DRN-3414672
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain about their insurer, Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
(LV). Their complaint is about repairs carried out under their home insurance policy failing 
after two years.
Reference to LV includes their agents who administer the policy and assess claims. 
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S had a home insurance policy under which repairs were carried out in 2018 
to a damaged brick gatepost at their property by a contractor (C) appointed by LV. At the 
time the damage was thought to have been caused by an impact (from a vehicle) to either 
the gatepost or the gate itself. However, in 2020 the repair failed. C sent a surveyor to 
inspect the damage. Mr S and Mrs S say that the surveyor told them that the wrong type of 
repair had been carried out, and that they were told by C they would rectify the problem as 
the repair was covered by a guarantee.
 
However, Mr S and Mrs S were then told by C that they didnt think the repair was faulty and 
that the new problem was a failure in the brickwork. This was due to wear and tear resulting 
from the gate attached to the gatepost affecting the bottom hinge when it was opened and 
then closed (particularly when the gate was saturated by rain). C also said the original 
design of the gate was also a factor (a larger, more robust hinge system should have been 
installed). Based on this, C said they wouldnt rectify the problem.
Unhappy at Cs decision, Mr S and Mrs S complained to LV, who didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response, they said when repairs were carried out C in 2018, there 
was an underlying issue with the footings of the gatepost, unrelated to the incident that 
caused the damage. Cs view was that the problem that had now arisen with the gatepost 
wasnt related to their repair in 2018, but the underlying issue with the footings. As such, the 
current problem wasnt covered under Cs guarantee (or as poor workmanship). In Cs view 
the current damage would have occurred gradually over time and as such wouldnt be 
covered under Mr S and Mrs Ss policy. But LV apologised for the delay in C telling Mr S and 
Mrs S of their decision and paid £100 in compensation.
Mr S and Mrs S then complained to this service. They were unhappy at the repair failing 
within two years of it being carried out, despite being under guarantee. And that LV wouldnt 
re-do the repair. Mr S and Mrs S were also unhappy that, having made a claim and having 
the repair carried out in 2018, they suffered financially through having to pay an excess of 
£100 under the claim and then subsequently had to pay higher premiums for the policy. 
They asked that LV carry out the repair properly.
Our investigator concluded LV didnt need to take any action. She thought Cs conclusions 
on the cause of the problem being wear and tear and the design of the gate and hinge were 
persuasive. She also noted evidence from the time of the original repair indicating the 
foundation of the gatepost wasnt adequate for the loading that the gatepost was bearing 
from the gate (and that it was recommended that a lighter gate be fitted to reduce the load). 
She concluded it was fair for LV to decide not to carry out repairs and to rely on Cs report, 
as the cause of the damage wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They said LV carried out the repair, it was guaranteed and so they 
should carry out the repairs now. They also thought the method of repair was at fault (sub-
optimal) and the issue about the foundations of the gatepost was only raised after it had 
been repaired and work was carried out on the footings (the foundations) of the gatepost at 
the time of the original repair. They also felt C (and the contractor that carried out the repair) 
werent independent. Nor was it reasonable for C to suggest their original assessment in 
2018 may have been an incorrect diagnosis of the underlying cause of the damage. Mr S 
and Mrs S also pointed out there hadnt been any problems with the operation of the gate 
and gatepost for over ten years before the damage in 2018.
In my findings I considered both the original views, information and evidence from LV and 
from Mr S and Mrs S (together with the additional points they made in response to the 
investigators view). I concluded it wasnt unreasonable for C to re-consider the cause of the 
damage in 2018, and it was reasonable for LV to rely on Cs report to decline the 2020 claim.
 
I also concluded it was reasonable for LV to rely on the work of professionals, including C. 
While Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with Cs conclusions, they could have commissioned their 
own expert to report on the likely cause of the damage in 2020. On the point about the repair 
being sub-optimal (as Mr S and Mrs S contended) I concluded the repair was proposed 
given the restricted access to the tower. Also, there wasnt any evidence to support the view 
it was sub-optimal.
I also concluded that the cause of the damage in 2020 was more likely to have been caused 
by the wear and tear impact of the gate, combined with the hinge not being sufficient to bear 
the weight of the gate. I wasnt persuaded that the nature of the damage indicated an issue 
with the foundations, the brickwork or the method of repair in 2018.
On the guarantee point, I said I hadnt seen direct evidence about the terms of any 
guarantee, although there was some indication it may have been for 12 months (so the 2020 
damage wouldnt have been covered as the guarantee would have expired). But given my 
conclusion about the likely cause of the damage, this wouldnt be a critical point.
As I had considered additional points and reached further conclusions whilst still agreeing 
with the investigators view, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the 
opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My role here is to decide whether LV has acted fairly towards Mr S and Mrs S.
The key issue in Mr S and Mrs Ss complaint is whether the damage to the gatepost in 2020 
was a result of a faulty repair carried out in 2018 (as Mr S and Mrs S maintain). Or, as LV 
maintain (based on Cs report) that the damage in 2020 was the result of wear and tear 
caused by (a combination of) the operation of the gate (particularly when saturated by rain) 
affecting the bottom hinge, together with the design of the gatepost and gate (and the hinge 
not being robust enough to bear the load of the gate.
Mr S and Mrs S also raise issues about, firstly, the method of repair in 2018 (they say it was 
sub optimal). Secondly, that C (and the contractor) arent independent (of LV). Thirdly, that the repair was guaranteed, so the repair of the damage now should be covered under that 
guarantee. Ive considered each of these issues in turn.
On the main issue, Ive considered what Mr S and Mrs S have said, as well as what LV and 
C have said. At the time of the damage in 2018 the cause of the damage was considered 
due to an impact (perhaps from a vehicle reversing into the gatepost (or the gate). While 
there were no witnesses to evidence this, the claim was accepted on this basis. Following 
the damage in 2020, it was considered by C and the conclusion of their report was that the 
damage was due to wear and tear resulting from the gate affecting the bottom hinge when it 
was opened and then closed. C also said the original design of the gate was also a factor (a 
larger, more robust hinge system should have been installed). The report also states that the 
original cause of damage (impact) may have been a misdiagnosis.
Mr S and Mrs S say that it isnt reasonable for C to now question the 2018 damage. Having 
thought about this, I dont agree. Its not unreasonable to consider the issue afresh in the 
light of what (from looking at the photographs of the damage in both years) looks to be 
similar damage on both occasions. Ive not seen any suggestion that the damage in 2020 
was the result of another impact. Cs report refers to their opinion about wear and tear and 
what is described as the fulcrum effect, which is the force exerted by the gate on the hinge 
(and therefor the gatepost by its operation). In the context of the other points that Ill come on 
to consider, I dont think its unreasonable for LV to rely on Cs professional opinion when 
declining the 2020 claim.
On this point, Ive also considered what Mr S and Mrs S say about C (and their contractor) 
not being independent. Im not persuaded by this argument, as LV are entitled to rely on the 
report of professionals and their opinions. While Mr S and Mrs S disagree, they could have 
commissioned their own independent expert to assess the cause of the damage and (if it 
supported their view) provide it to LV to consider. 
Coming back to the cause of the damage in 2020, Ive also considered Mr S and Mrs Ss 
view that the repair was sub optimal as it didnt involve the re-building of the gatepost, as 
the specification of the work set out. Ive looked at the specification, and an option is given to 
use a jig to re-align the tower (the gatepost was of brick construction) with load-bearing 
bricks removed and replaced. The option was, as I understand it, put forward given the 
restricted access to the tower. I would have expected C to have provided this option as a 
robust solution in the circumstances to meet the overall scope of the work (to re-build the 
tower). Mr S and Mrs S say it had to be re-done a couple of times, but theres no indication 
of further problems until the subsequent issue two years later. Mr S and Mrs S havent 
provided any evidence to support their view that the method of repair was sub optimal so 
Im not persuaded that its the case.
 
Mr S and Mrs S also say that the gate worked fine for over ten years up to the damage in 
2018, so the damage after two years supports their view that the repair in 2018 was faulty. 
Im not persuaded by this argument. In thinking about this point, Ive also considered the 
issue about the foundations of the tower. Theres an email from the contractor who carried 
out the repair in 2018 that states:
We have come across an underlying issue with the foundation. Its not adequate for 
the load bearing pier [tower] you currently have. He has dug and underpinned [the] 
pier to give the structure some stability. You need to just be aware of this moving 
forward, there is clear impact damage here but is an advisory, a lighter gate will 
cause you less problems in the future as its just taken 3 men to lift the current one.
Mr S and Mrs S say that they had work carried out subsequently on the foundations. But 
looking at the damage in 2020, the photographs dont appear to show an issue with the foundations (the tower hasnt toppled over). Rather the hinge has come away from the tower 
at the point where it is attached to the tower. Taking this with the comment about a lighter 
gate likely to cause fewer problems, together with the points above, then on the balance of 
probabilities Im persuaded by Cs view that the cause of the damage in 2020 is more likely 
to have been caused by the wear and tear impact of the gate, combined with the hinge not 
being sufficient to bear the weight of the gate. Im not persuaded that the nature of the 
damage indicates an issue with the foundations, the [quality of} brickwork or the method of 
repair in 2018.
The third issue raised by Mr S and Mrs S was that the 2018 repair was guaranteed, so the 
damage in 2020 would be covered by the guarantee. C maintain that the issue in 2020 
wasnt due to a failure of the brickwork carried out in 2018, but the wear and tear (alongside 
the fulcrum effect) from the operation of the gate. Ive not seen any direct evidence about 
the terms of any guarantee, although there is a reference in LVs case notes that suggests 
the guarantee would have been for 12 months (so the 2020 damage wouldnt have been 
covered as the guarantee would have expired). But given my conclusion about the likely 
cause of the damage, this wouldnt be a critical point.
Taking all these points together, Ive concluded that LV acted fairly and reasonably in 
declining Mr S and Mrs Ss claim for the damage in 2020.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision not to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss 
complaint.
LV didnt respond by the date requested.
Mr S and Mrs S responded with several points. Id want to reassure Mr S and Mrs S that Ive 
considered carefully all the points theyve raised in coming to a final decision. In doing this, 
Ive concentrated on what I think are their main points. 
Firstly, that it hadnt been suggested previously that they should commission their own 
independent report (on the cause of the damage in 2020). They were also concerned that 
the absence of such a report would be seen negatively when considering their complaint to 
this service.
Secondly, that theyd never suggested that the 2020 damage was due to an impact, as 
theyd always maintained it was due to aa failure of the 2018 repair. Also, they were certain 
that the 2018 damage was caused by an impact, particularly given the location of the gate 
on a small turning circle of a cul-de-sac adjacent to woodland used heavily by dog walkers. 
This made it extremely likely that the damage was caused by an impact (from a vehicle 
manoeuvring in the turning circle). They also provided a copy of an email from C at the time 
of the 2018 claim that referred to clear impact damage. 
Thirdly, they maintained their view that the repair was sub-optimal was shown by the 
subsequent failure in 2020. They also said Cs surveyor told them when initially inspecting 
the damage in 2020 that the 2018 repair shouldnt have been carried out in the way it had 
been, and this was supported by notes theyd made at the time (copies of which they 
provided). That was contradicted by Cs subsequent report, which they felt meant C had 
changed their story.
Fourthly, on the guarantee, Mr S and Mrs S said theyd been told by C in a telephone call 
that it was for two years (so would have been in place at the time of the 2020 damage).What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether LV have acted fairly towards Mr S and Mrs S.
Ive considered each of Mr S and Mrs Ss points in turn. On the first point, I made the 
comment that Mr S and Mrs S could have obtained their own independent expert report in 
the context of considering their point that C werent independent. I concluded it wasnt 
unreasonable for LV to rely on an expert report (from C), so because Mr S and Mrs S 
disagreed with that report, they could (not should) have obtained their own report to support 
their view. Id want to reassure Mr S and Mrs S that I havent considered the absence of 
such an additional report negatively when considering their complaint. My role is to consider 
all the information and evidence available in a case, and to use that to form conclusions on 
what is fair and reasonable.
On the second point, I made the point about there being no suggestion that the 2020 
damage was due to an impact in the context of my observation that (from looking at the 
photographs of the damage in both years) there looks to be similar damage on both 
occasions. That might lead to the possibility the cause of the damage was similar on both 
occasions. Which is why I made the point Id seen no suggestion that the 2020 damage was 
due to impact. That being the case, then either the cause of damage was different (if the 
2018 damage was caused by impact) or the cause was similar (but not impact).
 
I then went on to consider whether, on the balance of probabilities from the information and 
evidence available, LV had acted fairly and reasonably when declining the 2020 claim for the 
reasons set out in Cs report. I concluded they had, but this wasnt dependent on whether 
the cause of damage in 2018 was impact or some other factor. It was based on considering 
the views of Mr S and Mrs S (that the repair had failed) and of LV (that it was due to the 
factors set out in Cs report). Together with the other information and evidence available, I 
concluded that the cause of the damage in 2020 is more likely to have been caused by the 
wear and tear impact of the gate, combined with the hinge not being sufficient to bear the 
weight of the gate. I wasnt persuaded that the nature of the damage indicates an issue with 
the foundations, the [quality of] brickwork or the method of repair in 2018. This conclusion 
isnt affected by the 2018 damage being impact-related, so I havent changed my view.
On the third point, Mr S and Mrs S refer to comments made by C on an initial visit (and their 
notes). Ive considered this point carefully. I accept there may have been differing views on 
what would have been other options to repair the damage in 2018. But the question is 
whether the damage in 2020 was a result of the 2018 repair failing (or being sub-optimal) or 
due to other factors. Thats what I considered, for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision. For example, the points about the foundations, the advisory about a lighter gate 
and the hinge not being sufficient to bear the weight of the gate. I considered all those points 
together when reaching the conclusion set out above. Having considered the points again in 
the light of Mr S and Mrs Ss further point, Im still persuaded that the conclusion I reached in 
my provisional decision is appropriate.
On the fourth point, I can see that there is also comment in LVs case notes about Mr S and 
Mrs S being told (as theyve said) that the guarantee being two years. However, theres 
subsequent comment that its for 12 months. However, Id already considered the impact of 
the issue of the guarantee, when I said that given my conclusion about the likely cause of 
the damage, this wouldnt be a critical point. So, I havent changed my view on this point.Taking all these points together, I havent changed my view of this complaint, and my final 
decision remains the same, for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr S and Mrs Ss 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman