DRN-3848999
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Nationwide Building Society irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr M took out four personal loans with Nationwide between May 2014 and August 2016. 
Mr M says that he couldnt afford the credit and that if Nationwide had done proportionate 
checks on his financial situation it would have realised he couldnt pay back the loans in a 
sustainable way.
 
Nationwide says it did all the necessary checks before it lent to Mr M each time and that it 
acted appropriately and fairly.
Our adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. Our adjudicator didnt 
consider Nationwide did reasonable checks each time Mr M applied for a loan, but he 
couldnt establish what information Nationwide might have seen if it had done better checks.
The adjudicator asked Mr M for copies of relevant bank statements and his credit file 
showing his credit history around the time of each loan application. Mr M supplied one set of 
bank statements and this credit file did not cover the relevant dates. So our adjudicator 
concluded that he could not safely say if Nationwide had done more checks it would have 
seen information which would have indicated it shouldnt have provided the loans to Mr M.
Mr M did not agree, although he didnt explain why he disagreed. The complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ms complaint.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Mr Ms income and 
expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending 
itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable.
Nationwide has said that is checked Mr Ms payslips, his credit file and made an assessment 
of his household expenditure. I havent seen evidence of the results of these checks, so I 
dont know exactly what Nationwide would have seen and I cant safely say Nationwide 
obtained enough information about Mr Ms circumstances at the time to make a fair lending 
decision.
We asked Mr M to provide his bank statements from around the time each loan was granted 
and for a copy of his credit file which showed the period before the loans were taken. Mr M 
was able to provide some bank statements. But they were only from one account when hed 
told us he had at least two accounts. The bank statements did not show any regular financial 
commitments like rent or utility bills and seemed to be used almost exclusively for gambling 
transactions. I can see that Mr M regularly transferred money to and from another bank 
account. So I dont think these bank statements show a full picture of Mr Ms financial 
circumstances at the time. 
This might not have mattered if Mr M had been able to provide a copy of his credit file from 
around the time of each loan. Mr M told this service that he had a lot of payday loans and he 
was in financial difficulty which ought to have been recorded on his credit file and should 
have alerted Nationwide to the possibility he would find it difficult to sustainably repay the 
loans in question. Unfortunately, Mr M was only able to provide his credit file from shortly 
after the last loan was taken out. So, I dont know what Nationwide would have seen if it did 
more checks.
For this reason, I dont have enough information to satisfy me that had Nationwide 
completed proportionate checks that it would have seen anything which might have made it 
act differently and not provide the loans. And I cant say that Mr M lost out as a result of 
anything Nationwide might have done wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint, so it follows that Nationwide Building Society doesnt have 
to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman