DRN-2401169
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what HSBC Bank PLC (HSBC) has said and offered in compensation 
relating to his complaint about the mis-sale of payment protection insurance (PPI) policies 
related to two loans. 
What happened
Mr S wanted to borrow £6,000 to buy a classic car in 1991. He spoke to HSBC and took out 
2 loans, each for £3,000. One loan was a personal loan to run over three years and the other 
was a flexiloan. Mr S says he was mis-sold PPI with both loans. 
HSBC eventually agreed he was mis-sold PPI with the flexiloan. However, it said it couldnt 
find evidence of the second loan or any PPI taken out with it on its system. It originally 
offered and paid compensation of £299.75 to settle the complaint for the mis-sold PPI with 
the flexiloan. This was based on some of the evidence provided by Mr S of the actual 
premiums paid for the PPI a few months in 1991 and 1992.
Mr S was unhappy with what HSBC had said and offered, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. 
After we looked at the case HSBC reviewed its offer of compensation for the flexiloan and 
made a new offer of £5,546.48. HSBC then did a further recalculation using the actual data 
that Mr S had provided and said this offer worked out around £2,000 less than its offer of 
£5,546.48. But it agreed to honour the higher offer. It still however still said it did not accept 
the evidence available showed a further loan with PPI was most likely taken out by Mr S.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in October 2020. Mr S has responded 
indicating he has nothing further to add. HSBC has also said in response to that provisional 
decision it had nothing further to say.
The provisional decision asked HSBC to provide some additional information about 
calculating how much the PPI may have cost on the £3,000 personal loan. However, despite 
a further request for this information, it has not provided any comment or further information 
about this calculation as requested. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S told us he wanted to borrow £6,000 to buy a classic car and spoke to HSBC and based 
on its advice he took out a personal loan for 36 months for £3,000 and also a flexiloan for 
£3,000. Mr S has provided some old bank statements from 1991 and 1992 which had 
information about the flexiloan and also about a personal loan. There was also some 
correspondence from 2005 about the flexiloan.
HSBC eventually agreed to uphold the complaint that PPI was mis-sold with the flexiloan. It 
did not however agree Mr S had also taken out a personal loan with a PPI policy that was 
also mis-sold. 
In my provisional decision I set out in some detail the full background and the reasons why I 
thought it most likely Mr S did take out two loans with HSBC and both had PPI policies 
attached that were mis-sold. 
I referred to the information HSBC initially provided about its research into Mr Ss complaint 
that included the statement: -
We have carried out an extensive search  of all our live and archived systems to locate 
any relevant information in order to trace you and to confirm whether we can identify whether 
you ever purchased a PPl policy from us. These searches have included confirmation of 
whether you have ever obtained credit from us or entered into a credit agreement where we 
also sold PPl. Our completed searches found no evidence to confirm Payment Protection 
Insurance was attached to any products held with HSBC.
This indicated that HSBC could find no PPI at all was sold to Mrs S. But Mr S provided to 
HSBC some old bank statements from 1991 and 1992 and also some correspondence from 
2005. This correspondence in 2005 related to the flexiloan only. The bank statements 
showed two loan payments being taken on 23rd day of the month, and also an insurance 
payment being taken on that same date each month. The insurance payment had the same 
reference as one of the loan payments. 
Having seen these statements HSBC then confirmed the loan with the same reference as 
the insurance was a flexiloan and the insurance payment was PPI associated with that loan. 
And it also says this flexiloan was active from 23 April 1991 to 27 May 2014. However, it said 
it still could not find another loan and PPI.
In June 2019 HSBC wrote to Mr S saying it was upholding that the PPI with the flexiloan 
taken out in 1991 was mis-sold and it offered him £299.75 in compensation to settle his 
complaint. But HSBC said it could not trace another loan with PPI.
The flexiloan and PPI
When HSBC first calculated the compensation due for the mis-sold PPI with the flexilon it did 
not take into account any estimated amounts for the times when there was no clear evidence 
as to what may have been paid for the PPI. It later did make some estimates, but also did 
not seem to accurately use the actual data that was available. 
It then did take a more reasonable approach, using most of the actual data available and this 
resulted in an offer of £5,546.48 in compensation. However, there were still some 
discrepancies in that it used some estimated premium amounts when the actual premium 
amounts were known. When asked to recalculate using all the known data amounts HSBC 
said this reduced its calculated offer by around £2,000.
I identified in my provisional decision that the calculations provided indicated there were 
some discrepancies in this calculation also. I did ask for clarification on the amounts used 
and for explanations of the discrepancies, but HSBC has not provided any response, despite 
a reminder about this after the provisional decision had been received. 
My concerns were that the calculation information provided by HSBC indicated there were 
no premiums charged from January 2000 to November 2004. However, HSBC had indicated 
it only held full electronic data from 2001 onwards. So it was unclear how HSBC could say no premiums were charged from January 2000 when it said didnt hold full data until a year 
later. 
It was also unclear why HSBC did not use the first known premium after the electronic data 
starts, that is £20.95, as the starting point for the reducing amount from the date immediately 
before the actual data starts  that is for the premium paid in December 2000. HSBC has 
used the amount of £17.20 as the first estimated premium and it has provided no 
explanation as to why it has used this figure. 
Using the reducing straight-line approach HSBC has taken, it is normal to use the first or 
nearest known premium, or an average of the known premiums for the months known, which 
here is the four months in 2004 and 2005, as the starting figure for the reducing estimate. 
The average of the four months of known premiums in this period would be £20.95.
As HSBC has failed to provide any explanations for the approach it took in its calculation, I 
have had an approximate calculation undertaken. Using the premium of £20.95 from 
December 2001, and reduced backwards, produced an amount of compensation of between 
£4,500 and £5,000. So this is still less than the actual offer it did make and said it would 
honour of £5,546.48. 
Therefore, I think this amount is fair compensation for the PPI policy sold with the flexiloan. 
The personal loan for £3,000and PPI
As indicated in some detail in my provisional decision, although HSBC said it couldnt trace a 
personal loan and PPI, its records from the time are very limited and it originally told Mr S it 
could trace no PPI in his name at all. It was only based on the evidence he presented that 
HSBC accepted he had the flexiloan with a PPI policy. 
Based on the evidence and testimony of Mr S, I said in my provisional decision I thought he 
had taken out a personal loan with HSBC as well as the flexiloan and it was most likely he 
also took out a PPI policy with that personal loan. This policy on a personal loan would have 
been paid for by a single premium that was added to the amount he borrowed so the 
payment would have been collected as one repayment amount to his loan, with no separate 
payment for the policy. 
Mr S also provided some testimony about his circumstances at the time in relation to his 
employment. This was plausible and indicated he was guaranteed a particular enhancement 
in his work for three years. Therefore, it was reasonable to assume he would take out the 
personal loan for the same period of 36 months as he recalls 
I noted what HSBC said about this not being a loan it made as it would have a loan 
reference if it was. However I think at the time, almost 30 years ago, it would be most likely 
that if paid to another business the payment would not be described as a personal loan for 
Mr S, but would have needed a loan reference as HSBC would need to have known a 
reference to make the payment of the direct debit to another business. But if Mr S was 
paying from his current account with HSBC, to a loan account taken out with HSBC, then it is 
more likely it could be simply linked with his name to a personal loan, as the direct debit in 
this case would be an internal transfer within HSBC between accounts.
Also, as both the flexiloan payment and the personal loan repayment started on the same 
date and were taken on the exact same date each month, it would seem most likely that they 
would have been taken out with HSBC at the same time, as Mr S has said, rather than Mr S 
go to one business for one loan and to another for the second. Taking all the evidence into account, and Mr S testimony and evidence, in addition to the 
limited and sometimes conflicting information HSBC has been able to provide, I think `it is 
more likely than not that Mr S took out this second loan with HSBC. And as he was sold PPI 
with the flexiloan, taken out at the same time to cover some of the cost of the same 
purchase, I think it most likely he was also sold PPI with the personal loan. The PPI with the 
personal loan being a single premium PPI policy, the cost of which was borrowed by Mr S. 
As HSBC has upheld the PPI was mis-sold with the flexiloan, and the same circumstances 
would have applied to Mr S for the sale of the PPI with the personal loan, I think it most likely 
he was mis-sold this PPI also. Therefore, HSBC need to pay him compensation for this mis-
sale of the PPI with his personal loan. 
The personal loan repayment was £127.42 each month as shown on the bank statement. 
This means that over 36 months Mr S would have repaid in total around £4,587.12 to repay 
his loan. That amount would have included a small amount for the PPI as well as interest on 
the loan. 
I asked HSBC in my provisional decision to provide either an average offer or a calculation 
for the mis-sold PPI with the loan of £3,000. However, it has not provided any response 
about this or any figures. 
Therefore, I have had an estimate done for the possible PPI cost carried out, based on 
information we have about other cases for loans with single premium policies. An average 
cost of the PPI premium plus loan rate interest from this period in time would be around 
£515 that Mr S paid for the PPI. 
In addition, compensatory interest must be paid for all the time Mr S has been out of pocket, 
this is at the rate of 15% until April 1993 and 8% after that, to the date of settlement. 
Assuming this to be paid by the end of January 2021 the calculation indicates the total 
amount of compensation including compensatory interest may be around £1,750.
To ensure Mr S is not out of pocket I am therefore making a lump sum award of £1,900 as 
the compensation due to Mr S for the mis-sold PPI with his personal loan. This amount to 
take into account the costs of the PPI, compensatory interest for any time he was out of 
pocket and any compensation for the trouble and upset he has been put to in bringing his 
complaint. 
Putting things right
Based on all the evidence presented I am satisfied that compensation of £5,546.48 is fair for 
the mis-sold PPI with the flexiloan. 
I am also satisfied that Mr S did take out a personal loan with PPI, at the same time as he 
took out the flexiloan, with HSBC. For the same reasons the PPI sold with the flexiloan was 
found to be mis-sold by HSBC, I think the PPI sold with the personal loan was most likely 
mis-sold. As HSBC has failed to provide an offer or indication of the compensation for this 
PPI, I have estimated that £1,900 would be fair compensation in total for the PPI mis-sold 
with the personal loan.
Therefore, the total compensation due to be paid to Mr S for both mis-sold PPI policies is 
£7,446.48. If any payment has already been made by HSBC to Mr S then this can be 
deducted from this total compensation amount.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive set out above, I am directing that the compensation in total of £7,446.48 
should be paid by HSBC Bank PLC to Mr S for the mis-sold PPI policies with his flexiloan 
and with his personal loan. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman