DRN-3932907
The complaint
Mr H and Miss S have complained that Skipton Building Society (Skipton) have given them 
unclear information regarding the tax payable on an investment bond, which they are 
trustees of. 
What happened
In August 2017, Mr H and Miss S invested approximately £70,000 through Skipton into Old 
Mutual (now Quilter) investment bonds. This was done through two discretionary gift trusts, 
with Mr H and Miss S as the trustees. 
In January 2022, they received two contract notes showing units sold to pay a tax liability 
referred to as a life fund tax charge. Mr H and Miss S complained to Skipton, they said that 
they didnt know what this charge was, why any tax had been due and what any future 
liability was. 
Skipton responded across April to June 2022. They explained that they had been waiting on 
clarification from Quilter who manage the investments. They stated that the charge was not 
new but that the communication was an attempt to explain how it had been calculated. 
Mr H and Miss S were unhappy with the response and brought their complaint to our service 
for an independent review. An investigator looked into it but she felt Skipton had done 
enough to make the charge clear. 
Mr H and Miss S remained unhappy. Amongst other concerns, they said that they hadnt 
been given the correct information regarding the liability and were unsure if it had been 
calculated correctly. 
As no agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator that Skipton have done enough here. Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly, I think it is important to note that it is the provider that is responsible for the charges 
and administration of the investments and it was them whose letter prompted concerns. 
However, as the advisor, Skipton have a responsibility to make this information clear to you 
and I think they have acted fairly here. 
I would like to empathise with Mr H and Miss S. Skipton and the provider both acknowledge 
that the contract notes sent in January 2022 caused confusion and didnt clearly explain the 
life fund tax charge that had been taken. 
Skipton have explained the charge now, through clarification from the provider, and I am 
satisfied they have done what they can to make this clear. Onshore investment bond income 
is taxed at source at the basic rate of 20%. Skipton have explained that this is not new, was 
paid previously but that moves have been made to ensure charges are explicit and so 
Quilters contract note specified this charge. Whereas previously a customer would have 
only seen a value after the tax had been collected at source. I am satisfied with the 
explanation given and this shouldnt be confused with tax liability arising from chargeable 
gains. 
Mr H and Miss S have also raised concerns about the amount of the charge. However, from 
the information provided to me about what has been deducted and paid, I havent seen 
anything to conclude that an error has been made. Further, Skipton arent responsible for the 
amount paid. 
Mr H and Miss S have raised concerns about the experience and role of the financial 
advisor. However, these have been raised subsequently and I dont believe Skipton have 
had sufficient opportunity to address them, prior to any potential referral to our service.
In summary, I think Skipton have acted fairly in attempting to explain the tax charge applied 
by the provider and the communications about it. hey arent responsible for the amount 
charged as they dont administer the bonds. 
My final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman