DRN-3361772
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) has failed to provide a 
replacement manufacturers guarantee for the roof tiles it had fitted following a claim on a 
Buildmark building warranty. 
What happened
Mr F brings this complaint on behalf of himself and his wife so Ill refer to him throughout.
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties so Ive provided a summary of 
whats happened.
Mr F owns a property that had the benefit of a Buildmark building warranty from 
NHBC.
Within the first two years of the warranty, Mr F reported a number of issues with the 
property to NHBC. It arranged an inspection and agreed some work was required, 
including the replacement of roof tiles.
The original builder had become insolvent so NHBC took over the builders 
responsibilities and replaced the roof tiles. These came with a 30-year guarantee 
from the manufacturer, Company A.
Some years later in 2021, Mr F had a query about how he could make a claim on the 
guarantee if this was needed in the future. He tried to contact Company A but it had 
been taken over by another company, Company B. 
Company B didnt recognise the guarantee issued by Company A but provided Mr F 
with details of its guarantee, which replaced Company As but Mr F wasnt happy as 
the terms differed.
Mr F contacted NHBC and said he felt it had a responsibility for providing a 
replacement guarantee, on the same terms, as it had arranged for the work to be 
undertaken. NHBC said this was outside the scope of the cover provided under the 
warranty and it declined to help further.
Mr F raised the complaint with this Service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it and said 
the warranty didnt require NHBC to offer replacement manufacturers guarantees 
under the terms of the cover.
Mr F disagreed and asked an Ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, Mr F has explained theres currently no problem with the tiles, he just 
wants to ensure theres a guarantee in place in case he needs it in the future.
Like most building warranties, the Buildmark policy doesnt provide cover for 
everything that might happen to a new build property. The extent of the cover is 
detailed in the policy terms and Im unlikely to direct NHBC to do something its not 
required to do under those terms.
The claim was made under Section 2 of the policy and NHBC took over the work as 
the original developer was insolvent. So, this is the relevant section of cover.
Having considered the terms related to this section, Ive found nothing to show 
theres cover for providing replacement manufacturers guarantees for materials 
when NHBC arranges for work to be undertaken. 
Ive then gone on to consider if it would be fair and reasonable to direct NHBC to 
undertake further action, notwithstanding the lack of cover under the warranty. 
Mr F says he was assured by the tile manufacturers regional manager the warranty 
for the tiles was for 30 years and thats why he chose them. And he says NHBCs 
representative also passed on this information to him and it has responsibility to put 
in place a replacement guarantee.
This Service takes the view that when repairs are undertaken in connection with a 
claim on a policy, the policy provider must ensure the repairs are effective and 
lasting. In this case, I understand Mr F was provided with a six-year guarantee for the 
works NHBC undertook.
But Im not persuaded, in passing on the factual information about the guarantee or 
using the tiles in the repairs, it would be fair or reasonable for NHBC to take on the 
responsibility for a third partys extended guarantee. I say this as there would be the 
potential it would be taking on a liability of indeterminate length or monetary value, 
over which it has no control or a reasonable way of foreseeing.
I recognise theres some disagreement about who chose the tiles, but this doesnt 
change the policy terms or anything Ive outlined above. So, it doesnt change my 
mind.
In summary, I wont be upholding the complaint or asking NHBC to do anymore
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman