DRN-4434071
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) has failed to offer her a new interest 
rate, or adequate support for her financial difficulties.
To settle the complaint, Ms B wants BOS to apologise for distress caused by wasting her 
time making futile telephone calls, for BOS to review its policies relating to disabled 
customers, for BOS to offer her a new mortgage interest rate product and for BOS to be 
sanctioned (and Ms B compensated) for its breaches of the Equality Act 2010 and the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Code of Conduct. 
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Ms B being identified. So for 
these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. 
If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I 
didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint. I will also mention at the outset 
that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt a regulator or a court. Therefore, although Ive 
noted what Ms B has said about what she considers to be breaches of the Equality Act 2010 
and regulatory breaches by BOS, it is not within my power to determine whether there has 
been a breach of legislation or regulations, or to punish or sanction BOS. My role is to 
determine what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Ms B has a mortgage with BOS taken out in 2002. It was originally a flexible mortgage, 
regulated under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 where borrowers had a credit limit and could 
draw down further advances as and when required without the need for a formal application. 
Ms B drew down five further advances, the last one being in September 2006. BOS no 
longer offers this type of mortgage, or allows additional drawdowns on existing mortgages. 
Pursuant to MCOB 1.2.21(3), since 21 March 2016 the mortgage has been subject to FCA 
regulations contained in the Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB) in relation to arrears-handling.
Ms B has been unable to work since 2008 after suffering a catastrophic trauma, and is 
reliant on benefits and on financial help from family members. The mortgage has been in 
and out of arrears since 2003, and is currently about £9,000 in arrears. Due to recent 
interest rate increases, the monthly repayment has increased significantly. The outstanding 
balance on the account is approximately £177,000.
Ms B complained to BOS  about a number of issues. Primarily, she was unhappy that BOS 
wasnt able to keep her account with a specialist team, which the bank said was to help 
customers through short-term difficulties. Because Ms Bs situation is long-term and 
apparently permanent, BOS said it wasnt able to look at short-term solutions to resolve the 
arrears position on the account, as these would not be viable.
Ms B was also unhappy that BOS hadnt offered her a new interest rate product. BOS 
explained that, in order to put Ms B on a new interest rate, an application would need to be 
made for a new product, and the arrears would need to be cleared. But based on what Ms B 
has said about her financial situation, there wasnt any available product that could be 
considered affordable.
BOS said that it had signposted Ms B to advice agencies and suggested she take 
independent financial advice. BOS said that if there was no affordable solution, as a last 
resort, it could take legal action, but would also discuss a sale of the property with Ms B.
Dissatisfied with BOSs response to the complaint, Ms B raised it with our service. An 
investigator looked at what had happened. In a detailed letter dated 29 September 2023 he 
explained why he didnt think BOS had acted unfairly. 
He explained that, as Ms Bs mortgage is on a closed book, no new rates are available for 
her specific mortgage. BOS could offer a new rate on a new product, but this would be 
subject to Ms B undergoing an affordability assessment and meeting lending criteria. He 
noted that one criterion was that there were no arrears, which was not the case here.
The investigator noted that Ms B was receiving financial help from family members, but he 
thought it was reasonable that BOS wouldnt take this into account when considering 
affordability. Overall, the investigator didnt think that arranging a new mortgage product and 
capitalising arrears would be the right solution, because it would increase Ms Bs debt, and 
potentially tie her into an early repayment charge (ERC). 
In relation to Ms Bs request for her account to be dealt with by a particular specialist team 
(CPT), the investigator wasnt able to agree that BOS should do this. That team was set up 
to deal with customers in short-term difficulties, whereas the team currently dealing with the 
account (CFA) was for long-term arrears situations. 
Whilst the investigator didnt think BOS was obliged to offer Ms B a new interest rate product 
or switch her account back to CPT, he did think that the bank should show a little more 
sensitivity in its dealings with Ms B, particularly in relation to instructing field agents.
Ms B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Ms B has made some detailed points. She says that the role of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is to put customers in the position they should be in if they had not 
been wronged by the bank, which therefore requires me to find in her favour, tell BOS that it 
is required to take ownership of its failures and negligence towards her and provide her with 
the protection to which she is entitled under the Equality Act 2010. 
Ms B says that it is discriminatory for BOS  or any other organisation, including the 
Financial Ombudsman Service  to rule that disabled customers with financial hardship can 
only be offered short-term support. Ms B says that it is imperative that BOS is not allowed to 
get away with failing to adhere to disability legislation which affords disabled customers 
rights which carry more weight than BOSs own policies, which amounts to making 
obscene profits and bonuses generated from the trauma and suffering of the most fragile, 
vulnerable and disabled within society.
Ms B concludes that it is entirely immoral, unethical and wholly unlawful for BOS to be 
permitted to implement and impose an internal policy that restricts the customer to a 
six-month window of being in the BOS specialist care team when such policy totally 
contradicts disability discrimination legislation and erodes the lawful rights of disabled 
customers.Ms B says that she is aware of other banks which have permitted their customers to remain 
in specialist care teams indefinitely, whilst only paying £50 a month, whereas her parents 
have been paying BOS £500 a month without fail.
Ms B says that her housing benefit was stopped in April 2018, and is unhappy that BOS 
agreed to payment arrangements which it knew were being financed by her parents, but at 
the same time refused to offer her a new interest rate.
In addition, Ms B says that BOS had a duty of care to inform her when her mortgage product 
became obsolete and signpost her to a suitable alternative. Ms B also disputes that BOS 
ever tried to return her calls.
Ms B wants BOS to be held to account for the way she has been treated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from what shes told us that Ms B has been through a very, very difficult time, and 
that her disabilities are permanent and extremely debilitating to an extent that I cannot 
imagine. They impact her life constantly, and I do not dispute for a second the trauma Ms B 
has been through and the effect of this on a daily basis. I have considerable sympathy for 
Ms B. However, I have to put aside my natural feelings of empathy and reach my decision 
on the basis of the evidence.
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes and systems, or how they operate generally; thats 
the role of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between 
businesses and their customers. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else, but in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service  published by the FCA and known as DISP  and the remit those 
rules give us.
We have no power to sanction, punish or fine businesses  thats the role of the FCA. I also 
cant tell BOS how to run its business  including the way it allocates staff to deal with 
short-term and long-term financial difficulties, or the policies it implements, in compliance 
with FCA regulations. I also cant tell BOS what products it is allowed to offer to customers, 
or prevent the bank from withdrawing products from the market that are no longer available 
or which have become obsolete. Those are matters that relate to BOSs general commercial 
operations, which fall outside the scope of our rules.
Nor do we have the authority to determine whether or not a business has breached 
legislation, broken the law, or is in breach of contract, and we dont award damages  all of 
those matters fall within the remit of the courts. 
So whilst Ive noted Ms Bs request that we sanction BOS for what she says are breaches of 
the Equality Act 2010 and FCA regulations, I dont have any power to do that. But what I can 
do is take relevant law and regulation into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of a complaint.I am explaining this because I would not want Ms B to think that I havent taken any notice of 
what shes told us. Ive read and considered everything she and BOS have sent us, but I 
have to work within the parameters of our rules and reach my decision accordingly. Im also 
not required to address each and every complaint point  particularly where, as Ive 
explained above, they relate to matters that are outside our remit. Instead Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the relevant issues in the complaint.
I am grateful to Ms B for providing the additional information I requested about whether or 
not she is in receipt of Support for Mortgage Interest (SMI) from the Department for Work & 
Pensions (DWP), and whether there are any second charges or charging orders against the 
property (Ms B says she believes not). It is important that I have all the relevant information 
in front of me.
Ms B has clarified that she did apply for SMI, but since April 2018 to date shes been 
passed from pillar to post, even more so during Covid between DWP & Royal Bank of 
Scotland & their admin when progressing such, or not as the case may be, leaving me stuck 
endlessly between BOS, DWP and RBS 
Ms B has explained that, as far as she is aware, the second charge holder wrote off the debt 
and has removed the charge.
BOS is required by the FCA to have policies in place to deal with customers in financial 
difficulties. The starting point is that lenders have a duty to treat all customers, but 
particularly those facing financial hardship, fairly. Balanced against that, one of the 
fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has the right to 
receive payment of the money owed to it. 
MCOB 13 sets out what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. 
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved within a few months. Short-term difficulties would include such things as temporary 
unemployment, or an illness or injury that temporarily impacted on the borrowers ability to 
work  but where those financial difficulties had a solution, such as a new job or a return to 
work.
For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such transferring a 
mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring interest for a period 
of time or capitalisation of arrears. Balanced against that is the lenders obligation to ensure 
that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
The mortgage account has been in arrears for some years, and the arrears are increasing, 
currently around £9,000. The mortgage is already interest-only, and has about four years left 
to run before the capital balance is due to be repaid. 
Ms B had previously been in receipt of SMI. I can see from the transaction history that the 
last payment from the DWP for SMI was in December 2018. BOSs contact notes record that 
the bank was told by Ms Bs mother in July 2018 that a formal complaint had been made to 
the DWP about the change to SMI. (In April 2018 SMI changed from being a benefit to a 
loan, secured by a charge over the property and repayable on sale of the property.)It wasnt until December 2020 that Ms B confirmed to BOS that shed applied for SMI and 
that it would be backdated. Ms B told BOS that she was unhappy that, if she had been in 
rented accommodation the DWP would pay most of the rent, but as she is a homeowner, it 
would be a loan. I note that BOS placed a hold on the account for 30 days at that point to 
enable Ms B to arrange for the DWP forms to be sent to BOS.
Ms B told BOS in March 2020 that she was still trying to arrange SMI and that this would be 
backdated. Another 30-day hold was put on the account. There is no other mention after that 
in the contact notes of Ms B telling BOS she was applying for SMI, and no further payments 
have been received from the DWP since December 2018. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for BOS to agree to payment arrangements when Ms B 
said that family members would be helping her with her repayments. But BOS cant take 
these payments into consideration when considering affordability for a new mortgage 
product. I can see why Ms B thinks this is unfair, but BOS  in line with other lenders  isnt 
able to treat ad hoc payments from family members as a source of income when looking at 
the affordability of a mortgage. 
Ms B wants BOS to pass her account back to the CPT. However, that team deals with 
short-term financial difficulties. The CPT is able to set up arrangements to help customers 
whose financial difficulties have a potential end date  for example, a period of 
unemployment where the customer then finds another job, or a short-term illness. 
Whilst initially BOS hoped that Ms Bs financial difficulties would be short-term  as it was 
anticipating that her claim for SMI would be processed and a backdated lump sum paid by 
the DWP  that hasnt been the case. Instead the arrears increased, and Ms B didnt appear 
to have any realistic prospect of clearing them and so it wasnt appropriate for the account to 
remain with the CPT because the bank needed to look at the overall situation on a more 
long-term basis.
Im satisfied BOS has thought about whether there is any long-term solution to Ms Bs 
financial difficulties. BOS says that capitalisation of arrears and transferring the mortgage 
onto a new product wouldnt be affordable. A new product would come with a product fee 
(which, if added to the balance, would accrue additional interest) and possibly an ERC. 
Ms B, on her current income, isnt able to meet BOSs affordability criteria for her existing 
balance, and so increasing it by capitalising arrears would make it even less affordable and 
put her in a worse, not better, position. 
Ms B says that BOS has discriminated against her and has breached the Equality Act 2010. 
As I said at the start, I dont have any power to determine whether or not BOS is in breach of 
the Act. But Ive taken into account the law, as well as regulation, guidance and good 
practice, to decide what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. The 
relevant law here is the Equality Act 2010, and Ms B specifically asked me to take into 
account the duty to make reasonable adjustments for persons with disabilities. 
The Act says that, in summary - where a provision, criterion or practice puts a person with a 
disability at a substantial disadvantage in comparison with persons who are not disabled, a 
service provider must take such steps as it is reasonable to have to take to avoid the 
disadvantage. 
The Act also says that a person with a protected characteristic  such as disability  
shouldnt be harassed. The Act defines harassment as unwanted conduct in relation to a 
protected characteristic that violates a persons dignity, or creates an intimidating, hostile, 
degrading, humiliating or offensive environment. There are, in law, other forms of harassment too  which dont relate specifically to the 
protected characteristics  and which, in summary, involve engaging in a course of conduct 
likely to cause alarm or distress.
Its not my role to make findings on matters of law, including whether or not BOS is in 
breach of obligations under the Act. But as I say, this is something I take into account in 
deciding whether its acted fairly.
I must also bear in mind the regulators principles for businesses, one of which says that a 
firm must ensure its communication with customers is clear, fair and not misleading. When a 
borrowers circumstances make communication through normal channels difficult, Id expect 
a lender, acting fairly, to adjust how they communicate - to take account of the borrowers 
needs.
Ms B says that the way the CFA has dealt with her is in breach of the Equality Act. I can see 
how upset Ms B has been about the way the CFA team dealt with her account. In particular, 
sending a field agent to the property, which wasnt appropriate given Ms Bs circumstances. 
Ms B says BOS has consistently failed to return her calls, but the banks contemporaneous 
call notes show that BOS left messages when it wasnt able to speak to Ms B. Those notes 
were made at the time of the events, and so Im satisfied I can rely on them as an accurate 
record of what happened. But I can see that there has been a breakdown in communication 
between BOS and Ms B at times, which Ms B has found distressing and frustrating.
Ms B has specific vulnerabilities (which I will not go into any detail about, due to the need to 
preserve Ms Bs anonymity). As a result, BOS needs to ensure that Ms B is treated with 
sensitivity and care in relation to communicating with her about the arrears. That doesnt 
mean, however, that BOS shouldnt try to contact Ms B to discuss the account, only that 
BOS needs to think about the most appropriate way of doing so, given Ms Bs quite specific 
circumstances. If there is a particular method of communication Ms B would prefer, she 
should let BOS know.
When deciding a complaint I have to be fair to both parties. That means that I have to take 
into consideration what is fair and reasonable in relation to BOS, not just Ms B. On the basis 
of the evidence before me, there doesnt appear to be any realistic prospect of Ms B either 
being able to pay off the arrears or to afford the monthly repayments on her current 
mortgage or to meet affordability criteria for any other mortgage product.
The Equality Act does not mean that Ms B should be treated more favourably than a 
customer who is not disabled. Therefore in relation to BOSs decision not to offer Ms B a 
new mortgage product on the ground of affordability, Im satisfied that Ms B is being treated 
the same as a non-disabled customer who does not meet affordability criteria.
Regrettably, Ms Bs situation is such that there is no basis on which she would meet 
affordability criteria for any product at all, even if BOS had a fee-free, ERC-free product. I 
fully appreciate that Ms Bs situation is not of her own making and that she is in the position 
she is in due to circumstances beyond her control. But BOS cannot offer a new mortgage 
where there is no basis on which that mortgage would be affordable. This would be in 
breach of BOSs regulatory obligations as a responsible lender.
Given Ms Bs situation, her options are, unfortunately, very limited. Looking at her overall 
financial circumstances, it seems to me that the arrears are likely to increase. I know this is 
not what Ms B wants to hear, but it would be remiss of me to give her false hope that the 
solution to this problem is that I order BOS to offer Ms B a new mortgage; that is something I 
simply cannot do in all the circumstances of this case.It appears to me that there will ultimately need to be a sale of the property, because there 
does not appear to be another option that is affordable or sustainable. As a last resort, if 
there is no prospect of repayment of the mortgage arrears, and no possibility that Ms B will 
be able to afford the mortgage going forward, BOS is entitled to take legal action to recover 
the outstanding debt. Given Ms Bs circumstances, this would have to be the very last resort, 
after all other options have been exhausted.
I think that BOS should give Ms B six months from the date of this decision before taking any 
legal action. That will give Ms B time to consider her options and put the property on the 
market if she decides to sell it to avoid BOS taking legal action. If by the end of six months 
there is no realistic prospect of the mortgage and arrears being repaid, and no evidence 
from solicitors that a sale is imminent, then BOS would be entitled to take further action to 
recover the debt. 
I think Ms B might also find it helpful to take some advice from a specialist debt advisory 
service such as Citizens Advice, StepChange or Shelter, or from an independent financial 
adviser.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms B was hoping for. I am truly sorry if my decision adds to her 
distress. But after considering everything she and BOS have said, Im unable to find that 
BOS has acted unfairly, for all the reasons given above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman