DRN-3338146
The complaint
Mr F complains about an annual fee charged on his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
with Curtis Banks. 
In short, he says Curtis Banks decision not to rebate some of the fee after he transferred his 
pension to a different provider is unfair and amounts to a financial penalty. 
To put things right, Mr F would like Curtis Banks to refund a proportionate amount of the fee. 
What happened
On 25 May 2021, Curtis Banks wrote to Mr Fs financial adviser to inform him that an 
outstanding invoice fee of £864 (raised on 1 May 2021) was due. It said that it would 
normally have been paid automatically, via a deduction from the account balance on Mr Fs 
SIPP, however, on this occasion there were insufficient funds. 
 
Mr Fs financial adviser wrote back asking for the fee to be written off because Mr F intended 
to transfer his SIPP elsewhere. But Curtis Banks refused as the invoice had already been 
raised. 
Mr Fs financial adviser exchanged further correspondence with Curtis Banks asking it to 
reconsider its options, but this didnt change its mind. Instead it referred to paragraph 14.4 
under the heading Transfer out of its terms and conditions concerning transfers, in support 
of its position. 
Paragraph 14.4 of the terms and conditions states:
 
Any annual fee already paid or due to be paid to us prior to a transfer out being
requested will not be rebated either in full or in part. This paragraph 14.4 will not apply
where the transfer is made in relation to paragraph 25.4 or paragraph 25.6.
Mr Fs adviser acknowledged the relevant paragraph but didnt think it was fair. The financial 
adviser in due course raised a complaint, but Curtis Banks didnt reply, so he referred the 
matter to our service.
  
In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 27 August 2021, Curtis Banks didnt uphold the 
complaint. It reiterated its position with regards to paragraph 14.4 of its terms and explained 
that the annual fee had already been charged on 1 May 2021, prior to receiving the request 
to transfer on 4 June 2021.  
Curtis Banks also explained that it didnt offer partial/pro-rata refunds. It also included the 
following notes:
We will not refund (in part or in full) any fees that have already been charged:
on payment of the total remaining fund through flexi-access drawdown or UFPLS; or
when a transfer out is initiated.    
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Mr F disputes the fairness of the terms and conditions and therefore the view will 
concentrate on this. 
The relevant terms and conditions are clear, fair, and unambiguous. Theres no 
reason to think that Mr F wouldnt have been given the terms and conditions when he 
opened the account.
Mr Fs SIPP account statement shows that the annual fee was collected in May every 
year, since 2016 pretty much. 
In this instance the annual fee was raised on 1 May 2021, before Curtis Banks 
learned of Mr Fs intentions to transfer via an email from his financial adviser on 25 
May 2021. Curtis Banks subsequently received a formal transfer request on 4 June 
2021, through the Origo transfer system. 
The annual fee was still due to be paid before the transfer request was made. So, Mr 
F wasnt entitled to any rebate of the fees. In the circumstances, hes unable to say 
that the terms and conditions are unfair. 
The terms and conditions are there so that the parties to the agreement know what 
the business can and cant generally do. Its a matter for the business how the 
business applies the terms and conditions. Its not something our service would 
generally get involved in. 
Hes seen nothing to suggest that the terms and conditions were in breach of the 
applicable laws and regulations. Our service doesnt have authority to get involved in 
a business commercial decision making. 
He can understand why Mr F would feel that being charged a fee for less than two 
months service is unfair. However, the timing of the decision to move was down to 
him. 
As a regulated business, Curtis Banks has an obligation to treat Mr F fairly, as set out 
under Principle 6 in the PRIN chapter of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
handbook. 
The obligation extends to all its customers and not just Mr F, so it wouldnt be fair to 
treat him differently. It also wouldnt be fair to expect other customers to shoulder the 
cost of his rebate. 
Curtis Banks says that it reasonably assumes that a plan holder, at the start of each 
plan year will require their services for the whole year, so it planned its finances and 
resources/needs accordingly.   
It isnt unreasonable for a business not to offer rebates. 
If Mr F and or his adviser had notified the business before the invoice was raised this 
situation wouldnt have arisen, and the business wouldve known that its services 
werent needed. 
Mr F disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
short, he said that Curtis Banks mightve delayed his application to transfer therefore 
rendering it outside of the time he wouldve been eligible to a refund. 
He also thought the investigator had missed the point of the complaint and his (the 
investigators) decision doesnt align with common sense that money would be taken for a 
service not provided  the ombudsman service is turning a blind eye to the injustice here.
Mr Fs financial adviser reiterated that the decision was unfair. He said in February 2022, the 
FCA reminded firms of their responsibility to comply with consumer protection legislation 
such as the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Credit Contracts 
Regulations 1999. In order to comply with the FCA Curtis Banks shouldnt retain excessive and disproportionate amounts, after a customer cancels their service. It isnt enough that the 
business consistently applied the terms to all its customers. Furthermore, Curtis Banks 
unwillingness to meet these requirements is also inconsistent with the principles relating to a 
customers interests and treating customers fairly.  
Curtis Banks disagreed that it had in any way contributed to any delay in respect of Mr Fs 
request. In summary, it said:
On 1 May 2021 Mr Fs annual fee  for £864  became due and an invoice was 
raised.
At 10:13am on 25 May 2021 it emailed Mr Fs financial adviser confirming the 
outstanding annual fees and that it couldnt be settled because there was insufficient 
balance. At 11:54am, Mr Fs financial adviser replied requesting that the fee wasnt 
settled as Mr F was transferring out. 
At 10:53am on 3 June 2021 it replied confirming that the outstanding invoice would 
apply. At 12:22pm Mr Fs financial adviser replied requesting that it didnt charge an 
annual fee. 
On 4 June 2021, the Origo transfer request was made. 
It wasnt informed of Mr Fs intention to transfer until after its annual fee became due. 
It didnt receive an appropriate instruction until one month after the fee had been 
invoiced. 
Ultimately, it has charged the fees in line with its terms and conditions.
The investigator having considered the additional points from Mr F and his financial adviser 
wasnt persuaded to change his mind. In summary, he didnt think that it was unreasonable 
for a business to rely on terms and conditions that had been agreed upon. The FCA 
announcement referred to, was in relation to consumer credit activities rather than operating 
personal pension schemes. Hes seen nothing to suggest the relevant terms werent 
followed. Businesses are entitled to set their own terms of business. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on balance, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same 
reasons. Im not going to uphold this complaint.
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr F and his financial adviser 
say, Im unable to safely say that Curtis Banks refusal to refund all or part of its annual fee 
was unreasonable. 
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Fs strength of feeling about this matter. He and his financial adviser have 
provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. 
However, I hope Mr F wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr F, and Curtis Banks, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
A business is entitled to set its own terms and conditions. I agree with the investigator that it 
sets out what a business can, and cant, generally do. A customer is entitled to agree with 
those conditions and proceed, or disagree, and go elsewhere. But if a customer chooses to 
go ahead, its reasonable to assume that theyre familiar with the conditions and are bound 
by them.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr F 
wouldve been supplied with the terms and conditions in good time, and that he wouldve 
agreed to them before going ahead with the service. So, in the circumstances I dont think 
its unreasonable for the business to rely on its terms and conditions, in refusing to refund 
the annual fees. Im mindful that the fees were raised long before Curtis Banks was notified 
of Mr Fs intention, and before any application to transfer was made  had there been 
sufficient funds it the account the money wouldve been taken automatically as the business 
has done so, since 2016. In other words, Im satisfied that Curtis Banks terms and 
conditions legitimately allow it to refuse to refund the annual fees. 
Despite what Mr F says, I note these fees are annual (one off fees) rather than 
monthly/pay-as-you-go, so there doesnt appear to be an obvious basis or mechanism by 
which the business can return part of the fees dependent on Mr Fs length of stay prior to his 
move. Based on what the business says, it seems the fees are due for the year, its then up 
to the investor, once the fees are paid, whether (or not) they remain with the business for 
that year. 
Im satisfied that the relevant paragraph which makes reasonably clear the business 
position was clearly displayed and easy to find within the terms and conditions under the 
heading Transfers out, on page 16 of 21. I agree with the investigator that the relevant 
terms and conditions were clear, fair, and unambiguous. 
I note the SIPP account statement shows that the fees were collected every year in May 
since 2016, so Mr F wouldve known or ought reasonably to have known, when the annual 
fees wouldve been taken out. In the circumstances it could be argued that it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr F and/or his adviser to have consulted the relevant paragraph before 
deciding to transfer and notify the business immediately. And if they failed to do this, its not 
something I can blame the business for.  
Just because Mr F decided to move his SIPP and/or notify the business shortly after the fee 
was raised, doesnt mean that the business has to refund all or part of its fees for that year. 
In other words, the timing of the move was down to Mr F and/or his adviser, and its not 
something I can hold the business responsible for. I note the business says that if hed 
decided and/or his financial adviser had notified the business sooner, before May 2021, this 
situation wouldnt have arisen. Whether or not thats correct, I cant say the business has 
behaved unreasonably by refusing to refund the funds taken legitimately.  
Curtis Banks probably has a discretion, but its a matter for the business how it exercises 
that discretion, its not something that I can get involved in. In other words, the business 
probably can decide to refund all of the fees if it chooses to do so, but I cant criticise it for 
not doing so. 
For the reasons set out above, in the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think its terms 
and conditions and/or its application of the rules is unreasonable. Consequently, on balance 
Im unable to say that Mr F has been treated unfairly. I appreciate Mr F will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give him what he wants.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman