DRN-3220672
The complaint
Ms W and Ms W complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has been unable to 
recover a payment made into an incorrect account.
What happened
Ms W says she made a payment of £265 in September 2020 to an account abroad which 
Halifax charged her £9.50. She says the payment didnt reach the intended account as she 
was given incorrect details. Ms W says she was told by Halifax that she would get her 
money back, but she hasnt received it. She says she wasnt given information about the 
request by Halifax and she had to contact it for updates. Ms W would like the money 
refunded as well as the fee.
Halifax says it sent the money in accordance with Ms Ws instructions and didnt make a 
mistake. It says it tried to recover the money, but the recipient bank hasnt replied to its 
requests. Halifax says it paid Ms W £27 for her call costs.
Ms W had brought her complaint to us and accepts there was a mistake in one of the 
account digits.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint and thought Halifax had correctly processed the 
payment in line with the instructions Ms W provided. The investigator thought Halifax had 
tried on four occasions from October 2020 to January 2021 to recover the money, but it 
couldnt be responsible for the recipient bank actions.
Ms W doesnt accept that view and says Halifax ought to have done far more to recover the 
money.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Ms W will be disappointed by my decision and how frustrated she must be that 
her money hasnt been recovered.
Im satisfied that Halifax correctly processed Ms Ws payment in accordance with her 
instructions. I appreciate there was a mistake with one of the account digits but that is not 
something I can fairly hold Halifax responsible for. Im satisfied that Halifax tried to recover 
the money back and it seems there was initially agreement by the recipient bank to do so. 
But I can also see that the money wasnt returned despite a number of requests by Halifax.
I appreciate Ms W says Halifax ought to have done far more. But I cant see what else it 
reasonably could have done in these circumstances and where the recipient bank stopped 
communicating with it. I am sure Ms W appreciates that even if the recipient bank had tried 
to recall the money there would have been no guarantee the money could have been 
returned. 
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax tried to assist Ms W and used its best endeavours to recover 
the money. I cant see what else it could have done and think that its attempts to recover the 
money was reasonable. Im satisfied that this brings an end to what we in trying to resolve 
this dispute informally can do. I appreciate what Ms W says about Halifaxs lack of 
communication with her and I would have thought that Halifax would have communicated 
with its customer in these circumstances and provided updates. But I hope Ms W 
appreciates that its not our role to tell a business how it communicates with its customers 
about such matters.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman