DRN-3352924
The complaint
Miss A complains about the quality of a used car that was supplied to her through a hire 
purchase agreement with Black Horse Limited (BHL).
What happened
In January 2019 Miss A acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with BHL. 
The car was registered in March 2013, which means it was about five years and ten months 
old and had travelled around 65,700 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the 
car was £23,101.87. Miss A part exchanged her previous car which had some finance to 
settle and was in negative equity, so the total amount financed on this agreement was 
£24,450 payable over 60 months.
Miss A says that within 30 days of acquiring her car she requested a rejection of it due to 
faults with the headlight, suspension and speedometer. Miss A says the headlight was faulty 
prior to supply and had already had a repair to it, the suspension was stiff and presenting a 
knocking sound, and the odometer was displaying the incorrect speed. 
Miss A says the dealer declined her request to reject the car and instead arranged an 
independent inspection of the car to identify any issues. BHL confirmed to us that they 
arranged for an inspection of the car, from an independent vehicle inspection company, 
which Ill refer to as D. 
In March 2019, D provided their inspection report which concluded that there were no issues 
identified with the suspension, and that the digital speedometer read 1 to 2 miles per hour 
higher than the analogue speedometer. However, the report advised that the differential was 
within the industry tolerances, so didnt consider it as an issue with the car. BHL provided a 
copy of the inspection report to confirm the conclusions. In relation to the headlight, BHL 
advised that Miss A was aware of a previous repair which had proved to be successful.
Miss A complained to BHL about their refusal to accept a rejection of the car. In March 2019 
BHL provided their final response to Miss As complaint. BHL upheld the issue with the 
headlights and offered Miss A £50 in compensation for any impact it may have had on her 
customer experience. BHL however said that a previous repair to the headlight had proved 
to be successful. BHL didnt uphold the other parts of Miss As complaint because they said 
there was no evidence of any faults. 
Unhappy with their response, Miss A brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Miss As complaint and didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. The 
investigator felt that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss A so 
didnt think BHL needed to do anything. 
In response to our investigators view, Miss A pointed out that there had been discrepancies 
with what the cars mileage was advertised as and with what it was supplied with, that 
incorrect details had been used during her application for finance that wasnt on the 
agreement, and that she discovered that the previous owner had also experienced similar 
issues with the suspension and headlight. 
Miss A pointed out that due to the issues the car was not as described. Our investigator 
responded to say that their view remained unchanged, so Miss A asked that her complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement. As such, this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. BHL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
My starting point is that BHL supplied Miss A with a used car that had travelled 65,700 miles. 
With this in mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of 
quality to be less than that of a brand-new car with lower mileage; and that there may be 
signs of wear and tear due to its usage. Having said that, the car was priced at £23,101 
which isnt insignificant. It also wasnt a particularly old vehicle. So, I think it is fair to say that 
a reasonable person would expect it could be used free from any major issues for a 
reasonable period of time.
Under the CRA if goods are not of satisfactory quality they do not conform to the contract. 
Section 19 of the CRA sets out certain remedies available to the consumer for goods that do 
not conform. One of those remedies is a short term right to reject if it is requested within 30 
days from supply or delivery of the goods.
Given that Miss A says she reported issues with the car within the first 30 days and 
requested a rejection of it, Ive considered whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
time of supply. 
In their final response BHL said that a repair to the headlight had been carried out prior to 
supply but that there was no evidence that the repair had failed. Miss A has said that the 
headlight was cracked and steaming up. Miss A hasnt provided any evidence of this, for 
example a date stamped photo showing the damage, nor had it been mentioned on the report from D. So, as Ive not seen anything to support there being an issue with the 
headlight, Im persuaded it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss A.
BHL have offered Miss A £50 in recognition that the headlight was replaced prior to the car 
being supplied to her. I dont have any evidence which suggests that Miss A was significantly 
impacted by this, however I also cant see that she was made aware of the repair to the 
headlight when she had been supplied the car, so I think BHLs offer of £50 is reasonable for 
any inconvenience this may have caused Miss A in the circumstances.
In relation to the suspension, D had carried out a test drive covering 14 miles, with different 
manoeuvres with an attempt to replicate the issues raised. Miss As representative who was 
present at the inspection, also test drove the car, however the report concludes that no faults 
had been identified with it. I note the comments on Ds report, that the suspension settings 
were changed during the road test, and that the issues reported by Miss A couldnt be 
replicated. I acknowledge Miss A has said that the previous owner had experienced issues 
with the suspension, however based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that the 
suspension was also of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss A.
Overall, Ive not seen anything to support what Miss A has said about the suspension or that 
the previous repair to the headlight had failed, so Im satisfied, in the circumstances that they 
were both of satisfactory quality when the car had been supplied to her.
In relation to the speedometer, Ds report confirmed that the digital and analogue 
speedometer readings have a differential of 1 to 2 miles per hour. Miss A also said that she 
found the analogue speedometer reads 2mph lower than what she sees on the radar speed 
signs.
The Motor Vehicles (Approval) Regulations 2001 says that a speedometer must never show 
less than the actual speed or exceed the actual speed by 110% + 6.25mph. So, in 
consideration of this, Im satisfied that there is an acceptable industry tolerance in relation to 
speedometers.
Ds report confirms that the digital and analogue speedometers differs by around 4% which 
theyve considered to be acceptable, D is a professional vehicle inspection company, so Ive 
no reason to doubt their judgement, nor have I seen any contradicting evidence that makes 
me question their conclusion here. So, Im satisfied that the difference between the 
speedometers are at an acceptable level.
And in consideration of the industry tolerances described above, I dont consider a slight 
variance in speeds, against radar speed signs, as an indicator that Miss As speedometer is 
defective or that it shows less than what her actual speed is. 
Miss A also raised concerns about the difference in the advertised mileage and the mileage 
when the car had been supplied to her. Miss A said that during October and November 2018 
the Mileage had been reported as fluctuating up and down. Miss A said on inspection, she 
confirmed the mileage as being 65,700. Having considered that the mileage on the finance 
agreement that Miss A signed was also recorded as 65,700. Im satisfied that Miss A was 
supplied the car with the mileage that she inspected it as having, which was also what had 
been reported on the finance agreement. Im unsure of why there may have been some 
differences in the cars mileage as Miss A has described. However, in the circumstances, I 
dont think BHL needs to do anything in relation to this.
In an email from Miss A, sent to us in October 2021, she says the car was sold to her with 
some outstanding finance on it. However, I havent seen evidence of any existing finance attached to the car, or that Miss A has been affected by it. I also havent seen that Miss A 
has raised this with BHL or that theyve commented on it. Similarly, I havent seen any 
evidence that incorrect information had been used in the credit application as suggested by 
Miss A. So, in the circumstances, I wont be asking BHL to do anything in relation to these 
concerns.
I recognise Miss A feels strongly about the condition of her car, and that shes likely to be 
disappointed with my decision, however Im satisfied from all the evidence provided that the 
car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her.   
My final decision
To settle the complaint Black Horse Limited has already made an offer to pay Miss A £50 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that B should pay £50 to Miss A.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 April 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman