DRN-4300127
The complaint
Mrs J complained that the appointment booking system British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) 
had in place prevented her from making an emergency appointment. She says BG is 
responsible for the damage caused when her pipe burst.
What happened
Mrs J had central heating breakdown cover underwritten by BG. When her heating stopped 
working and she was without hot water, Mrs J tried to make an appointment for a BG 
engineer to attend. The earliest appointment she could get using the online booking system 
was a week later. Unhappy with not being able to get an earlier appointment, Mrs J tried 
phoning BG and messaged it using social media.
As she had no success getting a response from BG, Mrs J went online again. She was 
unhappy to find that the next available appointment was then two weeks away. 
Nevertheless, she booked the appointment.
It was winter and the house was cold, so Mrs J moved in with her friend temporarily. When 
she went to check on her home a day or so later, she found that a pipe had burst and 
caused significant damage. Mrs J felt that BG was responsible because it hadnt been 
available for an emergency appointment. 
Unfortunately, due to illness, Mrs J had to cancel the planned appointment. The appointment 
was rearranged for a further two weeks on, but BG didnt turn up. Eventually, BG attended 
and completed the repair five weeks after Mrs Js heating stopped working.
Mrs J complained to BG. She said if its system for booking emergency appointments worked 
better, and if BG had responded to her messages, she wouldve had an appointment sooner 
and her pipe wouldnt have burst. 
BG acknowledged the poor service in respect of the communication and appointments and 
offered £125 compensation by way of apology. But it didnt accept responsibility for the burst 
pipe. BG said it was aware that Mrs J had claimed for the damage through her home 
insurance, so it provided its own insurers details in case Mrs Js insurer wanted to try to 
recover costs.
Mrs J didnt think the compensation was enough, so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Js complaint. She said Mrs J couldve made her own 
arrangements for a repair when it became apparent BG wasnt available sooner. Therefore, 
our investigator said BG wasnt responsible for the water damage, and its offer of £125 was 
reasonable in light of the appointments and communication complaint.
Mrs J didnt agree. She said compensation of around £5,000 would be more in keeping with 
the level of distress and inconvenience she suffered because of BGs inaction.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to not uphold Mrs Js complaint. Although the evidence shows, 
and BG accepted, it didnt handle Mrs Js claim as well as it couldve done, Im satisfied the 
compensation it offered was fair in the circumstances. Ill explain.
Appointment booking system
I understand that Mrs J wouldve been upset and frustrated when the first available 
appointment was for a week after her heating stopped working. And I understand that 
frustration wouldve increased when, after trying other methods of contact, Mrs J lost that 
first appointment slot and the next available one was two weeks on.
I cant hold BG responsible for Mrs J losing out on the first appointment, or for her need to 
rearrange the second appointment when she became ill. However, I agree that BG was at 
fault for failing to attend the rearranged appointment.
Its not clear why Mrs Js communication attempts using the phone and social media failed, 
but BG accepted it fell short of the service she couldve reasonably expected.
However, the evidence shows that Mrs J couldve made an appointment, online, for a week 
after her heating stopped working. While not ideal, especially during winter, it does mean BG 
couldve repaired the heating much sooner than it did.
So, in respect of this issue, I cant fairly hold BG responsible for the whole delay because 
Mrs J couldve accepted the first available appointment.
Burst pipe
Mrs J holds BG responsible for her pipe bursting, which caused significant damage to her 
home. 
Ive thought carefully about this point, but I dont think its reasonable to blame BG. At a busy 
time of year, the first appointment available to Mrs J was a week after her heating stopped 
working. She found the pipe had burst three days after her heating stopped working. So, 
unless BG wouldve been in a position to offer an appointment, source replacement parts, 
and complete the repair within two to three days, the pipe would always have burst. 
Ive looked at the policy to see what it says about BGs responsibility in terms of 
appointments:
Well carry out any repairs or visits youre entitled to within a reasonable time, unless 
something beyond our control makes that impossible
While a week may not have seemed reasonable in the circumstances, anything beyond two 
to three days means the pipe wouldve burst anyway.
So, based on the policy and the circumstances, I cant fairly say BG has any responsibility 
for the burst pipe or, therefore, the subsequent damage.  
Damage mitigation
Mrs J said she wasn't told she couldve arranged for a repair herself after finding there was limited appointment availability. 
I wouldnt necessarily expect BG to explain that because it wouldnt know the particular 
circumstances or whether the breakdown was something covered under the policy. In the 
event, Mrs J knew her heating wasn't working, and that her house was cold, so it would be 
reasonable for her to take steps to mitigate damage to her home and belongings. 
Mrs J said BG couldve reasonably predicted the burst pipe given the very low temperature 
at that time. However, Mrs J also said shed never suffered a burst pipe in her home before, 
and the low temperatures experienced are not uncommon for her. 
Ultimately, it seems the burst pipe and resulting damage was a very unfortunate event that 
happened due to external factors beyond the control of BG or Mrs J. I understand Mrs J has 
experienced upset, frustration, inconvenience and ill-health because of the damage, but I 
cant reasonably hold BG responsible for anything beyond the missed appointment and 
failure to communicate with Mrs J.
For those shortfalls, Im satisfied that BGs compensation offer is fair, and I see no reason to 
ask it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint 
about British Gas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman