DRN-3719302
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service provided by Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 
Limited (HLAM), in particular, when:
he wanted to instruct the sale of his holdings pro rata or by a fixed percentage but 
was unable to do so, and 
when he tried to find out more about his selling options and his phone call was 
terminated.
What happened
Mr G had an execution-only account with HLAM. In April 2022, he contacted HLAM by 
phone to ask whether it had a tool to sell pro rata across all funds? 
Following an initial phone conversation about this, the call handler arranged to transfer his 
call to the dealing team to advise Mr G further. The call was dropped during the transfer 
process.
Mr G called HLAM back and spoke to a member of the dealing team. Mr G explained that 
he was seeking to raise £17,500 from his investments and that he wanted to sell pro rata. 
When it was explained that HLAM couldnt do that, Mr G asked if he could instruct it to sell 
41% of his holdings. HLAM told him that Mr G would need to provide firm figures and 
instruct HLAM to sell a specific monetary value or number of units for each of his funds. 
There was further discussion about the fact that Mr G had existing orders already in place. 
The call ended with Mr G being passed, at his request, to the helpdesk to log a complaint.  
When Mr G complained to HLAM that the call handlers had been unwilling to help him 
and one had hung up on him, HLAM said it was sorry that Mr G had felt he had cause for 
concerns, but didnt uphold his complaint, saying (in brief summary):
it didnt offer a pro rata service for selling investments on its platform so its 
helpdesk couldnt offer that service
the dealing team had correctly explained that giving instructions to sell a fixed 
percentage of holdings or pro rata wasnt a service HLAM offered and it had told 
Mr G how he could sell his investments
the phone call had disconnected after the call handler had arranged the transfer 
and whilst it was being put through to the dealing team. HLAM was sorry about 
this but believed it had been an honest mistake as a result of human error or an 
issue with the line  which wasnt enough to uphold his complaint.
HLAM said that it would be able to assist Mr G to transfer his portfolio to an 
alternative provider if the service it could offer him wasnt suitable for his particular 
needs. 
Mr G said in response that hed been given conflicting information, he expressed concern 
about the service he was paying for and he was prompted to complain further - Mr G put it 
this way: Please raise a complaint for mentioning the complaint point, I didnt ask for your 
opinion, I know what to do if I want to move away.
HLAM said it was simply making Mr G aware of his options and wouldnt be recording an 
additional complaint. It continued to engage in further correspondence and reiterated that 
as an execution only service it asked clients to calculate the number of units they wish to 
sell and clients could provide an instruction to sell a specific number of units.
Mr G didnt feel HLAM had done enough to address his concerns and he brought his 
complaint to us. An investigator at this service considered the complaint. He explained 
what we could help with and what was within the regulators remit and said he didnt think 
HLAM had done anything wrong. He recommended not upholding the complaint on the 
basis that:
HLAM hadnt treated Mr G unfairly in relation to selling a percentage of his 
investments or pro rata, as this is not a service HLAM offered. The fact that this 
type of service is available elsewhere didnt mean HLAM had to offer to do this. 
Whilst there was some initial confusion on the first call, matters had been quickly 
clarified and the advisor hadnt been aware that the call didnt transfer successfully.
Mr G had been able to call back shortly afterwards and speak to an advisor who 
answered his questions, explained the selling process in more detail and reminded 
Mr G that his existing orders needed to be confirmed before HLAM could process 
further transactions.
Whilst the investigator acknowledged that Mr G hadnt appreciated HLAMs 
comments about transferring his business to a new provider, he didnt feel it had 
been unreasonable for HLAM to offer to assist Mr G to move his portfolio if it 
wasnt able to provide the pro rata selling option he wanted. 
Mr G didnt agree, so his complaint comes to me for a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain my approach and how I've reached my decision.
Whilst I have summarised the main issues in my own words, sometimes in less detail than 
Mr G, and I wont necessarily comment on everything Mr G has mentioned, thats because 
Ive concentrated on what seem to me to be the most important issues. This reflects the fact 
that we provide an informal complaints handling service as a free alternative to the courts. 
Its my role to identify and focus on what I think is relevant and explain how I have reached 
my conclusions. I will take into account the relevant law, regulatory requirements and best 
industry practice when deciding if HLAM has done anything wrong or acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. I will deal with all the main points that have an impact on the outcome of 
Mr Gs complaint.
The crux of Mr Gs complaint, as I understand it, is that HLAM didnt allow him to sell his 
investments on a pro rata or fixed percentage basis. I understand that as Mr G has a lot of 
holdings, this could be a very convenient way for him to instruct trades. I appreciate that 
he feels this option should be made available when other firms allow customers to do this. 
And that Mr G has mentioned also that HLAM and fund managers deal with percentages 
when taking fees.
But we dont tell a business how it should operate or what services it must offer its 
customers  those are matters for the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to 
consider. At the Financial Ombudsman Service, our role is to consider complaints brought 
to us and, based on the evidence provided, decide whether the business complained of has 
acted in a way thats fair and reasonable. Its not part of my role to tell HLAM it should allow 
Mr G to give instructions to sell his holdings on the basis of a fixed percentage or pro rata  
and the fact it doesnt allow its customers to do this isnt a reason for me to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint. 
Since HLAM doesnt offer its customers the option of being able to instruct the sale of 
holdings based on a percentage of overall investments held or on a pro rata basis, I cant 
fairly say that it did anything wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably when it told Mr G he 
couldnt instruct HLAM to sell a proportion of his holdings this way. 
I've listened carefully to the call recordings. The first call handler seems not always to have 
been entirely clear about what Mr G was asking. But I think that was mostly because he 
was enquiring about a service HLAM didnt offer. I dont find that she misinformed Mr G in 
any material respect, so I dont consider this is a good enough reason to uphold his 
complaint. In my view, the call handler was polite and courteous and once she understood 
what Mr G was trying to achieve she tried to assist by answering his questions and then 
attempting to put him through to the dealing team for further help and information. She took 
Mr G through security in order to be able to re-route the call and spoke to a colleague in the 
dealing team to say she would put the call through. Its not clear what happened next. As far as I can tell from listening to the recordings, that 
call was then disconnected. When Mr G called back, he said the line broke off. 
But it looks like Mr G was able to get through to the dealing team by taking matters into his 
own hands and calling back  and within 10-15 minutes or so of his first call, he was 
speaking to an advisor on the dealing team. Even if HLAM was responsible for what 
happened when the call broke off, I cant see that this caused Mr G any significant 
detriment as he was able to promptly restore the line of communication himself. So I dont 
find this resulted in any financial or other loss to Mr G. And I dont think I need to say more 
about this because, in these circumstances, there wouldnt be anything HLAM would need 
to do to put things right in any event. 
Whilst I acknowledge that Mr G took strong exception to HLAMs suggestion about moving 
his investment business to a new platform, to my mind this was a reasonable suggestion 
given that HLAM wasnt able to fulfil Mr Gs clearly stated expectations about the way he 
wanted to be able to instruct trades. 
In order to uphold Mr Gs complaint I have to be able to fairly say that HLAM has done 
something wrong or acted unfairly or unreasonably, causing Mr G financial or other 
detriment  and I havent seen enough here to do so. This means I am not upholding his 
complaint and I cant award the compensation Mr G would like me to. 
I hope that setting things out as I've done explains how I've reached my conclusions and 
even though this isnt the outcome Mr G hoped for, he will at least feel that his complaint has 
been fully considered by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint against Hargreaves Lansdown 
Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman