DRN-3210875
The complaint
Mr H has complained through Mrs H, who is his representative, that Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited charged him an additional premium for his car insurance 
policy after it discovered he hadnt told it about an incident in which his car was 
damaged.
 
What happened
Mr H took out a policy with Admiral via a comparison site in July 2020. Admiral contacted 
Mr H not long after the policy had started to say hed failed to declare an incident in 
October 2018 when his car was damaged. And it asked him to pay an additional premium 
and an administration fee. Mrs M complained about this. She is also insured under the 
same multi- car policy. She said it wasnt fair for Admiral to charge extra because of the 
incident, as Mr Hs car was damaged when it was parked and he was not at fault and 
didnt claim under his own policy.
Admiral responded to the complaint by waiving the administration fee and reducing the 
additional premium to around £90. But it insisted Mr H should pay this and so he did. 
However, Mr H still wasnt happy about being charged extra, so he complained to us 
through Mrs H.
One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint and said it shouldnt be upheld. This 
was because he thought it was fair for Admiral to charge the additional premium. He 
explained that insurers assess risk using certain factors and Admiral had shown Mr H was 
in a higher risk category, along with other policyholders whod had non-fault claims or 
incidents.
I issued a provisional decision on 25 November 2021 in which I set out what Id 
provisionally decided and why as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive 
provisionally decided to uphold it and make Admiral refund the extra premium it 
charged Mr H.
The relevant legislation for me to consider in this case is The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This is because what Admiral 
have effectively done is decided Mr H failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he took out the policy with it. This is because he didnt tell it 
about the incident with his car in 2018. And when it found this out, Admiral established 
if Mr H had answered the relevant question as it thinks he should have done, it would 
have charged him a higher premium. And this is why it told Mr H he had to pay more.
CIDRA states that consumers must take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when taking out an insurance policy. And it gives the insurer certain remedies if the 
consumer fails to do this, provided it would have made a difference to the policy terms or 
premium or the insurer wouldnt have offered the policy if the consumer had taken 
reasonable care. The standard of care required is that of a reasonable consumer. The 
problem is that CIDRA does not give an insurer the option to charge the consumer an 
additional premium. If Admiral could have shown Mr H had failed to take reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation when he took out the policy, it could have cancelled it or 
continued it and settled any claims under it proportionately. But it wasnt entitled to make 
Mr H pay an additional premium.
Admiral actually found out about the incident involving Mr Hs car by checking the Claims 
and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) after hed taken out the policy. This is a database 
where insurers put information about claims and other incidents involving their 
policyholders or third parties who claim against their policyholders.
I havent actually seen the question Mr H was asked, although I have seen on the Motor 
Proposal Confirmation Admiral has sent us, that he was likely to have been asked if hed 
had any accidents, incidents, thefts or losses or made any claims (Fault or Non-Fault) 
during the last 3 years. But I dont think in answering this question no it can be said Mr H 
failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. This is because I dont 
think a reasonable consumer would realise the question was referring to any incident with 
their car, irrespective of whether they were in it at the time. If Admiral wanted to know 
about incidents like the one Mr H was involved in, then I think it needed to ask a clearer 
question or make sure a clearer question was asked on the comparison site.
This means that because Mr H didnt fail to take reasonable care, Admiral had no right to 
do anything at all when it found out about the incident in 2018. It had to wait until the 
policy came up for renewal and then it would have been entitled to take the incident into 
account when it was coming up with the premium for the following year. And, even if I 
thought Mr H had failed to take reasonable care, I still wouldnt accept Admiral was 
entitled to charge him an additional premium. This is because this remedy simply 
wouldnt be available to it.
It therefore follows, that I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint is for 
Admiral to refund the extra premium it charged Mr H. This is because he never should 
have been charged it.
I appreciate Mrs H doesnt think it is fair for Admiral to charge more because of an incident 
like the one involving Mr Hs car in general terms. But for the sake of completeness, I 
should say that it is entitled to do this. This is because, whilst it might seem strange, 
Admirals pricing data shows people who have had non-fault claims or incidents are more 
likely to claim in future. This means that all policyholders who have had such an incident 
get charged more. It may seem unfair, but insurance pricing is based on risk generally, 
which results in customers getting put into certain groups and priced accordingly. And we 
dont consider this to be unfair due the nature of insurance.
I gave both parties until 9 December to provide more comments or evidence. Mrs H has let 
us know that Mr H accepts my provisional decision. Admiral hasnt provided any more 
comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs H has said Mr H accepts my provisional decision and Admiral hasnt provided any 
more comments or evidence, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I set out in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
It remains my view that the fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Hs complaint is for Admiral to 
refund the additional premium it charged him when it discovered hed hadnt disclosed the 
incident in which his car was damaged in 2018.      
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited must refund the additional premium it charged him when it 
discovered that hed hadnt disclosed the incident in which his car was damaged in 2018.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman