DRN-2731188
The complaint
Mr S says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about six instalment loans Cashfloat provided to Mr S between March 2019 
and February 2020. Mr Ss lending history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount No of 
instalmentsHighest 
repayment
1 18/03/2019 27/04/2019 £350 3 £187.50
2 26/06/2019 23/08/2019 £200 2 £135.55
3 23/08/2019 26/11/2019 £400 3 £203.09
4 30/11/2019 23/01/2020 £400 3 £179.16
5 28/01/2020 26/02/2020 £400 3 £182.20
6 26/02/2020 26/03/2020 £400 4 £180.96
Mr S repaid his loans before borrowing again. So the repayments didnt overlap. There were 
no significant breaks between the loans, so I think they can be considered as one chain of 
borrowing. Cashfloat didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint, but it offered him £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. But Mr S was unhappy with this. 
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ss complaint in part and thought loan six shouldnt have been 
given. Cashfloat accepted this. But Mr S disagreed. Mr S thought the doubling of the loan 
amount from loan two to three should be taken into account. Mr S asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Cashfloat asked Mr S for information about his income and expenditure and it carried out 
credit checks. Mr S said his monthly income was at least £2,560. He said his monthly 
outgoings were at most £1,877. So this left Mr S with a monthly disposable income of at 
least £623. I cant see that Cashfloats credit checks found anything untoward that should 
have prompted further checks. 
For loans one to four, I think these affordability checks were sufficient and proportionate. 
Given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ss circumstances at the time and his 
history with Cashfloat, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate to ask him for the amount 
of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt anything in the 
information Mr S provided or the information Cashfloat shouldve been aware of, which 
meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what Mr S was saying. 
Mr S thought the increase in the amount borrowed between loans two and three, from £200 
to £400, should be considered. But I think at this early stage of the lending relationship, and 
given Mr Ss good repayment history, Cashfloats checks went far enough. 
By loan five, however, I think the number of loans that Mr S had taken in such a short time, 
five in ten months, should have prompted Cashfloat to make further checks. I think it should 
then have verified what Mr S had told it about his finances to ensure the lending was 
sustainable. But, from the information provided about Mr Ss finances, I cant say that better 
checks would have shown that loan five was unaffordable for him. So I cant say it was 
wrong for Cashfloat to have provided it. Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ss lending history with Cashfloat, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Cashfloat should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
six. I say this because:
Mr S had taken out 6 loans in 11 months;
The amounts he borrowed stayed the same from loan three onwards. Mr S wasnt 
making any real inroads to the amount he owed Cashfloat. Mr S had paid large amounts 
of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Cashfloat over an extended period.
By loan six, Mr S had borrowed again four times shortly after repaying his previous loan. 
So Cashfloat ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having to 
borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances 
and that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
I think that Mr S lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing for loan six 
because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ss 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan six and I think Cashfloat should put things right.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr S from loan six, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
I require Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) to do the following:
refund all interest and charges Mr S paid on loan six;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans taken by loan six means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about loan six should be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ss complaint. I 
require Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) to pay Mr S compensation as set out 
above, as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman