DRN-1852627
The complaint
Miss B has complained about a number of loans she took out through a company called 
Western Circle Limited, trading at the time as Cashfloat. Miss B says she was lent to 
irresponsibly and the loans caused her financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Cashfloat throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Miss B took out 4 instalment loans from Cashfloat between December 
2017 and November 2018. Ive enclosed a summary of Miss Bs borrowing with Cashfloat, 
based on the information it provided to us:
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount Highest 
Monthly 
Instalment Term 
1 27/12/17 12/01/18 £500 £190 4 months
2 31/05/18 18/07/18 £200 £126 2 months
3 19/07/18 16/11/18 £700 £282 4 months
4 19/11/18 05/02/19 £900 £362 4 months
One of our adjudicators recently re-looked into the complaint and said they thought it should 
be upheld in respect of all 4 loans. Cashfloat didnt agree with this, so Ive been asked to 
make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Miss Bs complaint.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss B could repay all the loans she was given in a sustainable manner. These checks 
ought to have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being 
lent, the total repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history or pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So, Cashfloat was required to establish 
whether Miss B could sustainably repay the loans; not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loans being affordable on this basis might be an indication that Miss B could 
sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Cashfloat told us it carried out certain affordability and credit checks before agreeing to lend 
to Miss B including assessing her income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says all this 
information showed that she would be able to make the loan repayments she was 
committing to. Ive thought about this and also looked at the overall pattern of lending history 
with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Its a decision for individual businesses on the type and depth of financial checking they 
should carry out when judging whether or not to lend money. And as Ive said, the very early 
stages of a lending relationship may well justify less intrusive types of checks. Nevertheless, 
it seems to me that the checks carried out by Cashfloat in this particular case revealed quite 
a lot of information about Miss Bs financial situation. They showed  quite clearly in my view 
 that she was experiencing financial difficulties and in a vulnerable financial situation. 
Even though Miss B appeared to have what many people might consider to be a relatively 
good income, and had only just become a brand-new Cashfloat client, Id still expect 
Cashfloat to act appropriately to what its financial searches revealed. For example, from the 
start of the lending, we know Cashfloats own credit checks showed Miss B had 7 active 
unsecured loans in place which had only recently been taken out. Accordingly, she was 
facing repayments of almost £1,000 per month. Her other debts, from existing credit cards 
for example, were also high and already at the agreed limits on all cards. Other information 
on Cashfloats own searches pointed to her regularly seeking other loans and generally 
having obvious problems in managing money. 
Therefore, from the very first loan, any reasonable assessment of her finances would have 
shown it was clearly wrong to provide Miss B with high cost, short-term finance. Our 
experience of short-term lending tells us that consumers who have difficulty managing their 
money are much less likely to be able to sustainably repay a loan of this nature. 
The adjudicator who recently reviewed this case went on to break down the substantial 
repayments that were required to service all the other lending Miss B had outstanding at the 
point of loan 1. He also explained how this represented an unsustainable proportion of her 
monthly income. I dont intend to replicate these detailed calculations here because it isnt necessary but suffice to say the calculations demonstrate very well Miss Bs financial 
vulnerability. However overall, the points Ive made above about interpreting and acting on 
what Cashfoats own checks revealed, are sufficient on their own for me to uphold the 
complaint. Miss B was in financial difficulties, with many other loans outstanding and she 
shouldnt have been lent more money. I therefore uphold the complaint about loan number 1.
Cashfloat made the point that loan number 2 was granted after what it deems to be a break 
(or gap) in its lending. However, Im afraid I disagree that this break is relevant in this case 
because Loan 1 was still in place in January 2018, and Miss B was lent to again (loan 2) in 
May 2018, a period which I dont think is long enough for me to say the lending had stopped 
and then started again as new series of lending. Put another way, I consider loans 1 and 2 
as part of the same lending chain as there was no significant gap which might allow me to 
look at loan 2 independently of the first loan. But in any event, the further financial checks at 
the point of loan 2 simply told a similar story of substantial indebtedness to other lenders. So 
Loan 2 clearly should never have been advanced either.
Loans 3 and 4 can justifiably be described as back-to-back lending in that they immediately 
followed on from loan 2; essentially there was no gap at all between loans 2, 3 and 4 when, 
as Ive explained already, lending to Miss B was quite obviously harmful.
In summary, Cashfloat took a very narrow approach to Miss Bs apparent income and it 
failed to interpret the data from its own checks which was quite obviously showed further 
lending was unsustainable. Thats why Im upholding the complaint in full.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss B, Cashfloat should:
refund all interest and charges Miss B paid on loans 1 - 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Bs credit file relating to loans 1 - 
4.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. It must give Miss B a certificate showing 
how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold all of Miss Bs complaint and I direct Western Circle Limited to put things right as set 
out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman