DRN-4012895
The complaint
Miss M complains about problems with her Buy To Let (BTL) mortgage application with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. She said Barclays changed its mind about her lending, after 
everything was agreed, and she told us shed lost out on rental income as a result.
What happened
Miss M wanted to remortgage with Barclays. She planned to rent out her former home, so 
she wanted to change her mortgage type from residential to BTL. Barclays had her property 
revalued, as the mortgage type was changing. The value was lower than she expected. 
Barclays then said Miss M could only have a mortgage at 75% loan to value (LTV) and she 
may have to make a modest payment to her mortgage to bring the total borrowing under this 
amount. Miss M accepted this, but although she said that at this point shed agreed a rate 
and everything was in place, the offer wasnt received by her solicitors. They told her shed 
have to consider taking a loan at 70%. 
Miss M said she couldnt afford to make up the difference if she was only borrowing 70% of 
the reduced valuation, so she couldnt take out this lending. She was very unhappy that 
Barclays had gone back on its word, and about all the delays in coming to a decision. She 
said she was losing money, because she hadnt been able to rent the property out. And she 
said interest rates had gone up twice while Barclays was considering her application. Shed 
been offered lending at around 3% at first, but would now have to pay much more than that. 
Barclays said it had valued Miss Ms property as a result of the change of mortgage type, 
and unfortunately it felt the valuation for mortgage purposes had to be reduced. That meant 
her LTV had changed, so the application had to be changed. And when the underwriters 
looked at the revised application, they felt they could only offer lending at 70% LTV. 
Barclays said it had checked with senior underwriters, and 70% LTV is what it felt was 
affordable for Miss M. It wouldnt change its mind about this. But it did say it thought it could 
have told Miss M about the reduced lending sooner, so it said it would like to pay Miss M 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said Barclays had explained to 
Miss M the reasons why her property valuation had changed. Its previous valuation of the 
property was an automated valuation for rate switch purposes, and it needed to carry out a 
full valuation when she wanted to change mortgage type. Ultimately, it decided it could only 
lend 70% of the revised valuation. It then appealed this decision to senior underwriters, but 
didnt change its mind. It wouldnt lend outside of its own criteria. 
Our investigator said Barclays is entitled to set its own lending criteria, and he was satisfied 
those had been applied fairly. But it was disappointing that Miss M wasnt told by Barclays 
about its change in lending amount earlier. 
Our investigator didnt think Barclays had to cover the difference between the payments Miss 
M was making, and the payments shed expected on her new mortgage rate, because Miss 
M wasnt actually able to get the loan for the amount she wanted. But he did think Barclays 
should pay more compensation. He said it should pay £125 now, to make £425 in total. 
Miss M didnt agree. She wanted to know why her lost rental income hadnt been 
considered. She said she was waiting for this BTL mortgage to be agreed, so she could rent 
out the property. And without that tenant in place, she was making a loss of £780 a month. 
Miss M said shed also had a very stressful experience with Barclays since September 2020 
when her previous two year fixed rate agreement came to an end. She said Barclays hadnt 
supported or advised her when she called to enquire about what she should do next.
Miss M said mortgage rates had skyrocketed since she made this application to Barclays, 
and the total amount our investigator suggested hardly covered the difference in payments 
for two months of mortgage repayments.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Miss M wanted her complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
Miss M said her previous fixed interest rate ended sometime in 2020. Shes told us Barclays 
didnt support her at that time. But as I cant see this formed part of the complaint she made 
to Barclays, meaning it hasnt yet had a chance to respond to this, I wont consider that here. 
Miss M appears to have been planning to rent out this property for some time. She told us 
she applied for consent to do so in 2021, but was refused. In late August 2022, Miss M 
applied for a mortgage. She decided she wanted to change to a BTL mortgage at this point, 
and Barclays valued her property, because it was changing the basis of her lending. This 
valuation was lower than previously.
Miss M then had detailed conversations with Barclays in late September about the need for 
her lending to be at a higher LTV, and whether she could make a payment to her mortgage 
to bring the remaining lending within the maximum available 75% LTV. Miss M said she 
thought everything was agreed at this stage. Shed accepted a rate, and she had already 
signed some paperwork, so she thought Barclays should have then just issued the offer. But 
Barclays said when it processed this application, it could only lend up to 70% of the revised 
value of Miss Ms property.
Miss M was adamant that everything was agreed on this mortgage in late September. She 
said the conversation she had with Barclays then led her to believe this. But Ive listened to 
the call Miss M had with Barclays then, and Barclays agent did say that this was still an 
application. I can understand why Miss M was disappointed not to get the lending shed 
applied for, but I dont think Barclays had made promises to lend to her at 75% LTV.
However, I do think that Barclays delayed in letting Miss M know about the change to its 
proposed lending. Miss Ms solicitors did write Miss M a note about this in early October, but 
she didnt notice that until late that month. I think this information should have come from Barclays, and been passed directly to Miss M, at that time. Barclays itself doesnt seem to 
have told her about the reduced lending it could offer until the start of November. I think that 
represents a lapse in service by Barclays, and I agree with our investigator, that Barclays 
should pay an additional £125, on top of the compensation it has already paid here.
Miss M said she wanted compensation for her losses from not renting out the property, and 
for still being on Barclays SVR now. But its important to bear in mind that, although I did 
think Barclays had delayed in informing Miss M of its decision not to lend what she wanted, I 
didnt think that decision was wrong. And Barclays decision didnt prevent Miss M from then 
remortgaging elsewhere.
Miss M told us she went onto Barclays SVR in 2020, but didnt remortgage at the time. And 
she considered renting in 2021, but didnt pursue a BTL mortgage then. I also understand 
Miss M hasnt pursued a BTL mortgage elsewhere more recently, after she became aware 
that Barclays had decided it couldnt lend the amount she wanted. I havent been able to see 
that the losses Miss M would like me to consider in this case are the result of Barclays delay 
in informing Miss M of its decision on her BTL mortgage application.
I know Miss M will be disappointed, but I dont think Barclays has to pay more than the 
additional £125 which our investigator has already suggested. I think that does provide a fair 
and reasonable outcome to this complaint, so thats what Ill now award.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Miss M a total of £425 in 
compensation. Barclays Bank UK PLC can count towards that award any compensation it 
has already paid to Miss M for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman