DRN-1709347
The complaint
Miss O is unhappy with the handling of her motor insurance claim by Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
What happened
Miss O has a motor insurance policy underwritten by Aviva. In September 2019, she was 
involved in an accident and she contacted Aviva to claim under the policy. She reported the 
damage she was aware of, which largely consisted of damage to the body work and 
included damage to her rear bumper. Her car was taken to Aviva's recommended repairer.
Aviva did not inform the garage that the damage to the rear bumper was part of the claim, so 
this was not repaired prior to the car being returned to Miss O for the first time in mid-
November 2019. There were also issues with the repairs to the advanced driver assistance 
system and parking sensors, which required the car to be repeatedly sent to the main dealer 
for calibration. Miss O's car was returned to her on multiple occasions, without these issues 
having been resolved. Overall the repairs took more than three months to be completed. 
Miss O is also unhappy with the customer service she received from Aviva, specifically in 
relation to a phone call she made to them when her car was returned without the bumper 
having been fixed. She feels Aviva's call handler was rude and made her upset with his 
attitude.
Miss O initially raised a complaint about the length of time her repairs were taking, and this 
has been considered separately by this service. This separate complaint though was limited 
to looking at the initial period of the repairs, and did not relate to any activity beyond the end 
of October 2019. 
Miss O then complained about the repeated failure to complete repairs prior to returning the 
car, the customer service she received, and the overall time taken to complete the repairs.
Aviva responded to Miss O's complaint, apologising and offering £250 compensation. 
However, our investigator thought Aviva should increase this to £300. He felt the impact on 
Miss O meant that £250 was not a fair and reasonable offer. Miss O was satisfied with this, 
but Aviva did not agree. This complaint has therefore been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Largely speaking the facts in this case are not disputed. And so this decision will focus on 
whether Aviva's response to the complaint Miss O made was fair and reasonable.
Aviva agreed that it had not provided the level of service it should have and offered Miss O 
£250. However, like our investigator, I do not consider this to be a fair and reasonable 
response. I do recognise that some motor insurance claims can take many months to be resolved. But 
there were repeated failures in this case by Aviva and its agents, which led to not only the 
time taken for the repairs to increase, but also to direct trouble and upset being caused to 
Miss O.
The failure to carry out the repairs to the bumper does appear to be simple human error on 
behalf of the call handler Miss O initially spoke to. Miss O did refer to this bumper being 
damaged and this was missed by the call handler. Such mistakes, whilst regrettable, do 
occasionally happen. 
However, this issue was compounded by the service provided by the call handler Miss O 
spoke to when the car was returned without this repair. Miss O was understandably 
emotional, given she was already unhappy with the length of time taken only to discover 
incomplete repairs. This would also have had an impact given that it was her birthday the 
day the car was returned, and she had evidently been looking forward to this. The level of 
customer service provided by the call handler was not to the standard I would expect though. 
Whilst the information he gave was not incorrect, it was presented in what Miss O took, 
understandably in my view, to be a confrontational manner. And the call handler was audibly 
impatient and frustrated by the call, which did not help the situation. 
As well as this initial issue with the bumper, there were further delays in getting this repaired 
caused by Aviva failing to provide its recommended repairer with authorisation to make the 
repairs. Miss O became aware of this reason for continued delay. Aviva had by this point 
established that it had already caused this issue by not recording this damage in the initial 
list of repairs. And the delay caused by this further failure, as well as Miss O learning of this 
failure, led to distress and inconvenience being experience by Miss O that otherwise would 
have been avoided.
Miss O's car was returned to her on multiple occasions without the repairs having been 
completed adequately. In most of these instances the fact the repairs weren't complete was 
immediately evident to Miss O. And it isn't clear why Aviva's recommended repairer 
considered the works to have been satisfactorily completed, given it seems the outstanding 
issues were apparent to Miss O. I consider it would be appropriate for repairs to be 
appropriately checked prior to any return to a customer. And this does not seem to have 
happened properly in Miss O's case.
In cases such as these, it is likely that a range of compensation for distress and 
inconvenience could be considered fair. And had there just been one instance of failure by 
Aviva, its offer may have fallen within this range. However, the repeated issues, spread over 
the course of a number of weeks, means that I do not consider the offer made to be fair and 
reasonable. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I also think that a fair and reasonable level of compensation 
for the level of impact this has had on Miss O is £300.
Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Miss O £300 compensation, if it has not already done 
so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaintAviva Insurance Limited should put things right by paying Miss O the compensation set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2020.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman