DRN-3194248
The complaint
Mrs E complains about a guarantor loan provided to her by TFS Loans Limited, (TFS), 
which she says was unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this Service on Mrs Es behalf 
by a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being 
taken by Mrs E.
  
What happened
TFS provided Mrs E with a loan of £2,500 on 24 November 2017. The loan was secured by 
a guarantor who would be responsible for repaying it if Mrs E failed to make her repayments. 
The interest rate was 34.8%, (69.9% APR). The loan was to be repaid by 36 monthly 
repayments of £141.84. If Mrs E made each repayment when it was due, shed pay 
£5,106.24 in total. The loan was to be used partly for debt consolidation and partly for 
furniture and Christmas. 
Mrs E said that TFS failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment. Had any
effective assessment been carried out, TFS would not have provided a loan to her.
In its final response letter, TFS said that it wasnt upholding Mrs Es complaint. Its letter set 
out details of the information provided to it by Mrs E. She said she was paying a total of £220 
for rent and council tax. TFS assessed Mrs Es other living costs using statistical information 
and added an amount for Mrs Es two dependents. TFS had also seen Mrs Es most recent 
payslip and excerpts from her benefits letters and it carried out a credit check. The lender 
said its assessment showed Mrs E had a monthly disposable income of £417 after 
everything (including its loan repayment) was taken into consideration, which deemed the 
loan to be affordable for Mrs E. TFS said that its credit search showed adverse credit that it 
was aware of and that Mrs E had very little open credit.
Our investigators view
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended that it be upheld. She said, in 
summary, that TFS had carried out proportionate checks, but its credit checks showed that 
Mrs E was having trouble managing her finances. Mrs E had a number of recent defaults 
and it appeared that she was in arrears on other accounts. Based solely on the results of 
TFSs credit checks, she thought that TFS would have seen that Mrs E was struggling 
financially at the point of granting this loan. She thought it would have seen that Mrs E 
wouldnt have been able to meet the repayments in a sustainable way as she was already 
struggling even to meet priority payments such as utility bills. 
TFS disagreed. It said there was no dispute that Mrs E had a negative credit history in terms 
of missed payments and defaults. Whilst a negative history should be considered, it would 
not be enough on its own to say the loan should not have been approved. With these types 
of applications, TFS often saw some form of bad credit history but that didnt in turn mean a 
consumers circumstances couldnt improve or that the loan automatically became 
unaffordable. It believed that it had made a fair lending decision. The application was 
approved based on the information provided by Mrs E. The lender hadnt seen anything to 
suggest she would not be able to afford the loan and it was entitled to rely on what it had 
been told. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs E 
and to TFS on 3 November 2021. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when TFS lent to Mrs E the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged TFS to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that TFS needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not 
a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.
The checks had to be borrower focussed. So, TFS had to think about whether Mrs E could 
sustainably repay her loan. In practice this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mrs E undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mrs E. So even in this case 
where Mrs E had a guarantor who had agreed to meet repayments if she couldnt, this didnt 
absolve TFS of its obligation to assess whether Mrs E could meet her repayments without 
undue difficulty.
In general, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been 
more thorough: 
  the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
  the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
  the longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make 
repayments for an extended period). 
TFS had gathered some information from Mrs E about her income, rent and council tax. It 
had assessed Mrs Es other living costs using statistical information from the Office for 
National Statistics (ONS). It had also carried out a credit check and seen Mrs Es      
October 2017 payslip and excerpts from her benefits letters. Mrs E had said that her monthly net income was around £800. She also received benefit 
income. She lived with two dependents and had no car. TFS had calculated Mrs E had a 
monthly disposable income of £417 after repayment of its loan payment. But, TFS was 
required to establish whether Mrs E could sustainably make her loan repayments  not just 
whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation.
Mrs E had provided her October 2017 payslip to TFS. This showed a net pay of around 
£979. But TFS used the gross total pay on Mrs Es payslip to calculate that she received an 
average net monthly pay of around £854. It appeared from the amount of Mrs Es total pay 
for the year to date that her pay for October 2017 was higher than the average month. She 
appeared to have worked more hours in October 2017 than the 30 hours per week shed told 
TFS she worked. But, as Mrs E told TFS she received around £800 a month, I thought this 
amount might have been more indicative of her usual monthly pay.
The credit check TFS carried out indicated that Mrs E had three defaulted accounts in the 
eight months prior to her loan application. The most recent default was only around two 
months before her application, with a default balance of £1,267. There was no indication that 
Mrs E had managed to clear any of the default balances. Mrs E had also opened five new 
accounts in the 14 weeks prior to her loan application. Whilst one of these, a payday loan for 
£300 (according to Mrs Es own credit report) had been repaid, it was repaid by another 
payday loan for £300 taken out on the same day it was repaid. This suggested that Mrs E 
needed to borrow in order to fill a hole in her finances that was made by repaying the earlier 
payday loan. This wasnt a sustainable form of borrowing. 
Id also noted from TFSs credit checks that two of Mrs Es accounts were in arrears. Most 
worryingly, one of these accounts was a utility account which appeared to have been in 
arrears for the three months prior to her loan application with a balance of £637. Id thought 
that arrears on a utility bill were likely to be an indication of financial distress. The other 
account appeared to have been in arrears for the ten months prior to the loan application.  
Altogether, I thought Mrs Es relatively recent need for credit including a high cost loan and 
two payday loans, the three relatively recent defaults, and the arrears on two accounts 
including a utility account should have put the lender on notice that Mrs E was likely 
struggling to manage her money. 
I also had to question how TFS could have said that it hadnt seen anything to suggest Mrs E 
would not be able to afford the loan when her recent credit history suggested that she was 
having significant difficulty repaying her existing credit. I didnt think Mrs Es credit record 
ought to have provided reassurance to TFS that further credit would have been sustainable 
for her. Rather, it seemed to me that it would have raised concerns that further credit would 
only add to and prolong her indebtedness.
Whilst Mrs E had told TFS that she would be using some of the loan proceeds to consolidate 
three of her accounts, I couldnt see from the information received from TFS that it had made 
this a condition of the loan. So, it couldnt be sure that the loans would be paid off. And     
Mrs E would still have been left with a relatively large amount of debt to repay even if she did 
repay the three accounts with the loan proceeds. 
TFS would also have been aware that not all lenders reported to the same credit reference 
agencies and a lenders credit check wouldnt always be up to date. So, it was likely aware 
that Mrs E could have had other credit which wasnt shown on TFSs credit report.
Id said that simply performing credit checks wasnt enough. A lender needed to react 
appropriately to the information that any checks showed. And bearing in mind the regulatory 
rules placed an obligation to carry out a borrower focused check, where previous repayment 
difficulties were apparent, I would have expected a lender to take additional steps to verify that a consumer could take on an additional commitment before providing it. Furthermore, I 
was also concerned how TFS seemed to have been satisfied that Mrs E had a monthly 
disposable income of £417. I thought this amount of disposable income was clearly at odds 
with what her credit file showed.
Id also noted that TFS used ONS statistical information to estimate Mrs Es living costs 
(other than rent and council tax). But I was aware that ONS data was based on the finances 
and expenditure of the average consumer. And TFS knew when it lent to Mrs E, that it was 
providing a loan to someone whose credit file suggested she fell outside this average 
portfolio. So, I didnt think that the use of ONS data, which was unlikely to reflect the existing 
commitments and expenditure of someone in Mrs Es circumstances, was fair and 
proportionate. So, I didnt agree with the view of the investigator and TFS that the lender had 
carried out proportionate checks here. Bearing all this in mind, I thought it would have been 
proportionate for TFS to have taken steps to verify Mrs Es actual expenditure instead of 
choosing to rely on an over optimistic calculation of her monthly disposable income based on 
ONS data. 
Mrs E hadnt provided her bank statements from the time and I didnt know enough about 
her circumstances to say that this loan was unaffordable on a strict pounds and pence basis. 
But, taking all the above into account, I thought there was a significant risk that that Mrs E 
wouldnt have been able to afford her repayments in a sustainable way. Overall, I was 
satisfied that the information available to TFS in its credit checks demonstrated that despite 
the disposable income calculation that TFS had arrived at, Mrs E was struggling to manage 
her finances and she wasnt in a position to take on any more debt. Agreeing further credit 
for Mrs E was only likely to add to her financial difficulties.
So, for the reasons set out above, I thought that TFS had treated Mrs E unfairly when it 
agree to lend to her and subject to any further representations by Mrs E or TFS, I intended to 
say that Mrs Es complaint should be upheld, and that TFS should put things right as follows.
Putting things right  what TFS needs to do 
TFS should put things right by: 
 removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The payments 
Mrs E had made should be deducted from the £2,500 she was originally lent. TFS should 
treat any payments made if and when the £2,500 had been cleared as overpayments. And 
any overpayments should be refunded to Mrs E;
 adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date they 
were made by Mrs E to the date of settlement*; and
 removing any adverse information recorded on Mrs Es credit file as a result of this loan.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give   
Mrs E a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
Mrs E responded to my provisional decision to say that she was happy with it and had 
nothing more to add.
TFS responded to my provisional decision to say it had no further comments to make 
concerning my decision. But it also asked where within the CONC rules it stated that ONS 
data was based on the finances and expenditure of the average consumer, and that ONS 
data could not be used for a consumer with adverse credit. It said that as this seemed to be 
one of the main elements for my decision, it would appreciate my response to this query 
before my final decision was provided.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. 
With regard to TFSs query about ONS data and the CONC rules, I asked the investigator to 
tell TFS, before I issued this decision, that CONC didnt state that ONS figures were about 
average consumers, and that my provisional decision didnt say that CONC said anything 
about the ONS. Additionally, an important point in this complaint was that TFSs affordability 
assessment wasnt tailored to Mrs E and I thought it should have been in the circumstances. 
So, I didnt think that TFS had made proportionate checks.
Otherwise, given that Mrs E and TFS have given me nothing further to consider, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint and require TFS to take the steps set out above under the heading 
Putting things right - what TFS needs to do.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order TFS Loans Limited to put things right as Ive set out above under the heading Putting 
things right  what TFS needs to do.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman