DRN-3492116
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt provided him with his 
funds from his closed account after the cheque that was issued was lost. He says he has 
spent hours on calls and in branch trying to get his money. 
What happened
Mr C had an account with NatWest. In September 2020, the account was closed, and Mr C 
was sent a cheque for £7,300. He says he was abroad at the time and discovered the 
cheque had been lost when he returned in January 2021. Mr C says he has been trying to 
get the funds transferred to another account but despite several calls and visits to branch he 
hasnt received his money. He says that he has provided the requested documentation to 
support his request. 
NatWest issued a final response letter in June 2021. It said it would pay 8% compensatory 
interest on the funds that Mr C hadnt had the benefit of from January 2021 and that it would 
confirm the value and issue a cheque once the calculations were complete. It also said 
feedback would be provided to the relevant branches about the service provided and contact 
made with the branch where Mr C provided his documents. 
Mr C said that following the final response letter he still didnt receive his money and he 
referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She noted that NatWest was entitled to decide its 
identification/verification requirements but didnt think that it had provided the service it 
should have in response to Mr Cs issue. She acknowledged NatWests offer to pay 8% 
compensatory interest on the funds from January 2021 until the funds are paid but said that 
this issue should have been resolved sooner. She recommended that NatWest pay Mr C 
£300 (additional to the interest) for the distress and inconvenience he was caused by the 
delays, having to chase for responses, and needing to provide information on multiple 
occasions. 
NatWest agreed to our investigators recommendation. It also noted that as it didnt have 
copies of Mr Cs documentation it would need to resend a reclaim pack to him and have this 
completed so the funds could be released. 
Mr C didnt think the offer was fair given the length of time this issue had been ongoing.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr C is frustrated by the issues he has encountered in trying to get a 
cheque reissued for the funds from his closed account. He says that when he realised the 
cheque had been lost (in January 2021) he visited a branch to complete a reclaim form and 
had to wait six weeks. In June he received a letter saying certain documentation needed to 
be provided which he says he had already provided. His complaint was raised, and he 
received a final response saying that the branch manager and reclaims team would be 
contacted to ensure the funds were released. He visited the branch following the receipt of 
the letter and says he was told the documentation would be emailed to the complaints 
manager. However, despite this, Mr C still didnt receive his funds.
Mr C has provided screenshots showing his visits to branch and also his call record from the 
months leading up to and following his complaint being raised. Therefore, I accept he made 
several attempts to get this issue resolved. NatWests case notes suggest that Mr Cs 
documents may have been lost and a request was made for him to resubmit these and an 
offer of compensation made at that time. However, it appears this wasnt acted on and Mr C 
chose to refer his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Based on the above, it is clear that since notifying NatWest of the lost cheque, Mr C hasnt 
been provided with the service he should have been. While it is reasonable that NatWest 
has in place verification and identification procedures it appears that Mr C has completed 
these on more than one occasion but still hasnt received his money. NatWest accepted that 
there had been issues and these were addressed in its final response letter which included 
the offer of compensatory interest. However, as this issue has involved Mr C making several 
calls and visits to branch to try to get his funds released and this still hasnt happened and 
he has been asked to provide the documentation again despite previously providing this, I 
think further compensation is required.
Mr C doesnt think that £300 is enough given how long this issue has been ongoing. 
However, I note that in August 2021, NatWest said that he could visit a branch and resubmit 
his documents and receive compensation and had this happened the issue may have been 
resolved at that time. That said, Mr C has been without his money for an extended period 
and has been caused inconvenience because of this. Taking into account the time Mr C had 
needed to spend dealing with this issue and noting that compensatory interest has already 
been offered, I think the £300 recommended by our investigator is reasonable in this case.
Putting things right
NatWest should pay Mr C £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
been caused. This is additional to the payment of compensatory interest set out in its final 
response letter.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should take 
the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman