DRN-3063979
The complaint
Mr K complains about mistakes and delays after he sent withdrawal instructions to National 
Savings and Investments. 
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr K has told us hes saved with NS&I for many years. In April 2020 Mr K sent NS&I 
instructions to withdraw his funds. Within Mr Ks instruction, he gave details of his new 
address and asked for the cheque to be sent to him.
On 1 June 2020 NS&I sent Mr K a cheque but it failed to update his address. As a result, 
the cheque was sent to the wrong address and not received.
During the following months Mr K has told us he regularly chased NS&I for progress 
updates concerning his money but received generic emailed responses. It was only after 
Mr K sought the help of an MP that a complaint was logged by NS&I.
NS&I told Mr K a cheque for his funds would be sent on 31 December 2020 but it was 
posted on 4 January 2020 and received around a month later. NS&I also sent Mr K £300 
to apologise for the service provided and delays.
Mr K referred his complaint to this service and says he intended to place the funds 
released from his NS&I account in a stocks and shares account he holds. Mr K says his 
funds wouldve increased by around 25% if there hadnt been any delays by NS&I and has 
asked for that figure to be paid. An investigator looked at Mr Ks complaint but thought 
NS&I had dealt with it fairly, so didnt ask it to do anything else or increase the award.
Mr K asked to appeal and sent in evidence to show he had used the majority of funds 
released by NS&I to fund an investment account. As Mr K asked to appeal, his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different decision to the investigator as Im not persuaded NS&Is existing
offer goes far enough. Mr K says hes lost out on the opportunity to place his money in an
investment account he holds because of mistakes by NS&I and I agree thats the case.
Whilst the circumstances of Mr Ks case occurred during the pandemic, I havent found any
obvious or serious delays in terms of the time it took NS&I to process his initial instructions
to withdraw funds. Mr K sent NS&I his instructions towards the end of April 2020 and the first
cheque was sent out on 1 June 2020. Ive seen a copy of Mr Ks instructions and they clearly
contain details of his new address and specific instructions for his cheque to be sent there.
NS&I released Mr Ks funds and sent him a cheque, but because it failed to follow his
instructions it was sent to the wrong address in the wrong country. I can understand why Mr
K is upset.
From that point, Mr K says he regularly chased NS&I by email, receiving generic responses
but no further information or his funds. I understand NS&I went on to write to Mr K but as it
hadnt corrected his address he was unaware. It wasnt until Mr Ks complaint was looked at
that his details were amended and a further cheque sent to him. That cheque was dated 4
January 2020. So the delay in Mr K receiving his savings was 1 June 2020 to 4 January
2021, seven months.
Mr K says the existing settlement doesnt recognise his potential losses and I agree. Mr K
has forwarded evidence he had an investment account in place and has shown that, once
his funds were received, the majority was paid in as he claimed. Im satisfied that Mr K
wouldve paid the NS&I funds into his investment shortly after his cheque was received by
NS&I. I agree with Mr K that hes suffered a potential financial loss.
However, Mr K says he wouldve made 25% on the basis of the Dow Jones performance
during this time. I take Mr Ks point, but the investment account evidence hes sent us
doesnt show it tracked the Dow Jones or that he receive a return of 25% return on the funds
already held in his account. The investment documents Mr K has sent us dont show how
much interest was paid against his savings during the period in question.
I invite Mr K, in his response to my provisional decision, to provide further evidence to show
the returns he received on his investment account between 1 June 2020 and 4 January
2021. I think the fairest approach would be to tell NS&I to pay Mr K in line with the
performance of his existing investment account between the above dates. Ill take the
information Mr K supplies into account when deciding how to fairly resolve his case.
If Mr K cant provide that evidence, Im likely to tell NS&I to pay him 8% interest on his
savings between the above dates.
I also need to factor in that NS&I paid Mr K £250 more when it cashed in his account in
January 2021 than he wouldve received in June 2020. So any award I make will take that
into account.
I can see Mr K has tried very hard to resolve this situation and ultimately got his MP involved
before his replacement cheque was sent. Mr K has sent us evidence to show hes suffered
with very serious health conditions during the period in question. And I think its clear Mr Ks
dealings with NS&I during this period have added unnecessary strain to an already very
difficult time.
That being said, NS&I has already paid Mr K £300 in recognition of the distress and
inconvenience caused by its actions. In my view, that figure is a fair reflection of the delay
and service on Mr K and is very much in line with what I wouldve told NS&I to pay had no 
offer been made. As Im satisfied the compensation NS&I has paid in terms of the service Mr
K received is fair, I havent found grounds to increase it further.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Neither party responded with new information. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided new information for me to consider, I see no reason to change the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr Ks complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
In my provisional decision I said Mr K had received £250 more as a result of the delay. But 
having looked the figures provided again, I can see the difference was £25. So Im only 
going to tell NS&I to apply that to the overall interest refund. 
In my provisional decision I said I would award 8% interest between 1 June 2020 and 4 
January 2021 if no further evidence of Mr Ks loss was provided. As nothing further has been 
received, Im going to proceed on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct National Savings and Investments to 
settle as follows: 
- Pay Mr K 8% simple interest against his funds from 1 June 2020 to 4 January 2021 
less £25 as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman