DRN-2568449
The complaint
Mr T is represented. His representative says Brewin Dolphin Limited (Brewin) is responsible 
for the accountancy fees and an HMRC tax interest payment he incurred in 2019, associated 
with his declaration of past Excess Reportable Income (ERI) from offshore assets that were 
managed by Brewin. He says Brewins previous annual tax reports/packs on those assets 
should have included the relevant ERI information and, had that been done, the events and 
costs incurred in 2019 would have been avoided.  
What happened
Mr Ts representative mainly says an HMRC letter (dated 28 November 2018) about offshore 
income was first received then an undated letter from Brewin (about ERI from offshore 
funds) was received on 3 December 2018; ERI applied to two offshore funds owned by Mr T 
(until liquidated in the 2015/16 tax year) for the tax years of 2013/14, 2014/15, 2015/16 and 
2016/17; prior to these letters Mr T had no notice or awareness of the ERI from those funds; 
by using the Worldwide Disclosure Facility (WDF) Brewin should have ensured the opposite 
was the case and that the ERI from the funds were disclosed earlier; around August 2019, 
and aided by his representative and accountant, he resolved the matter with HMRC; he did 
so by paying the tax due on the ERI plus interest (but no penalty); his complaint to Brewin 
was not upheld and he declined its goodwill settlement offers.
Brewin mainly says information about ERI (undistributed income) from offshore assets is not 
normally included in its tax packs (which includes information on distributed income); the 
packs had a recurring notice whereby Brewin disclaimed liability for tax matters, confirmed 
that the packs were general guides which should not be relied upon for such matters, 
confirmed that it did not/does not give tax advice and reminded clients to  seek professional 
advice for their tax matters; information about the ERI from the two funds became available 
in November 2018, which was followed by the notice it promptly sent Mr T; the notice was 
also prompted by HMRCs new Requirement to Correct (RTC) rules, at the time, on 
reporting ERIs; it could not convey ERI information that had not previously been disclosed by 
the offshore fund managers and there is evidence in the public domain on how those 
managers were generally poor in doing so.
A senior investigator looked into the complaint and concluded it should not be upheld. In the 
main, he considered that there was no basis to say Brewin was responsible to provide the 
ERI information earlier than it did and that the relevant tax packs made clear they were 
general guides, were not tax advice and were subject to clients taking professional tax 
advice.
Mr Ts representative disagreed with this outcome. His key points on Brewins 
responsibilities were that due diligence for the two funds, under its discretionary 
management service to Mr T, should have included active enquiries into and identification of 
the ERIs earlier (during the relevant tax years); that when Brewin did this (that is, actively 
enquired) in 2018 the ERI information was made readily available to it by the offshore fund 
managers, so that would likely have been the case if Brewin had done so in every relevant 
tax year; and that it should have included such ERI information in the annual tax packs 
issued to Mr T. He considered these valid grounds on which to say the events and costs 
incurred in 2019 would have been avoided but for Brewins inaction in the previous relevant 
years, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Tax Context
Both parties are familiar with the meanings and workings of the ERI, WDF and RTC. 
However, for the sake of completeness I quote the following below from HMRC  
Excess Reportable Income (ERI) 
Any profit from a fund that is not distributed to investors, either as dividends or interest, is 
called Excess Reportable Income. We treat ERI as a distribution of income to you and the 
other investors (this is known as income you are deemed to have received). For UK tax 
purposes, we treat this distribution as if you had received the ERI on the Fund Distribution 
Date. This is 6 months after the end of the funds accounting period. You should include the 
ERI in your UK Self Assessment tax return for the tax year which includes the Fund 
Distribution Date. The offshore investment fund should have made this information available 
to you either by publishing it on their website or by sending you the information directly.
Use the Worldwide Disclosure Facility (WDF) to disclose a UK tax liability that relates wholly 
or in part to an offshore issue.
Over 100 countries have committed to exchange information on a multilateral basis under 
the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Developments Common Reporting 
Standard (CRS).
The CRS increases international tax transparency.
On 31 December 2015, all HMRC offshore facilities closed. Up to that date, HMRC gave 
incentives to encourage people to come forward and clear up their tax affairs.
The WDF opened on 5 September 2016. On 1 October 2018, new sanctions 
under Requirement to Correct were introduced to reflect HMRCs toughening approach.
The purpose of the RTC legislation is to require those with undeclared offshore tax liabilities 
(relating to Income Tax, Capital Gains Tax or Inheritance Tax for the relevant periods) to 
disclose those to HMRC on or before 30 September 2018.
This will allow HMRC to take the appropriate action, for example, the collection of tax, 
interest and any penalties due under the appropriate legislation currently in force. This will 
ensure that those with offshore interests pay the correct amount of tax. Where taxpayers are 
unsure whether they have undeclared offshore tax they will need to review their affairs to 
check whether action is needed to comply with the RTC.
30 September 2018 was chosen as the final date for corrections as this is the date by which 
more than 100 countries will exchange data on financial accounts under the Common 
Reporting Standard (CRS).CRS data will significantly enhance HMRCs ability to detect offshore non-compliance and it 
is in taxpayers interests to correct any non-compliance before that data is received.
The Complaint
The case presented by Mr Ts representative is reasonably clear. I note the argument about 
how previous ERI reporting on his two funds could have been made available to him. 
However, the argument rests completely on the notion that Brewin was obliged to actively 
put ERI or undistributed income related enquiries to the relevant offshore fund managers 
during each of the tax years in which Mr T held the funds. I have not seen evidence that 
such an obligation was within Brewins service to Mr T, so I share the investigators finding 
that Brewin does not appear to have been responsible for doing so.
Brewins reporting duty is not in dispute and the same applies to the tax packs it issued 
pursuant to discharging that duty. The dispute is over the ERI information that was missing 
from the packs. In response, it says such information was not supposed to be included in the 
tax packs, as they reported distributed income  as opposed to undistributed income/ERI. I 
have not seen evidence to the contrary of this. If this too is in dispute, I am not persuaded 
that Brewins reporting duty extended to what Mr Ts representative has described.
The reporting duty would reasonably have been defined by, and reliant upon, information 
disclosed by the fund managers  in the present case, the offshore fund managers. This 
appears to have also been reflected in the HMRC text quoted above, which refers to the 
expectation that the  offshore investment fund should have made [ERI] information 
available  either by publishing it on their website or by sending [the investor] the 
information directly. I understand the point that has been made about Brewin exercising due 
diligence, but the argument within that point is not that Brewin should have applied due 
diligence to handling information it received but that it should have pursued undisclosed 
information about undistributed income. In the context of reporting on distributed and 
disclosed income from the funds, I am not satisfied that its duty extended that far.
Brewins explanation is that it made the effort to obtain the undisclosed information in 2018 
because of the RTC rules at the time. This is a plausible explanation. Its letter (received by 
Mr Ts representative on 3 December 2018) is consistent with this explanation and it shows 
Brewin sharing the ERI information it had received from its enquiries.
I am not persuaded that Brewin should previously have actively made such enquiries, in the 
absence of the RTC context it has referred to. Such enquiries, without the RTC context, 
would essentially have been about undistributed income from the offshore funds which were 
relevant to Mr Ts tax liabilities. That could or would have been a matter for his tax advisers 
to pursue, or at least initiate, but the balance of available evidence does not show that 
particular responsibility to probe sitting within Brewins reporting duty.
I am also not persuaded by the argument that Brewin could previously have used the WDF 
to identify and disclose the ERIs from Mr Ts fund. I say this for the same reason(s) as above 
and because the two relevant funds appear to have been liquidated by the time the WDF 
began in September 2016  and available evidence suggests that the last distributed income 
from them might also have taken place before onset of the WDF. I make these additional 
points to consider that Brewins reporting on the funds could have concluded earlier than 
introduction of the WDF. However, if these additional points are wrong, I rest my finding on 
the WDF argument on the reasons in the previous paragraphs above.
ConclusionOverall and on balance, I do not consider that Brewin has committed a wrongdoing in this 
matter, and I do not agree that it should reimburse Mr T for the accountancy costs and tax 
interest payment he incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman