DRN-4055221
The complaint
Miss B and Mr T complain about delays and poor service by Fairmead Insurance Limited  
trading as Legal and General when dealing with a claim on their home insurance policy.
What happened
In July 2020 Miss B and Mr T noticed a leak of water in their home. A pipe had fractured and 
this led to an escape of water. They made a claim on their policy and arranged for a plumber 
to fix the leak. The property needed to be dried out and repairs carried out to put right the 
damage caused by the leak of water, which was extensive.
Fairmead accepted the claim. A contractor was sent to remove the floor, but they damaged a 
floor tile which led to a risk of asbestos being exposed.
Miss B and Mr T had to move out of the property along with their children. Fairmead 
arranged for a specialist firm to help them find alternative accommodation but Miss B and 
Mr T say they had to make most of the arrangements themselves. In October 2020 they 
moved into a property on a fixed term tenancy but by December very little work had been 
done and in the meantime the house suffered with damp problems. Mis B and Mr T 
complained about the delays. 
Fairmead issued a final response to the complaint in which it accepted there had been 
delays and offered £500 compensation for the distress caused by this, but Miss B and Mr T 
didnt accept the offer. 
An inspection was arranged with a loss adjuster and a specialist was appointed to deal with 
the asbestos. The kitchen had to be removed for works to be done and then replaced.
The works had not been completed by April 2021. Miss B and Mr Ts tenancy was due to 
expire in July and they were worried the work wouldnt be completed by then. They referred 
their complaint to this service but didnt pursue it at the time as matters were ongoing.
In June 2021, Fairmead agreed a list of snagging items to be completed, with a view to the 
family moving back home by 30 June, but that didnt happen as the works were not 
satisfactory. When the tenancy ended, the family was moved to a hotel. There was a further 
inspection in August 2021 and the works continued. 
The family returned home but found the works had not been completed properly. Fairmead 
agreed for them to move to another hotel but their eldest son went to stay with a relative as 
the hotel accommodation wasnt big enough for them all.
A loss adjusters report in October 2021 set out the extent of works needed to put things 
right, which involved removing the kitchen and reinstating it once the repairs had been 
completed. The family finally returned home in late November 2021. Miss B and Mr T then 
made a further complaint. 
In January 2022 a further loss adjusters report advised that the repairs had been completed 
and Fairmead issued a response to the further complaint. Fairmead said:  
it apologised for the poor service provided;
it had been concerned about the asbestos risk but a specialist said the tile was only 
scratched and no asbestos was exposed;
Mr T had inspected the works and said he was happy with them, but if there were 
any further snagging issues, he should provide a list and it would arrange for them to 
be done or alternatively he could find his own contractor and it would cover the cost.
Fairmead repeated the previous compensation offer of £500 saying it was still of the view 
this was a fair amount. Miss B and Mr T didnt accept this and asked us to look into the 
complaint about the whole period up to then. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She took account of the fact 
Fairmead had agreed to waive the excess of £500 which should have been paid on the claim 
but even allowing for that, thought the compensation should be increased. She asked 
Fairmead to pay a total of £1,000.
Fairmead said a lot of issues had been outside of its control, and taking account of the 
excess the compensation was effectively £1,500 which seemed high, but it would accept the 
recommendation.
Miss B and Mr T did not agree and said the compensation should be higher as:
they had been messed around for 16 months, including time spent in two different 
hotels;
they had incurred other losses including lost earnings when they had to move home 
and the impact of the delays had affected their health;
its not just a question of some snagging items  the flooring is too low and the 
kitchen worktops dont sit right.
Our investigator said if they provided a list of the issues Fairmead has agreed to either 
rectify them or pay a cash settlement so they can have the work done themselves and this is 
a fair offer.
As no agreement has been reached I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed. Where repairs need to be done, Id expect these 
to be lasting and effective.
The policy provides cover for damage caused by escape of water. Fairmead accepted that 
the initial repairs were not adequate and there have been delays putting things right. So 
thats not in dispute. The issue I need to decide is whether the compensation that has been 
offered is enough to fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss B and Mr T are unhappy that there are still some outstanding issues. They say these 
are not just snagging items and a lot of work needs to be done. But Fairmead said if they 
provided a list of the issues it would either arrange for them to be put right or pay a cash settlement so they can have the work done themselves. I appreciate Miss B and Mr T say 
work still needs to be done. But this offer was made in the final response Fairmead sent in 
January 2022. They havent provided details of the outstanding works to Fairmead. If they 
do, Fairmead can consider that and they can then agree a way to deal with them. If there are 
any further issues Miss B and Mr T can make a fresh complaint about that.
In this decision Im considering the delays up to that response in January 2022. I know 
Miss B and Mr T had a very difficult time. They moved a number of times and had all the 
stress of dealing with the ongoing claim, which should have been settled much quicker. On 
the other hand, they were paid a disturbance allowance and other costs. Mr T says some 
costs have not covered but hasnt provided details of these. Hes also referred to the impact 
on his health and provided some information about medical issues. While I accept the 
situation would likely have had an impact, the evidence doesnt show the medical problem 
he referred to was caused by what happened with the claim. 
The crux of the matter is whats a fair payment to reflect the distress and inconvenience 
caused for the period from July 2020 to December 2021. Taking into account that Fairmead 
waived the excess of £500 that would normally have been paid, a payment of £1,000 would 
mean they have effectively received £1,500. Taking into account the length of time involved 
and the other payments made, I think that is a reasonable sum.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and General 
to pay compensation to Miss B and Mr T of £1,000 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 August 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman