DRN-1713337
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Axa France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mr L says AXA mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mr L took out on a store card account in October 1996. 
It was added to his account when he applied for the card in store.
Mr L says he never asked or agreed to have PPI. He says the store assistant ticked the box 
for PPI after he had signed the form. He also gave examples of other complaints our service 
have dealt with that he says supports that his complaint should be upheld. He thinks 
AXA mis-sold the policy to him.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr L has said the PPI box was ticked by a store assistant after he had signed the form 
and he never asked or agreed to it. So i looked into this.
AXA has given us a copy of the store card application form from the time of sale. This shows 
there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented as optional. So after seeing this, 
i think Mr L would have seen that PPI was an optional requirement. I acknowledge his 
comments but his recollections of the sale are not detailed. This is understandable as the 
sale took place many years ago. So I can't be sure how the policy was added to his account. 
But based on the sales documentation and what I know of how these policies were sold at 
the time i think its more likely he was given a choice to have PPI and he signed the form 
agreeing to it. 
This application was made by Mr L completing an application in a store. So because of this, I 
dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So AXA didnt have to check if the policy 
was suitable for him. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mr L enough information so he 
could make an informed choice whether the policy was right for him.Its possible the information AXA gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mr L would have acted differently and not bought the policy, if 
better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led him to act differently.
Mr L has told us he didn't have sick pay or savings. So I think taking into consideration what 
Mr L has said about his circumstances, the PPI would have been useful to him in that 
his store card payments would be met. I also couldnt see any significant or limiting terms 
that would have affected Mr Ls decision to take the policy out either.
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mr Ls decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given. 
Finally, Mr L has cited other complaints that our service has upheld. I have looked at these 
and can see that the circumstances in each one are different. I have looked at the individual 
circumstances of Mr L's complaint based on what he and AXA have submitted.
In doing so and I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr L, but i have not found any 
reason to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman