DRN-3830591
The complaint
Ms M complains that Enness Limited failed to provide suitable advice when recommending a 
mortgage product in 2020.
What happened
In May 2020, Enness Limited acted as the broker for Ms M, arranging a mortgage provided 
by a separate lender, Company A. Enness Limited provided advise and made a 
recommendation to Ms M for her to take a mortgage that it felt met her needs. 
Ms M was looking to purchase a residential property with an interest only mortgage. The fact 
find completed during the application set out Ms M planned to repay the mortgage by selling 
the property in the future. Enness Limited made a recommendation for a mortgage which it 
felt was suitable for Ms M and her needs based on this. It recommended a five year fixed 
rate product, if the mortgage was repaid within the five years of the product term, early 
repayment charges (ERCs) would be payable. Enness Limited said that Company A, who 
provided the borrowing, allowed the property to be resold as the repayment strategy  so 
this met Ms Ms needs. It also noted that Company A had a streamlined underwriting 
process which meant things would likely be completed quickly too. 
Ms M accepted the mortgage recommended and proceeded with the borrowing provided by 
Company A.
In 2021, Ms M contacted Company A and requested permission/consent to let the property. 
Company A said because the property is in Northern Ireland and the legislation applicable to 
this area, it was unable to agree to the letting of the property. If Ms M let the property, it 
would be done so on an unauthorised basis. This meant the interest rate applied to the 
mortgage on top of the previous fixed rate was higher than it would be if Company A 
authorised the property to be let. Ms M decided she didnt want to let the property on an 
unauthorised basis and pay the higher interest rate applicable.  
Ms M complained to Company A about its decision and policy restricting her from letting the 
property out without consent because of the area it was in. She feels Company A treated her 
unfairly compared to other customers with properties in different parts of the United 
Kingdom.  And in June 2022, she also raised a complaint about Enness Limited and its 
advice to take the mortgage with Company A. Ms M feels that as the broker, Enness Limited 
should have been aware on the restrictions Company A places on letting properties in 
Northern Ireland and even if she failed to discuss future plans with Enness Limited at the 
time of the application, it had a duty to explain anything which might disadvantage her. 
Ms M feels the recommendation and advice was wrong and has led to her losing out. She 
said she had no option but to sell her property and incur the ERC as she couldnt obtain 
consent to let it and didnt want to let it on an unauthorised basis. She has also needed to 
pay storage and shipping costs for furniture and the legal fees that related to the sale of the 
property.
Enness Limited looked at the complaint but didnt agree it had done anything wrong with the 
advice provided at the time. It didnt think Ms M made it clear at any point during her 
communication with it in relation to the mortgage application that she intended to let the 
property in the future and seek consent for this with Company A.  Because of this, it didnt 
think it was reasonable to expect it to have provided advise about the letting policy specific 
to Northern Ireland or to enquire about this and if there was restrictions that Ms M should be 
aware of, as there was no indication this was a requirement of hers during the application 
process. 
Ms M brought her complaint to this Service with the assistance of her representative. They 
explained that the question to be answered is whether the broker knew it was selling a 
product to Ms M that would discriminate against her as a Northern Ireland resident in 
anyway. They thought focusing on whether she disclosed any information about her future 
plans in the fact find was too limited and would only result in one outcome. 
Our investigator looked at Ms Ms complaint and didnt think Enness Limited had done 
anything wrong. As the complaint was about the advice given at the point of sale, she said it 
was right to consider what was said when thinking about whether this was suitable. She 
reviewed the fact find document and couldnt see this mentioned the intention to let out the 
property in the future. She didnt think it was fair to expect Enness Limited to give advice on 
something it wasnt aware of. She felt the advice provided was suitable with the 
recommendation being based on Ms Ms needs and circumstances as set out in the fact find. 
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to expect the broker to run through policies or 
restrictions to the mortgage that, in its opinion based on the information provided, were 
irrelevant.
Ms M and her representative responded and disagreed. They said it had been disclosed in 
previous conversations that Ms M intended, at some point, to let the property out and this 
and ERCs were discussed and covered by the terms and conditions forwarded by Enness 
Limited. 
Ms M feels the main point is that Enness Limited failed to mention that the mortgage 
provided by Company A, treated her less favourably as a Northern Ireland customer and this 
should have been highlighted. She believes the terms and conditions give her the right to let 
her property out if she chose to do so and Enness Limited failed to understand the product it 
was selling and how she might be treated differently if choosing this right in the future. She 
believes that even Company A itself failed to understand how the product works and so 
Enness Limited couldnt know what it needed to say to provide correct advice.
Our investigators opinion didnt change. She didnt agree the terms and conditions created a 
guarantee that letting the property would be agreed. And she didnt think the 
recommendation made by Enness Limited was unsuitable as the mortgage was residential 
and the information provided didnt give any indication of the future intention to let the 
property.
Because Ms M disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. I know shell be disappointed by this, but Ill 
explain why this is the case.Ms M has made a number of points which relate to the mortgage she was sold and the 
conditions of this mortgage. This was sold by Enness Limited to Ms M, but Company A is 
responsible for the formation of the offer and mortgage contract and its terms and conditions. 
Some of what Ms M has complained about is not the responsibility of Enness Limited, 
although I understand the relevance and context. 
For the avoidance of doubt, Ive focused here on what I think is relevant to Enness Limited 
and its responsibility in the sale and whether I think it has done anything wrong.
Ms M and her representative feel it is unreasonable to focus on the information disclosed 
with Enness Limited when the mortgage application was made. They said this wasnt shared 
at first but later stated that Ms M did disclose her intention to let the property at a future date. 
It is important to understand what was shared with Enness Limited about the future 
intentions of Ms M and her property. I say this, as the future intentions, known at the time of 
the sale will have a material impact on Ms Ms needs. So if she was aware that it was likely 
shed want to let the property during the term of the mortgage with Company A, she should 
have disclosed this. 
Enness Limited provide advice on the sale of the mortgage and in doing so, asked Ms M a 
number of questions as part of its fact find to ascertain what it felt her needs were. This was 
needed to make a recommendation to meet these needs. I appreciate Ms M now believes 
information was shared with Enness Limited about the letting of the property in the future 
and potential ERCs, but the documents provided dont support this. And in the absence of 
this, I dont think it is fair to say that it was made clear to Enness Limited that Ms M felt she 
may need to request consent to let her property in the near future. 
The fact find showed that Ms M was looking for a fixed rate product to allow her to budget 
and that she was happy to have an ERC in place if the fixed rate was applied. She was also 
asked whether she was likely to move to a new house in the foreseeable future and 
answered this question with no. Enness Limited recommended a five-year fixed rate 
mortgage with Company A following this and cited the fixed payments and Ms Ms desire to 
budget as well as the reasons why it felt Company A provided the best option based on 
Ms Ms future repayment strategy. 
I appreciate Ms M and her representative dont think the disclosure of the intention to let the 
property is relevant and regardless of this, Enness Limited should have highlighted a policy 
of Company As which may disadvantage Ms M. I dont think this is a reasonable expectation 
to place on Enness Limited in the circumstances of this complaint. Ms M was taking a 
residential mortgage on a property that she said she had no intention to move from in the 
near future. And a five-year fixed mortgage rate was offered to give a set monthly payment 
to help Ms M budget as shed indicated was important to her in the fact find. On the 
information provided, I think it is fair to say that Enness Limited acted fairly when making the 
recommendation it did.
Ms M doesnt dispute that she was provided with the terms and conditions of the mortgage. 
These do show that consent to let can be requested providing conditions are met. But this 
doesnt say the consent is guaranteed to be authorised and it provides details of how an 
unauthorised consent to let is treated over an authorised application. The difference is a 
higher interest rate applied to the mortgage when the let is unauthorised, with the higher 
interest rate designed to protect the security of the lender. This doesnt restrict the let taking 
place and Ms M had the option to progress as an unauthorised let if she wished to do so. 
Enness Limited provided the information in relation to the mortgage which confirmed that 
consent can be requested and how this would work if authorised or not. I dont think it is fair 
to expect it to have gone further than this when providing Ms M information about her mortgage or Company As background policies applicable when determining the question of 
consent. I say this because I dont think there was an expectation provided to Enness 
Limited that Ms M would likely look to let her property out in the near future. It was not 
something discussed in the application and it would be unreasonable to expect it to make a 
recommendation or give advice on something undisclosed. 
Overall, Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Enness Limited did anything wrong 
when providing the advice it did during the sale. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman