DRN-2316238
The complaint
Mr O complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined the claim he made under 
his home insurance policy for damage to his daughters mobile phone. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. Mr O had home insurance with Admiral. In June 2019 
his daughter, Miss O, damaged her mobile phone. A claim was made on Mr Os policy. 
Admiral said Miss Os phone wasnt covered as she wasnt living at Mr Os home address at 
the time of the claim. They also said that Mr Os statement that his daughter lived with him 
contradicted what hed told them when he set up his policy. Mr O was unhappy with this and 
the decision letter Admiral sent him. 
Ultimately the matter was referred to our service and one of our investigators didnt uphold 
the complaint. The investigator thought Admirals decision was in line with the policy terms 
and fair and they didnt think Mr O had been treated unfairly. Mr O disagreed, he maintains 
that his daughter does live with him and that his claim ought to be covered. The complaint 
was passed for an ombudsmans decision. In November 2020, an ombudsman colleague 
issued a provisional decision in which he said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint because I think Admirals decision to decline the claim was fair and 
reasonable under all the circumstances. Let me explain why. 
Policy Terms
Ive looked at Mr Os policy terms and I see that, under Section 3: Cover away from your 
home, the policy states:
We will pay for loss or damage anywhere in the world to you or your familys:
(i) Personal Possessions
Up to the amount shown under Personal Possessions limit on your policy documents. 
And under Home insurance Definitions, the policy defines family as: [The policy holders] 
spouse/partner, children, foster children, parents and any other relative who permanently 
lives with you at your home address.
There is a further policy term which says, cover for loss or damage to property, outside the 
home, is only available to the policyholder or their family (as defined in the policy). So, 
Miss O has to have been living with her father at his home address at the time of the claim, 
for the policy to provide cover.
Admirals records
Admiral said Mr O had told them at the time of his claim that his daughter had been living at 
his home address permanently. And they said that this contradicted what hed told them at 
the time his policy was set up. So, theyd declined the claim. 
Ive listened to the call from July 2018 where Mr O sets up his policy and, during this, hes 
asked whether anyone else lives at the property and he confirms that he lives alone. Admiral 
have also provided detailed notes of other calls with Mr O. During the first notification of loss 
call made on 24 June 2019, the call handler asks: Does your daughter live with you? Mr O 
replies Yeah. When the call handler points out: I only have one adult listed at the 
property, Mr O replies: Its a two bedroom flat and my daughter lives here. The call handler 
repeats: Ok youve only listed one adult at the property. And Mr O repeats, No, no, no, you 
go back when I took the policy out and Ive told you my daughter lived here.
And in a further call on 27 June 2019, Admirals call handler asked  so since [Miss O] 
moved back in about 2/3 years ago, shes been with you in that residence, as a permanent 
residence? And Mr O replied, With me, yes So shes been a permanent resident of your 
current address, since then? Yes, this has always been her permanent home.
So, Admiral listened to some earlier calls. One was another first notification of loss call which 
Mr O had made on another claim on 21 April 2019. On that occasion, Mr O was asked: And 
weve got one adult occupant living in the property, to which Mr O replied Thats myself, 
yeah. No child occupants and no lodgers?, No.
Ive also seen Mr Os Home Proposal Confirmation letter dated July 2018 which asks him to 
check the contents and inform Admiral of any errors. In terms of those living at the property 
this states: No of adults  1. Theres no record that Mr O made any attempt to correct this. 
So, on the basis of these records, Im satisfied that Mr O has provided conflicting information 
to Admiral about whether his daughter lived at his home address. 
Social Media
Ive also considered evidence identified by Admiral on Miss Os social media pages. And I 
can see that Miss O did state in a group conversation: Lets hope daddy Os contents 
insurance covers his stupid daughter breaking her phone without cover!! And continues: 
surely, it doesnt make a difference that I dont live there. Lol.
Mr O has said his daughters comments were flippant and made while she was drunk. But 
the conversation in question does directly relate to Miss Os damaged phone and her words 
are very clear. So, I see no reason to disregard this information and Im satisfied that Admiral 
have been fair in concluding that Miss O didnt live at her fathers home address when the 
claim was made based on this evidence. 
Mr O has also provided evidence that he says proves his daughter was living at his home 
address. So, Ive considered this too. 
Tenancy agreements and bank statements
Ive considered copies of two tenancy agreements produced by Mr O to prove his daughter 
was living at his home address at the time of the claim. While these do include his 
daughters name, because theyre dated August 2010 and January 2020, neither relates to 
the relevant period. So, Im not persuaded by these that Miss O was resident at the property 
at the time of Mr Os claim in June 2019. Ive also seen copies of two communications from Miss Os bank to Mr Os address. These 
are dated January and February 2020. Although these show me that Miss O received 
statements at the property, one is a generic banking letter and the other relates to a 
moribund account, so I dont think these prove she was a resident at her fathers home 
address when the claim was made either. So, Im not persuaded by these that Miss O was a 
resident at the time of claim. 
Photographs
Ive also looked at a series of photos Mr O took of his daughters bedroom to show she was 
living at his home address. But although theyre undoubtedly of a bedroom, and there are a 
handful of possessions there that might belong to Miss O, there are very few possessions 
indeed and the room doesnt really look as if its occupied at all. So, Im not convinced that 
these show that Miss O was living with Mr O in June 2019 either. 
Summary
So, for the reasons above, based on all the evidence Ive seen, I think Admirals conclusion 
that Miss O didnt live at Mr Os home address at the time of the claim is reasonable. And as 
the policy only provides cover to those who permanently live at the insured address, it 
follows that I think that Admirals decision to decline Mr Os claim is fair and reasonable. As 
such, Im not intending to conclude that they need to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. 
I also note that Mr O complained about the standard of service he received from Admiral. 
But having looked through the file, I can see no evidence of unreasonable behaviour in 
Admirals phone calls or written communication or any delay or unfairness. And Im satisfied 
that their investigation was carried out appropriately.
Admiral didnt respond to the provisional decision within the deadline provided. Mr O 
responded to express his disagreement and re-iterated his reasons. Now both parties have 
had an opportunity to comment, a final decision can be issued. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also fully reviewed my colleagues provisional decision as quoted above and I agree with 
his findings. Mr O says that he informed Admiral that his daughter was at university and 
occasionally spent time in London due to her studies. He insists he was told she would be 
covered in any case as she was a family member and because his home was her main 
residence. 
Ive considered this but Im not persuaded that Mr Os testimony is reliable evidence. In both 
July 2018 and April 2019 he told Admiral he lived at home alone. But in June 2019 Mr O told 
Admiral his daughter lived with him. And now Mr O is saying that his daughter was away at 
university and that his house was still her main residence. So, taking this into consideration, 
I dont think Admirals decision to decline the claim was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Im more persuaded by the answers Mr O gave before his claim manifested itself, particularly 
in the context of his daughters remarks on social media which I consider to be very 
compelling evidence here. 
Mr O has reiterated that the social media post was made whilst Miss O was intoxicated and 
had been away from home for a few days at her boyfriends house. He says this doesnt make it fair for the claim to be declined. Ive considered this but I dont agree. I think that the 
social media post is a clear indication that Miss O wasnt living at Mr Os home at the 
relevant time. In the circumstances of this complaint, I think Admirals decision to decline the 
claim on the basis of Miss O not being a family member who permanently resides at the 
insured address is fair. 
Overall, I dont think there is evidence to support that Admiral have acted outside of the 
policy terms or have treated Mr O unfairly. So, Im not going to tell them to do anything 
further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman