DRN-2885926
The complaint
Mr Ts complaint about TSB Bank plc (TSB) relates to documentation which he says he sent 
to TSB and which they subsequently lost.
What happened
Mr T sent a number of original business cards to TSB, which he had previously obtained 
from different TSB mortgage advisers. On the back of these cards he had written notes of 
important information which were of use to him in a different matter.
Mr T asked TSB to return the original business cards but he received only copies of the face 
of the cards, not the notes on the reverse. When he enquired as to the whereabouts of the 
written notes he was TSB did not have the originals and nor did they have any record of 
having received them.
Mr T was unhappy with TSBs final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there was insufficient 
evidence to satisfy him that Mr T had sent the original business cards to TSB and so he 
couldnt say that TSB had lost them.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether TSB acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
It is Mr Ts case that he sent the original business cards to TSB. But, TSB have no record of 
receiving the originals. I cannot know, absolutely, which version is right and so I must 
determine what is more likely and I do that by considering what is most likely on the balance 
of probabilities.
I know that TSB received the cards because it returned copies of the face of the cards. I am 
therefore satisfied Mr T did send some business cards to TSB.
The question therefore becomes whether there was anything written on the reverse and if so 
the importance of that information to Mr T. It is impossible to know what was written on the 
reverse of the cards, if anything, since they are no longer available. 
If I accept that Mr T did make the important notes, as he claims, then the next question 
which arises is why, given that they were so important to him, he did not make copies for 
himself, or send copies to TSB, thus ensuring that he always had the information he needed. 
The effect of not retaining copies, or the originals, of the reverse of the cards means that it is 
likely that the information written was of little importance or significance, since if it had been 
copies would have been retained.
I also think that if the information Mr T claims to have written on the reverse of the cards was 
very valuable, it would be more likely than not that he would have recorded that information 
elsewhere. 
So, on the balance of probabilities, I think it unlikely that Mr T did make important notes on 
the reverse of the business cards. If, however I am wrong about that, I am not satisfied in 
any event that any such notes made were of importance since copies were not kept.
So, although Mr T will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say TSB has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2022.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman