DRN-2501802
The complaint
Mrs and Mr Rs representative, a claims management company (CMC), complains on their 
behalf that they were given unsuitable investment advice by Abbey National, now Santander 
UK Plc, referred to as Santander. 
In summary, the CMC says:
The funds represented 100% of Mrs and Mr Rs available funds. 
The managed fund, which is made up of 62.8% equities  33% held overseas 
 represented too much risk as they were novice investors. 
What happened
In February 2000, Mrs and Mr R were advised to invest £8,000 into an investment bond, 
invested in the Managed Fund. The bond was surrendered in April 2011 for £9,527.93. 
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. In short, it said:
Despite the limited available information, it was satisfied that the recommendation 
was suitable.
As joint investors, the recommendation to invest in the managed fund was suitable 
for Mrs and Mr R. 
Santander wouldve completed a fact find and offered advice based on their financial 
circumstances. 
It wouldve also provided a suitability letter and key policy documentation which made 
clear the nature and operation of the investment and why it was suitable.
Mrs and Mr R remained invested in the bond until 2011 which doesnt suggest that 
they had any issues with it.    
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
In the absence of any point of sale documentation shes considered whats likely to 
have happened based on the available evidence. 
That said, in the absence of a fact find or suitability letter its not possible to know 
what Mrs and Mr Rs risk attitude was, or what their objectives were.
Shes unable to blame Santander for not having more information about advice that 
was given over 20 years ago.  Theres no rule to say that it shouldve retained the 
information relating to the sale of the bond. 
The Key Feature Document (KFD) made clear that the recommendation was suitable 
for balanced risk investors. It also made clear what the fund was made up of. 
Despite what the CMC says, without any further evidence, its difficult to know what 
level of risk Mrs and Mr R were willing to take with their money. 
Despite what the CMC says about their lack of investment experience, its apparent 
that they had an investment with Santander prior to investing in 2000. But even if 
they were first time investors it doesnt of itself mean that the recommendation was 
unsuitable. 
Shes not persuaded that Mrs and Mr R had invested 100% of their available capital, 
as the investment was left intact for more than a decade.  
On the face of the (limited) available evidence, shes unable to safely say that the 
recommendation was unsuitable.   
The CMC disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, it said:
Considering Mrs and Mr Rs recollection, it would be appropriate to conclude that the 
advice was unsuitable.
Only Mr R held an investment  a Personal Equity Plan (PEP)  with Santander, but 
this didnt mean he had any meaningful experience.  
The investment was taken out (under) four years prior to the recommendation. It was 
for £25 a month initially, increasing to £50 a month in 1998 and was paid for using his 
income. 
Mr R would need to hold the investment for five years to constitute experience, but 
he held it for four years during a consistent growth period so wouldnt have been 
aware of the ups and downs of the financial markets.   
In March 2000, Mr R stopped paying into the PEP, and in July 2000 he withdrew 
£1,600. In November 2004, Mr R withdrew the balance which was another £5,100. 
This evidence shows that the recommendation was unsuitable.  
Our investigator having considered the additional information but wasnt persuaded to 
change her mind. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what the CMC says, Im unable to 
safely say that the recommendation was unsuitable for Mrs and Mr R. In other words, I dont 
have the evidence to safely reach the conclusion that the recommendation was unsuitable.   
The CMC has provided submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully. However, I hope Mrs and Mr R wont take the fact my findings focus on 
what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised, its not what Im required 
to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt 
mean Im not considering the pertinent points. 
My role is to consider the evidence presented by the CMC and Santander, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case, rather 
than take any sides. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats 
more likely than not to have happened. 
Despite what the CMC says, I dont agree that based on what we know of Mrs and Mr R, and 
the product, it strongly suggests that the advice was unsuitable. 
In the circumstances, Im unable to blame Santander for not having more information about 
the sale. Financial businesses arent required to retain information indefinitely. I note that the 
advice was given over 20 years ago, and the investment was surrendered over 10 years 
ago, so its unlikely that Santander can provide any more information than it has.  
I appreciate that in 2000 a fact find will have been completed and Mrs and Mr R will have 
been advised based on their financial circumstances. I also note that they will have been 
provided with a KFD that made reasonably clear the nature and operation of the bond and 
the fund make up. But in the circumstances, Im unable to comment upon whether the 
recommendation was unsuitable given their attitude to risk, or their objectives, because this 
information isnt available. 
I note the CMC says that at most they were cautious investors  and they mightve been  
but on the face of the available evidence, I simply cant assume this to be the case. 
I appreciate that Mrs and Mr R dont appear to be experienced investors, but Mr R wasnt 
without investment experience. I note he had a PEP from around 1996, which appears to be 
an opportunity for him to invest in the stockmarket, without (potentially) having to pay any 
tax. Despite what the CMC says I dont know if Mrs and Mr R had other investments. 
I cant say that the PEP  possibly Mr Rs only investment with Santander  wasnt 
considered when the advice was given in terms of his overall financial situation and 
affordability.   
 
I appreciate the points the CMC makes about the withdrawals from the PEP but its not clear 
why Mr R withdrew the money, if thats what he did. I also dont know if this was something 
the adviser in 2000 was aware of (and therefore part of a planned withdrawal) or if it was as 
a result of unforeseen circumstances that the adviser couldnt have foreseen at the point of 
sale  in which I cant blame Santander. 
  
Notwithstanding the above, and despite what the CMC says, Im unable to safely say that 
Mrs and Mr R invested 100% of their available capital into the bond. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest that this was the case and I cant assume this to be the case.  
I note that Mrs and Mr R remained invested in the bond for just over 10 years which 
suggests that they probably didnt need that money, but whether or not this was down to 
planning or good fortune on balance I simply cant tell. 
I appreciate Mrs and Mr R will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want to hear. But on the face 
of the (limited) available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint and 
give them what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman