DRN-3774486
Complaint
Mr C has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mr C bought solar panels for his home in 2016. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mr C into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mr Cs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the benefits of 
the panels were mis-represented to Mr C, and that fair redress would be for the loan to be 
restructured to make the panels cost no more than the benefit they would provide over a ten-
year period. This restructure should be based on evidence of the actual performance of the 
panels, and a number of assumptions on future performance. 
Ikano didnt agree explaining it felt the documents had made it clear that the solar panels 
would not be self-funding. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to an 
ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand Ikano says that the cost of the system and his monthly payment was set out on 
the credit agreement. It adds that the total estimated annual benefit of £258.65 was also 
clearly set out on an estimated returns page. Ikano says this ought to have made Mr C 
aware that the panels would not be self-funding. It further added that the general sales 
literature also had a table showing consumers wouldnt receive any accumulated benefit until 
year 11. 
I have reviewed the documents referred to by Ikano and it seems that the estimated returns 
page is contained inside a booklet of other information. Additionally, theres nothing on this 
document the mentions the finance, the likely monthly or yearly repayments or the term of 
the loan. So, in order to compare the benefits with the cost, Mr C would still have to look at 
his finance agreement and calculate the yearly payments to deduce that that the estimated 
annual benefits would unlikely cover the cost of the annual loan payments.
I think given Mr Cs lack of experience in solar panels and energy generation figures, its not 
reasonable to expect him to carry out an in-depth review of multiple documents, learn what 
the facts and figures meant and carry out calculations to decipher that the solar panels 
would not be self-funding. 
I think its fair for Mr C to rely on the sales representative to take him through this information 
and he was entitled to rely on what he was being told. Mr Cs testimony has been clear and 
consistent, so in my view, its reliable evidence of what he was likely told during the sale. And 
he says he was assured the solar panels would be self-funding. 
I would add that the general sales literature that Ikano has referred to showing the 
accumulated benefits table is not specific to Mr Cs circumstances, and Ive seen nothing to 
show that he was taken through this document or that it was explained to him what the 
different columns meant. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that the documents were clear enough to demonstrate that it was 
made clear to Mr C that the solar panel system would not be self-funding. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mr C was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for him.
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mr C fairly and he lost out because of what Ikano did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Mr C
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mr C from the solar panels 
over a 10-year period so he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, 
and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr C is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Ikano needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr C by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mr Cs loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr C in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over a 10-year period.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mr C have the following options as to how he 
would like his overpayments to be used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, C. the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he continues to make his current monthly 
payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr C and he pays a new monthly payment until the 
end of the loan term.
If Mr C accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr C has settled the loan, Ikano should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr C has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr C paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr C paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr C receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr C the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr C first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman