DRN-3245408
The complaint
The estates of Mr and Mrs O complain that BUPA Insurance Limited continued to collect     
subscriptions relating to their private medical insurance when their membership was no 
longer suitable for them and after their membership had been cancelled.   
The estate of Mr O is represented by his administrator, Mr O1. The estate of Mrs O is 
represented by her administrators, Mr O1 and Mrs F. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, following Mr Os death in April 2016, Mr O1 discovered that       
Mr and Mrs Os private medical insurance was still in place. Mr O1 believed that              
Mr and Mrs Os membership had been cancelled following Mr Os unsuccessful operation 
in January 2011, which left Mr O housebound and not in a position to take up private 
medical treatment. Mr O1 says that Mrs O was equally frail and unable to take up private 
medical treatment. 
Mr O1 says that he found an entry in Mr Os diary which suggests that Mr O phoned BUPA 
on 16 February 2011 and spoke with an adviser, which he says supports his position that 
Mr O cancelled the membership in 2011. 
Mr O1 says that BUPA shouldnt have continued to collect payment, as the membership 
was no longer suitable for Mr and Mrs Os needs. He says that BUPA continued to collect 
payment after Mr Os death in April 2016. Mr O1 wants BUPA to reimburse the 
subscriptions it collected from January 2011.
BUPA says that Mr Os membership was cancelled from 1 April 2016, after it was told 
about his death and that Mrs Os membership was cancelled from 1 July 2016, after       
Mr O1 told it about her health. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Mr O1 didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the 
investigator hadnt taken into account the seriousness of Mr and Mrs Os medical 
conditions. Mr O1 said that his assertions about the phone call made by Mr O in 
February 2011 had been dismissed. He said that BUPA had collected premiums after  
Mr Os death.
The investigator considered what Mr O1 said but didnt change her view. As there was 
no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mr O1 in particular has strong feelings about this 
matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint. Ive read through all 
this carefully and taken it all into consideration when making my decision. I trust that neither 
Mr O1 nor Mrs F will take as a discourtesy that I concentrate on what I think are the central 
issues in the case.
the relevant membership terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the membership, the relevant parts of which 
say as follows: 
Renewing your membership
Our agreement is an annual one and your membership may be renewed each year on your 
renewal date, subject to the rule Making changes in this section.
Your membership will renew automatically as long as you continue to pay your 
subscriptions and any other charges unless:
you decide to end your membership
we decide to end the scheme, []
How membership can end
You can end your membership or the membership of any of your dependants at any time 
by calling us on [] or writing to us. We will refund any subscriptions you have paid which 
relate to a period after your or your dependants cover ends. []
did BUPA act unfairly?
Im not upholding this complaint because I dont think that BUPA acted unfairly. I say that 
because:
Based on what Ive seen, this was a non-advised sale. That means that BUPA wasnt 
required to assess whether membership was suitable for Mr and Mrs O. BUPA was 
required to give Mr and Mrs O enough information to enable them to make an 
informed decision. 
Mr and Mrs Os membership renewed annually. BUPA sent out renewal documents 
each year, so it was open to Mr and Mrs O to decide whether they no longer needed 
the membership. 
Mr O1 says he found a diary entry which suggests that Mr O phoned BUPA in 
February 2011 and noted the first name of the person he spoke with. We asked 
BUPA about this. BUPA says that it has no record of a call from Mr O on that date. It 
has provided its contact  notes which dont show a phone call from Mr O on the date 
mentioned by Mr O1. 
Where things are not clear, and evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of 
it is here  I make my findings on what I think is most likely to be the case. I take into 
account the evidence available to me and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
On balance, I dont think that I can safely conclude that Mr O cancelled the 
membership in February 2011. BUPA has no record of him doing so. At that time,   
Mr O had recently had unsuccessful surgery. I doubt that BUPA membership was   
Mr Os prime concern at that point. And I note that Mr O didnt query subsequent 
payments to BUPA, although I appreciate that he may not have been well enough to 
do so.BUPA cancelled Mr Os membership when it was informed of his death. It cancelled 
Mrs Os membership when it was informed about her health. BUPA has refunded 
payments it collected after Mr Os death but before it was notified of the death. I think 
thats sufficient in relation to this aspect of the complaint. 
I dont think that BUPA acted unfairly or unreasonably in refusing to backdate 
cancellation to 2011. There are no grounds on which I can fairly ask BUPA to 
backdate the cancellation of membership.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of     
Mrs O and Mr O to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman