DRN-1968042
The complaint
Miss T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund the money she lost after falling 
victim to a scam.
What happened
Miss T is a sole trader and runs a creative business. She took out a small business loan to 
fund a project and needed a book printer to print and deliver books before publishing. She 
found a company on the internet and decided to go ahead.
On 31 October 2017 Miss T transferred £2450.63 into her business account and then 
immediately sent it to a new payee. She was expecting the books to be delivered on 
10 November 2017, but they did not arrive. The printer kept giving her excuses. 
On 12 January 2018, Miss T contacted HSBC. The bank said it was unable to reimburse the 
payment Miss T had made because shed authorised it. It suggested it might be a dispute 
between Miss T and the book printer that was meant to supply the service. Miss T contacted 
HSBC again on 23 January 2018 and said it was a scam. HSBC then tried to recover the 
money she had sent, but the beneficiary bank confirmed no funds remained. HSBC said 
there was nothing more it could do to help. 
Miss T was unhappy with the banks position and raised a complaint. After hearing nothing, 
she contacted the bank in May 2018 to chase the matter up. She also reported the matter to 
the Police and learned of other people that had fallen victim too. 
On 1 June 2018, HSBC issued its final response letter. It offered Miss T £100 compensation 
to acknowledge the bank had provided a poor level of customer service but maintained its 
overall decision to not refund the payment shed made. 
Miss T didnt agree with the banks response. She was concerned that she may have lost out 
as a result of the bank initially treating the transaction as a dispute with a supplier and not a 
scam. She was disappointed with the lack of protection for bank transfers and hoped that 
more could be done. 
HSBC issued a further final response on 13 September 2019. It said Miss Ts payment was 
made before new rules to refund victims of Authorised Push Payment scams were 
introduced. As HSBCs position remained unchanged, Miss T contacted this service. 
When HSBC provided its file to us, it increased its offer for poor service by a further £150, 
taking it to £250 overall. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but he didnt recommend that HSBC 
should refund the money Miss T had sent. He thought Miss T had given a valid instruction to 
the bank to make the payment. He didnt consider the payment to be unusual enough that it 
should have been stopped for further investigation. He also noted Miss T didnt interact with 
bank staff at the time the payment was made, so concluded HSBC did not miss a clear 
opportunity to find out more about the payment she was making. Overall, he thought HSBC 
had not make a mistake by making the payment and was satisfied the bank did enough to try 
and recover the money.
Miss T didnt agree with the investigators opinion. She said the payment was unusual for her 
as it was the first time shed made a faster payment. She explained other victims had been 
able to recover their money and thought shed lost out because HSBC did not treat the 
payment as a scam when she initially raised the matter. Miss T felt HSBC should have 
provided her with more protection and said that if Confirmation of Payee had been in place 
at the time, the suspicious activity would have been uncovered. Miss T also made reference 
to a new agreement that major banks are following to refund customers that have been the 
victim of a scam. She felt the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code should be 
backdated and it was unfair for HSBC not to honour the CRM Code in this case. 
Our investigator contacted the beneficiary bank. It confirmed all of the funds Miss T had sent 
were removed on 1 November 2017, so no money remained when Miss T first contacted 
HSBC. As no agreement could be reached, Miss T asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Miss T and I can understand why she wants to do all 
that she can to try and recover the money shes lost. Its a lot of money for anyone to lose 
and Im mindful that she remains responsible for making the repayments towards the loan 
she took out. But having thought very carefully about HSBCs actions, I think it did act fairly 
and reasonably in allowing the payment to be made. I also think it did enough to try and 
recover funds from the beneficiary bank. So I dont think it needs to reimburse Miss T with 
the money she lost or offer any further compensation. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises it to make. When Miss T made the payment of 
£2450.63, she sent the money in good faith and didnt know she was dealing with a 
fraudster. But this was still an authorised payment as Miss T used her security credentials 
to set up and request the payment. Although she did not intend for the money to go to a 
fraudster, under the Payment Services Regulations 2009 which were in force at the time, 
Miss T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
In this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss T when it processed a payment of just over £2,450 to a new payee and when she 
reported the problem with the payment, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Miss T doesnt dispute she made the payment herself without any interaction with the banks 
staff. Because of this, HSBC had an obligation to follow her instruction and make the 
payment she requested. But there are some situations in which it should reasonably have 
had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer. As Ive explained, I consider 
that as a matter of good practice HSBC shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of 
character transactions. 
So, Ive first thought about whether the payment Miss T made was out of character and 
unusual enough so that HSBC ought to have intervened. There is a delicate balance to be 
struck. There are many millions of payments made each day and it would not be possible or 
reasonable to expect a bank to check each one. Miss T has pointed out that shed never 
made a faster payment from this account before. Her bank statements in the six months 
leading up to the payment confirm that making faster payments wasnt something she 
typically did. Even though this transfer was for more than Miss T typically spends, I dont 
think that alone is enough to say HSBC should have treated the payment as suspicious. Its 
not uncommon for a customer to make a one off payment in connection with their business, 
or to move money around specifically for that purpose. Its also not unusual for Miss Ts 
account to operate with a lower balance, so Im not persuaded that her activity that day 
should have stood out. I dont think HSBC acted unreasonably by not making enquiries 
about this transaction before processing it. This means it didnt do anything wrong by 
following the instructions Miss T gave and sending the money without further checks. 
Ive then gone on to think about whether HSBC did what it shouldve done once Miss T 
alerted it to a potential problem with the payment. For me to be able to fairly ask HSBC to 
refund the money to Miss T, Id need to be satisfied that HSBC should have acted to try and 
recover the money sooner and, if I dont think it acted soon enough, I need to decide 
whether it made any difference. Miss T first contacted HSBC to explain shed not received 
the books on 12 January 2018, but HSBC didnt contact the beneficiary bank until 
23 January 2018. I can see why Miss T feels she could have lost out. But I dont think the 
way HSBC approached the matter impacted on the opportunity to recover the funds in this 
case. Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to say that none of Miss Ts funds 
remained. Ive seen evidence to show that all of the funds were removed from the 
beneficiary account on 1 November 2017. If HSBC had contacted the beneficiary bank as 
soon as Miss T raised concerns, the result would have been the same. Typically fraudsters 
will act to remove funds from an account as soon as they are able to, often within minutes of 
a payment being made. I dont think the way HSBC handled the situation has caused Miss T 
to lose out. Miss T feels HSBC should have provided her with more protection. Shes mentioned new 
developments such as Confirmation of Payee and says they would have uncovered the 
suspicious activity if they had been in place. But at the time Miss T made the payment, 
banks werent required to check the name on an account. So Im unable to fairly say that 
HSBC should have checked the account name before making this payment. 
Miss T has also mentioned the CRM Code and suggests it should be backdated to apply in 
her case. She has suggested that it would be fair for the bank to do this in her case because 
it ignored her correspondence about the CRM Code for a long time. But the CRM code came 
into effect on 28 May 2019. It isnt retrospective, so Im not able to say HSBC should 
consider reimbursing Miss T under the provisions of the CRM Code when it doesnt apply to 
the payment she made. 
I have considerable sympathy for what Miss T has been through. She took out a loan in 
order to see her project come to fruition and I understand the whole experience will have 
been frustrating and upsetting for her. There is no doubt that she has been the victim of a 
cruel scam and that the fraudster had no intention of providing the services she had paid for. 
But I am only able to consider whether HSBC can fairly be held liable for her loss. 
After carefully considering everything, Im unable to fairly say HSBC should have done more 
to prevent her from losing this money. So I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to refund 
the loss. 
I note that HSBC had offered to pay Miss T a total of £250 compensation to acknowledge its 
poor service and failure to respond to her further correspondence. Miss T should contact 
HSBC directly if she now wishes to accept this. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman