DRN-1741863
 
The complaint
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA), as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA as the seller in my 
decision.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs B took out on a store card account in August 2003. 
It was added to her account when she applied for the card in store.
Mrs B says she was not made aware PPI had been added. She thinks AXA mis-sold the 
policy to her.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs B has said she was unaware PPI was added. But I think AXA made Mrs B aware that 
she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it. I say this because AXA 
has given us a copy of the store card application form from the time of sale. This shows 
there was a separate section for PPI and that it is presented as optional. 
It says on the separate section for PPI: only sign this box if you require account cover. Mrs 
B then signs next to this statement. Had Mrs B not wanted the PPI she could have 
completed the application without signing separately for it.
So, on balance, I think Mrs B was aware the policy was optional and she agreed to take it 
out by signing the separate section on the application form.
This application was made by Mrs B completing an application in a store. So because of this, 
I dont think a recommendation was made by AXA. So AXA didnt have to check if the policy 
was suitable for her. But it still needed to make sure it gave Mrs B enough information so 
she could make an informed choice whether the policy was right for her.Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs B would have acted differently and not bought the policy, 
if better information had been provided. And on balance I dont think better information 
wouldve led her to act differently.
Mrs B has told us she is unaware what sick pay entitlement she would have received. I think 
taking into consideration what Mrs B has said about her circumstances, the PPI would have 
been useful to her in that her store card payments would be met. I also couldnt see any 
significant or limiting terms that would have affected Mrs Bs decision to take the policy out 
either. Mrs B says she was self employed at the time of sale but I dont think the terms given 
in the policy were likely to make it difficult for her to make a claim if she needed to. 
Im not sure AXA gave clear information on the costs of the PPI policy, but I dont think this 
would have affected Mrs Bs decision to take out the policy for the reasons I have already 
given.
I know this will be a disappointment for Mrs B but I havent found a reason to uphold her 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman