DRN-2578984
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs S complaint about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) relates to 
their request to switch their mortgage to an interest only mortgage.
 
What happened
Mr C was made redundant in or around May 2019 and has been struggling with his health. 
Mr C and Mrs S told Halifax that they intended to sell their home and asked for their 
mortgage to be converted to an interest only mortgage until the property was sold. They 
explained that their income had fallen, and they were having to use their savings to meet the 
mortgage repayments.
Halifax said that their policy was not to offer interest only as a temporary concession 
although in this particular case they had considered it. But, as Mr C and Mrs S did not have 
a recognised repayment vehicle in place pending the sale of their property, they could not 
convert the mortgage to interest only. Also, Halifax said that Mr C and Mrs S had their 
savings which they could use.
Halifax also said that Mr C and Mrs S could either make no repayments for two months or 
reduced payments for three months but that would also mean their credit file would show 
adverse entries as their account would fall into arrears.
Mr C and Mrs S were unhappy with Halifaxs final response and so approached this service 
to see if we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that Halifax hadnt 
acted unfairly as they were operating within their policy and so did not uphold the complaint.
Mr C and Mrs S didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr C and Mrs S would begin to feel that their finances were becoming tight 
when they first called Halifax. This was about three months after Mr C was made redundant 
and his monthly salary had stopped. Mrs S is retired and below the state pension age and so 
has no income either. At that time, they had between them some modest savings which 
would have been sufficient to service the mortgage for about 13 months, although naturally it 
would also have been required for other day to day living expenses.
Mr C and Mrs S put their property onto the market in May 2020 and obtained a buyer for it. 
Sadly, the sale fell through on 1 December 2020 and the property is I expect back on the 
market. Since making their request to Halifax, Mr C and Mrs S have had a Covid mortgage 
deferral for 3 months and maintained their mortgage payments so that their account is up to 
date. They did this by borrowing from close friends and family and using their savings, and 
which of course, in respect of their savings, I expect have been used for other daily living 
expenses too.
In the circumstances which have arisen here, Id expect Halifax to discuss with Mr C and Mrs 
S their circumstances and I can see that this is what in fact they did, because it resulted in 
the mortgage holiday or reduced payments offer being made. But I do understand why this 
option was unattractive to Mr C and Mrs S because it wouldve resulted in adverse entries 
upon their respective credit files.
But, Mr C and Mrs S also told Halifax that their problem was a short-term problem because 
they intended to sell their property. They had in mind putting the property on the market in 
the spring of 2020 which in fact they subsequently did. And whilst they anticipated their 
problem as being only short term they could not have predicted the effects of Covid 19.
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB) sets out the 
rules, evidential provisions and guidance, applicable to firms providing mortgages and home 
finance. MCOB 13 provides that a firm must, when dealing with any customer in payment 
difficulties consider whether, given the individual circumstances of the customer, it is 
appropriate to do one of a number of things. In Mr C and Mrs Ss case I think the relevant 
aspect was to consider changing the mortgage to interest only.
Halifax have said that this option was outside their policy because Mr C and Mrs S didnt 
have a suitable repayment vehicle in place and also that they had savings they could fall 
back on. I can understand Halifaxs policy in relation to the repayment vehicle in general 
terms, but in Mr C and Mrs Ss case they were not asking to switch to interest only for the 
rest of the term, rather for only a short period to allow them to sell their home. I also note that 
Mr C and Mrs S have over 50% equity in the property and so Halifaxs security is not at any
great risk.
I do take account that Mr C and Mrs S had savings to fall back on and it appears they have 
used those and are now having to look to their close friends and family for help in order to 
live and make the monthly mortgage repayments. And I can see that they didnt fall into 
arrears, so it is clear that they were very keen to avoid having any adverse entries on their 
credit file.
So, Ive taken account of both sides views here in considering whether Halifax have acted 
fairly and reasonably, and I dont think they have. Whilst I appreciate Halifax have their 
policy, I think it would have been reasonable and fair to expect them to step outside that 
policy for a short period of say 12 months, which, in ordinary circumstances, ought to have 
been enough time for the property to have sold. I know that matters have now moved on 
more than 12 months, but the position for Mr C and Mrs S has become more acute. Granting 
a transfer to interest only for 12 months is very likely to result in Mr C and Mrs S having 
sufficient time to sell their property and it is not going to impact upon Halifaxs security.
Putting things right
I issued my Provisional Decision on the 20 January 2021 and said that Halifax should switch 
Mr C and Mrs S to an interest only mortgage for a period to 12 months. In addition, I said 
Halifax should pay Mr C and Mrs S £400 compensation. I also thought about whether Halifax 
should also make any retrospective changes to the mortgage given the length of time thats 
passed since Mr C and Mrs Ss initial request. My provisional view was that as Mr C and Mrs 
S managed to make the monthly payments, I wasnt persuaded it would be in their interests 
to retrospectively convert the mortgage back to interest only. Mr C and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision, as did Halifax although they raised a 
point about what might happen if Mr C and Mrs S property is not sold within 12 months. Ive 
considered that and I think 12 months will be sufficient time for the property to be sold, but in 
the unlikely event that its not Halifax will be able to carry out another review of Mr C and Mrs 
S circumstances to agree upon what might be the best way forward for the mortgage. 
So, my final decision will be along the lines of my provisional decision although I want to 
make it clear that the switch to an interest only mortgage is temporary and should only be for 
a 12 month period.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I instruct Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax to switch Mr C and 
Mrs S mortgage to interest only for a temporary period of 12 months from the date of this 
decision.
Halifax shall pay Mr C and Mrs S compensation of £400 for distress and inconvenience 
which I think is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman