DRN-3400456
The complaint
Ms K complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) refused to let her 
reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
It has been agreed by all parties that the car was faulty at the point of sale and rejection is 
the best option. Having read the evidence I consider that to be a fair and reasonable 
conclusion. The remaining issue for me to decide is the amount of redress due.
BMWFS has said that £1,000 of the deposit paid by Ms K was for alloy wheel insurance and 
was not part of the finance agreement and so this should not be returned to her. I have 
reviewed the evidence and I see that Ms K paid £1,000 on 8 June 2021 and the invoice 
records: £1,000 paid not assigned.  Ms K then paid £12,500 on 25 June 2021. 
The finance quote dated 7 June 2021 says that the cash price is £74,735 of which £13,500 
will be paid as a deposit and the balance will be covered by finance from BMWFS. Ms K has 
also produced an extract from the order which shows that she had not chosen the wheel 
insurance option. She says that was thrown in by the dealer as part of the package.
It seems that the dealer chose to allocate the initial deposit of £1,000 to wheel insurance and 
I am satisfied that this was done without Ms Ks knowledge. As far as she was concerned 
she had paid a deposit of £13,500. It would appear that the dealer chose to allocate 
payments in a manner which suited it and I dont believe that means that Ms K should be 
denied the return of her full deposit.
BMWFS has also challenged the award of £800 for the distress and inconvenience suffered 
by Ms K. It had previously offered £660 which is one months payments but has said this 
was before rejection had been contemplated. I have noted the emotional distress suffered by 
Ms K and it is clear that this matter has taken quite some time to resolve. It has also caused 
a significant emotional toll on Ms K. However, I think the amount proposed is slightly more 
than I would normally award so I am minded to determine it at £700. I am aware Ms K 
wishes this matter to be resolved without delay and so I do not consider I need to issue a 
provisional decision because of this minor alternation which would delay matters by over a 
month and add to her distress.
Finally, I have concluded there is no reason to extend the 30% reduction beyond the months 
set out by our investigator. I consider that is sufficient to reflect the situation and I consider 
the overall redress is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Ms K should be allowed the reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to:
end the agreement without further cost,
arrange for collection of the car at no cost to Ms K,
refund the full deposit,
pay her £700.00 for the distress and inconvenience she has suffered.
refund 30% of her monthly payments for the months of October, November, 
December 2021, and January 2022,
remove any adverse markers on her credit file if any have been made,
pay annual interest at 8% simple on any refunded payments from the date paid until 
repaid.
HM Revenue & Customs requires BMWFS to take off tax from this interest. BMWFS must 
give Ms K a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman