DRN-2763262
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Leeds Building Society (LBS) mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs M in 1995 in connection with a 
joint mortgage. The policy provided Mr and Mrs M with cover for accident, sickness and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If LBS gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
- Did LBS give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy? If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to 
consider whether Mr and Mrs M are worse off as a result. That is, would they have 
done something different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been 
any problems with the sale? 
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs M say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI, and were told they had to 
buy the policy to get the mortgage they wanted. They say LBS didnt give them a proper 
choice about buying the PPI. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs M have said. 
The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between Mr and Mrs M and 
LBS when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place over twenty five 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
LBS hasnt provided much information from the point of sale, which isnt surprising given the 
amount of time thats passed. But its provided samples of the documents that were in use at 
the time Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage. This includes a PPI application form that 
appears to have been separate to the mortgage application. I think its more likely than not 
that Mr and Mrs M wouldve completed a similar form when they arranged their mortgage 
and the PPI. 
From what Ive seen, there wasnt anything in the PPI application form to suggest that buying 
the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage. So without anything else to support what Mr 
and Mrs M have told me, I dont think I can fairly and reasonably say that LBS didnt give 
them a choice about buying the PPI.
LBS accepts that it advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
- Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI 
terms and conditions. 
- Mr and Mrs M say they would have received some work-related benefits if they 
couldnt work due to sickness or accident, and that they had savings they couldve 
used to cover their mortgage repayments.
But the policy would have paid out in addition to their occupational benefits and 
would mean Mr and Mrs M could use those benefits and their savings to pay for other 
expenses. 
So I think Mr and Mrs M would have had some use for the policy despite their 
existing arrangements. 
- Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations. 
- I cant be sure that the cost of the PPI was made clear to Mr and Mrs M before they 
agreed to buy it. But they bought the policy knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was reasonably priced and Ive seen nothing to suggest it 
that the benefit wasnt enough to cover their monthly mortgage repayments. So I 
dont think Mr and Mrs M would have made a different decision about buying the 
policy if theyd had better information about its cost.
Its possible the information the lender gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. But they chose to take out the policy and so appear to 
have wanted this type of cover. As Ive already said, Mr and Mrs M werent affected 
by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was reasonably priced. So I 
think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have made a different decision if better 
information had been provided  overall, I think they would still have taken out the 
policy.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman