DRN-2729459
The complaint
Mr B complains HSBC UK Bank Plc were unhelpful when his son, Mr B Jnr, called it to 
enquire about a replacement cheque book.
Mr B is represented by Mr B Jnr.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is an elderly gentleman with underlying health conditions. During the pandemic he was 
supported, with things like getting groceries, by his children. To pay his way he would give 
his children cheques. By June 2020 hed used his final cheque and had yet to receive a 
replacement cheque book. Mr B Jnr called HSBC, with his father present, to ask if a 
replacement cheque book had been sent. I commend Mr B Jnr for the assistance he was 
giving his father at a difficult time. Mr B Jnr, however, had no authority over Mr Bs account. 
He wasnt, for example, a power of attorney or registered with third party authority. 
During Mr B Jnrs first call to HSBC he explained that because of social distancing he 
couldnt pass his father the phone and so to facilitate security questions he would rely them 
and Mr B would shout the answers. Unfortunately, an answer was incorrect and so the agent 
explained a letter would be sent to Mr B with a security number and he would need to call to 
verify himself. I think it was reasonable for HSBC to decide it wanted to take steps to further 
verify Mr B given incorrect details were provided and security had been undertaken in an 
unusual - albeit at face value, a justifiable - manner. The call was cut off. Its unknown why.
Mr B Jnr called back. The agent said, in summary, that telephone security was suspended, it 
couldnt be reset over the phone and a letter had been sent to Mr B so he could call in with a 
security number to verify himself. She went on to say a cheque book couldnt be ordered 
while security was suspended. I think this was reasonable and it follows, logically, from what 
had happened on the previous call. The agent didnt recommend Mr B attend a branch as 
Mr B Jnr has suggested. Instead, she gave Mr B Jnr the available options  for Mr B to 
attend a branch or wait for the letter with the security number. I agree the call was a lengthy 
one. This was because the agent was seeking advice on ways to help and because Mr B Jnr 
was persistent in his desire to order a replacement cheque book for his father. In the end 
Mr B Jnr complained, which the agent logged. Im satisfied with the accuracy of the 
information HSBC gave in the call, and with the way the call was handled. 
HSBC called Mr B a few days later. Mr B said hed since received a replacement cheque 
book. Mr B was told if he had an urgent need he could call and go through additional security 
questions to try to verify himself, but that he couldnt be verified that day. HSBC also said 
when the security number arrived in the post, he could call to re-set his security. Mr B 
appears to have been satisfied with the content and outcome of the call.
Overall, I can understand Mr B Jnrs frustration. Calling to order a cheque book for his father 
wouldnt necessarily feel like a security risk. But HSBC has a responsibility to protect 
account holders though adequate security processes and these, by their nature, can be 
annoying and inconvenient, as Mr B Jnr has discovered. But HSBC hasnt acted unfairly or 
unreasonably here.
Im pleased Mr B received the replacement cheque book he needed. My understanding is 
his telephone security is still suspended. I would suggest he takes steps to address this.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman