DRN-2174690
The complaint
Ms P complains about her application to open a regular savings account (RSA) with HSBC 
Bank UK Plc trading as First Direct.
What happened
Ms P complains that when she opened a regular savings account (RSA) with First Direct 
she understood shed be told when the account was opened. She says she only found out 
the account had been opened when she saw £300.00 was taken out of the account and it 
wasnt until around a week later that she received a letter to confirm the account had been 
opened.
Ms P also found out that the payment from her current account to her RSA was set up for 
23rd of every month and this date couldnt be changed. And she says she was told the 
payment date could only be changed if she closed her RSA and opened a new account.
Ms P is also unhappy with the way First Direct handled her complaint. She believes it hasnt 
addressed her concerns and shes also unhappy it didnt receive the full correspondence she 
sent through its secure messaging system This meant Ms P spent considerable time 
searching her records in order to submit her complaint points again.
To settle the complaint Ms P would like First Direct to accept it didnt behave appropriately 
and for a full unconditional apology.
Ms P complained to First Direct but it didnt uphold her complaint for the reasons set out in 
its final response letter and known to the parties  so I wont repeat them here.
Ms P is unhappy with First Directs response. Ive summarised Ms Ps concerns below in 
considerably less detail and using my own words to do so.
although First Direct wrote to her on 23 January 2020 to tell her it had opened her 
account, she didnt receive notification of this until several days later;
it wasnt made clear to her that she couldnt select the day for payment of the 
standing order;
customers have no control over when money is transferred from one account to 
another and if First Direct is relying on its terms and conditions these are 
unreasonable;
around the same time, Ms P opened accounts with other banks who were quickly 
able to provide confirmation of account opening and account documentation;
Ms P is also unhappy that First Direct responded to her complaint by a phone call 
when she was asked to give answers to security questions before being told the 
reason for the call.
When our investigator looked into Ms Ps complaint they didnt recommend it should be 
upheld. Ms P disagrees with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms P for the detailed points she has provided to our service. Id like to reassure her 
that Ive considered her comments carefully. As an informal dispute resolution service we 
must reach a fair and reasonable conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is 
not necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to concentrate on what I consider 
are the main issues.
I can see that Ms P is concerned about the way First Direct handled her complaint. Strictly 
speaking, we dont have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with complaint 
handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our service. So, 
even if I thought First Direct hadnt dealt with Ms Ps complaint well, I wouldnt be able to 
uphold that element of her concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the rules that 
govern our service so I wont spend any time on this part of Ms Ps complaint.
The application process and the RSA key features detailed on First Directs website say that 
once an application is complete the account will be opened within three working days. Ive 
seen confirmation that First Direct opened Ms Ps account on 23 January 2020 and it also 
confirmed her account had been opened by letter dated 23 January 2020. I appreciate Ms P 
says she didnt receive this letter until one week later and that other businesses were able to 
confirm account opening more quickly. However, I can only consider First Directs position in 
this decision.
Based on the information Ive seen I think First Direct acted fairly because it sent a letter to 
Ms P confirming her account had been opened and dated on the same day the account 
was opened. The application documentation didnt require First Direct to send this out first 
class and I cant fairly hold First Direct responsible for any delay in postal delivery.
I realise Ms P has concerns that the customer journey information provided by First Direct is 
not the same as the information available to her at the time she applied for her account. I 
dont have any way of knowing what information was available to her at the time but in any 
event although Ms P is unhappy that she didnt find out her account had been opened until 
some time later, I cant say she was financially disadvantaged by this. I say this because the 
information available to me shows that the payment required to open her RSA account was 
remitted from her current account to her RSA on account opening where it began to earn 
interest in accordance with the terms and conditions of the RSA - irrespective of the date on 
which First Direct informed her the account had been opened.
I also appreciate its not ideal that Ms P isnt able to choose or change the date on which 
payments are collected from her current account and paid into her RSA.
Ms P feels strongly that since the payment is described as a standing order, she should be 
able to change the date on which it is collected. Its not the role of our service to make 
findings on the legal definition of whether Ms Ps payment is a standing order or direct debit 
but I can, and have looked at whether I think First Direct treated her fairly.
Based on the information available to me I cant find that First Direct treated Ms P unfairly 
because the screen shots of the application process provided by First Direct make clear that: 
once your account is opened well take your first payment straight away and the terms and 
conditions of the account and the information on First Directs website also make clear that 
the payment date cant be changed once an account is opened. I can also see that First Direct has explained to Ms P that if the payment date isnt convenient then the RSA can be 
closed and re-applied for  which I think is reasonable in the circumstances.
I appreciate that this is not the outcome Ms P was hoping for but it brings to an end what we 
as an informal dispute resolution service can do to help to resolve her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman