DRN-4305017
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the way The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society 
Limited (NFU) dealt with his claim following damage to his car.
What happened
Mr B held a car insurance policy with NFU. 
In February 2023 Mr Bs car was damaged following an incident. Mr B contacted NFU to 
make a claim. NFU instructed an approved repairer (AR) to complete the repair work. When 
collecting his car from the AR, Mr B noticed that his multi-media system was not working. Mr 
B was told to wait a few days for system functionality to return. But the multi-media system 
still wasnt working a week on. 
Mr B took his car to an authorised dealer to have a diagnostics check carried out. The 
diagnostics report found:
Investigate media screen not working, carry out guided fault finding via odis. No 
communication with media unit. Remove glovebox and checks fuses, finding ok, 
remove media unit, check wiring and connections, all ok. Internal fault with media 
unit- new unit required. 
Mr B sent this to NFU, along with an estimate cost of repair for £2,698, asking them to pay 
for the cost of replacing the multi-media unit. NFU told Mr B they wouldnt be paying the cost 
of this, as the damage wasnt accident related, and it would not be the fault of out repairers 
that a fault manifested while in their possession.  
Unhappy with this response, Mr B complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. The 
investigator found that the service provided by NFU had been reasonable, as the evidence 
didnt support Mr Bs claim that the AR had damaged the multi-media system. The 
investigator didnt recommend NFU do anything to put things right.
Mr B didnt agree with these findings, saying All I can do is repeat that the media unit was 
functioning when my car was collected from my driveway by the repairers (following a check 
by them of my cars bodywork, mileage etc) and was not functioning when I collected the 
vehicle. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved it has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we investigate a complaint about an insurers decision on a claim, our role is to 
consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable manner. So Ive 
considered the evidence to determine whether NFU have acted fairly and reasonably in 
reaching their decision on Mr B claim. When evidence is contradictory or inconclusive (or 
both) I have to make a finding on the balance of probabilities. That is what I find is most 
likely to have happened in view of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Mr B feels strongly that the AR must be responsible for damaging his multi-media system as 
it was functioning fine before his car was collected for repair. Its not disputed that Mr Bs 
multi-media system was working correctly before it was sent to the AR. But I dont think the 
evidence reasonably supports that it was something the AR did, or failed to do, that caused 
Mr Bs multi-media system to stop working. 
In reaching this outcome Ive considered the findings of the diagnostics report completed by 
the independent main dealer. The diagnostics check was completed by an independent third 
party. So Im satisfied its reasonable to rely on this evidence when reaching an outcome for 
Mr Bs complaint.
The findings recorded that wiring and connections, [were] all ok. This reasonably supports 
NFUs position that the multi-media system was unlikely to have been impacted by any 
repair work completed. And from reading the diagnostics report, I agree. The diagnostics 
report shows that damage to the multi-media system was isolated, and so unlikely to be 
linked to any other issue with Mr Bs car. On balance this doesnt suggest that the work 
completed by the AR wouldve impacted the functionality of the multi-media system. 
I appreciate Mr Bs disappointment with this outcome. This situation has clearly left Mr B 
feeling stressed, upset, and financially out of pocket. But on balance, I dont think there is 
enough evidence to reasonably hold NFU responsible for Mr Bs multi-media system failing. 
As the damage to the multi-media system hasnt been identified as being caused by the AR, 
I think NFUs decision not to pay for this damage is reasonable. 
My final decision
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman