DRN-2854675
The complaint
 Mr R complains Capital Professional Limited (aka Bellpenny) trading as Ascot Lloyd has 
unfairly charges him ongoing adviser fees. He asks for the fees to be refunded.
What happened
 I set out the back ground to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity, I 
repeat it here.
In September 2014, Bellpenny took over the servicing of Mr Rs pension after acquiring his 
existing adviser firm. Mr R says he met with Bellpenny in May 2015 and at this stage he 
declined to agree to its terms of business. He says when with his previous adviser firm his 
funds were regularly reviewed, and he received monthly updates and he couldnt see if this 
would be the case. He wanted to compare the Bellpenny proposition with his earlier adviser 
agreement with T.
In October 2015, Mr R met with an adviser again. During this meeting, the adviser explained 
it would continue to take an ongoing fee of 0.75% from Mr Rs pension plan but in due 
course this fee wold rise to 1% in line with Bellpennys terms and conditions. The adviser 
went onto say as Mr Rs last review was in April 2013, it needed to carry out a full review to 
assess Mr Rs attitude to risk and his aims and objectives with a view to ensuring his current 
funds remained suitable. The adviser explained the cost of this review was 3% of Mr Rs 
current pension fund. Mr R refused to pay this fee and indicated he would move away from 
Bellpenny if the ongoing adviser fee increased to 1%.
Bellpenny says it left the matter with Mr R for further consideration.
Mr R says it wasnt made clear to him that he wouldnt be receiving the ongoing service and 
essentially was paying an advice fee for nothing in return. He says had this been made clear 
to him he would have taken steps sooner to transfer to a different financial adviser or at the 
very least he would have contacted his pension provider to request their advisory fees be 
stopped.
Mr R says he feels Bellpenny had an obligation to provide services in return for deducting a 
monthly fee from his pension and so he moved his removed them as his advisors from his 
pension plan and wrote to complain.
In its final response dated 3 October 2019, Ascot Lloyd didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Dissatisfied Mr R brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr R. He didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint either. He said 
because Mr R didnt agree to complete a fact find it wasnt possible for Bellpenny to make 
any recommendations.
Mr R didnt agree he remains of the view Bellpenny should not have charged him advisory 
fees when it was fully aware it wasnt providing him with any advice. He asks for an 
ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision I reached a different view to our investigator. 
In deciding this complaint, I explained I have considered the law, any relevant regulatory 
rules, and good industry practice at the time. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I 
have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Mr R says when he met with adviser from Bellpenny in May 2015, he wasnt sure how the 
proposition it was making compared to that which he had previously had with his former 
advisers and so he didnt agree to sign the terms of business and took time to consider his 
options.
He met with the adviser from Bellpenny again in October 2015, when she explained the full 
proposition. Mr R wasnt happy with the charging structure and so he didnt agree to sign any 
paperwork. Bellpennys adviser says it was left with Mr R to come back to them. Mr R says it 
wasnt made clear to him what would or wouldnt happen and he wasnt aware ongoing 
adviser fee would be charges regardless.
After looking closely at the contact notes, the next time the adviser contacted Mr R was in 
December 2018. Bellpenny sent Mr R a client declaration form which he signed and returned 
on 8 December 2018. 
On 11 January 2019, Ascot Lloyd wrote to Mr R to confirmed he was now part of the 
Connect Plus service.
On 14 February 2019 a meeting took place between Mr R and the Ascot Lloyd adviser. But 
Mr R remained unhappy about a number of issues with and ultimately disengaged with Ascot 
Lloyd and removed them as advisers from his pension plan.
So, the question here is what happened between October 2015 and December 2018. Both 
parties have different recollections and understandings after the meeting, but Im persuaded 
the responsibility here lay with Ascot Lloyd.
I dont agree it reasonable to charge Mr R advisory fees when providing no discernible 
service or offers of reviews for just over three years. I have also noted that when contact was 
made, Mr R did sign the client declaration agreement and did engage, although ultimately 
remained in disagreement about fees and charges and terminated his relationship with Ascot 
Lloyd.
Im persuaded Ascot Lloyd could and should have contacted Mr R much earlier. I think Mr R 
could reasonably have expected Ascot Lloyd to do more in the three years between October 
2015 and December 2018. I acknowledge it was always open to him to terminate the 
commission payments and appoint different advisers if he wished. This is what he did 
eventually, but Im persuaded he didnt necessarily understand the implication of not signing 
the agreement in October 2015 and had he done so, he would have acted much sooner. 
For these reasons I said I intended to direct Capital Professional Limited to:
Refund the commission payments it received between October 2015 and December 
2018
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% from the date the agreement was 
terminated to the date the payment is made
I invited both parties to make any further submissions they wished me to consider before 
making my final decision.
Mr R responded and accepted the findings in my provisional decision.Capital Professional also responded. It said it understood the reasons I had given for the 
refund of fees, but it disagreed that all the fees should be refunded. It felt some weight 
should be given to the fact it believes Mr R was aware the fees were being deducted and 
should bear some responsibility for not acting sooner. It felt a refund of 50% of the fees 
would be a fair outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I have looked at all the information provided by both parties afresh. I havent been 
persuaded to change my view from that of my provisional decision. Ill explain why.
Although, there was no set of regulations for what a regular review service should consist of, 
under the Retail Distribution Review (RDR), there is an expectation that a business should 
provide a service for the commission its receiving from the policy. I dont think there is any 
dispute here that there was no contact at all between October 2015 and December 2018.
Capital Professional argues Mr R must have known fees were being deducted from his 
policy as this would be shown on his annual statements, and as such it says it was 
incumbent upon him to make contact with them if he was dissatisfied. As he didnt, it thinks it 
would be fairer to refund say 50% of the fees it charged.
But, in my view, Mr R is not the professional here. I dont think its fair or reasonable to 
suggest Mr R should have picked up on this from his statements when he hadnt actually 
agreed to the terms of business on offer. I might be persuaded to look at this argument if 
Ascot Lloyd had made any contact or offered any reviews, but it didnt and so Im not 
persuaded to depart from my earlier provisional findings.
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and I direct Capital Professional 
Limited to:
Refund the commission payments it received between October 2015 and December 
2018
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% from the date the agreement was 
terminated to the date the payment is made
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman