DRN-3423856
The complaint
Ms P complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) failed to inform her that a payment she 
had made had been stopped.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known by both parties and is not in dispute. As 
such I have only briefly summarised it below. This is not intended as a discourtesy to either 
party but merely to reflect the informal nature of this service.
Ms P wanted to make a payment online but was unable to see her account when she logged 
on to Santanders online platform. She called Santander and a digital assistant advised her 
that her account had been set up as non-view online and updated this for her.
Ms P went on to make an online payment to a friend on 5 September 2021, she received a 
confirmation that it had gone through by text. But this wasnt correct, and the payment had 
actually been stopped by Santander's automated fraud and scam system  for checking. 
Santander didnt make Ms P aware it had done this, and she only became aware when her 
friend alerted her on 7 September 2021 that he hadnt received the funds. Ms P raised the 
issue with Santander for it to look into.
After its initial review Santander said the payment was not stopped in error but as part of an 
automatic security check to protect both Ms P and Santander. It apologised for any 
inconvenience the stop had caused and offered Ms P £30 as a gesture of goodwill. Ms P 
rejected this and flagged that there were errors in Santanders response. So, Santander 
reviewed things again. 
This time it said, the process it should follow, when a payment is stopped in this way, is to 
call a customer by close of business the following day to check if the payment is genuine. 
But it recognised it hadnt done this and offered a further £25 for this. Ms P rejected this offer 
also. 
Ms P has closed her accounts with Santander because of the service shed received. She 
brought her complaint to this service to look into as she doesnt want other customers to 
encounter the same issues that she has and would like Santander to change its processes.
Our investigator didnt think this was a complaint we could uphold; in summary she said the 
payment had been stopped in line with Santanders processes and the offer it had made for 
the service errors was fair in the circumstances. And although Ms P wanted Santander to 
change its operating processes this wasnt something we had the power to influence. Ms P 
disagreed, she said she felt strongly that Santander shouldnt be able to treat other 
customers in the same way it had treated her. The matter has now been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms P that I have reached the same outcome as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons, Ill explain.
There is no dispute from either party that there were service failures on Santanders part, 
when it didnt contact Ms P after stopping the payment from going through. So, Ive only 
considered if its offer of £55 was fair, and I think it was. I understand that Ms P was upset 
that the payment hadnt gone through even though she had a confirmation text. And I believe 
that she was inconvenienced by having to chase Santander about this, But I think its offer 
£55 to recognise its error was fair, reasonable and in line with what I would have awarded in 
the circumstances. I note that Ms P has refused all offers, as for her its not about 
compensation but a matter of principle. But if she should change her mind, she should let 
Santander know so it can arrange payment.
Moving on to Santanders operating procedures, this isnt something Im able to help with. 
Our role at this service is to look at individual complaints  we do not have the powers to tell 
a business how it should operate. This is the role of the regulator  The Financial Conduct 
Authority. As such I have to tell Ms P that while I understand her desire to stop other people 
from having the same experience she did  this isnt an outcome I can give to her. So, it 
follows I wont be asking Santander to do anything more here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman