DRN-1895950
The complaint
Mrs B complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) can't locate a premium 
bond in her name.  
What happened
Mrs B says her parents bought premium bonds for her and her brother in the early 1970s. In 
2017, her parents discovered the paperwork - so contacted NS&I to see if the bonds were 
still valid. It said Mrs B and her brother would need to get in touch directly. Around two years 
later, Mrs B followed up with NS&I about her bond. It asked her to sign a form, then told 
her the bond no longer existed. She complained, but NS&I said it had searched its records 
and couldn't trace the bond - meaning it had probably been cashed in many years ago. 
Unhappy with this response, Mrs B and her brother referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator explained he could only look at Mrs B's complaint, as her brother hadn't 
complained to NS&I directly about his bond. Regarding Mrs Bs bond, our investigator was 
satisfied NS&I had completed the necessary searches - and there was nothing to show her 
bond still existed or that NS&I had made a mistake. NS&I said a £2 bond in Mrs B's name 
had been paid out in 1982. Our investigator thought this could've been the premium bond.  
Mrs B disagreed. She said her parents thought the bond was worth more than £2. And she 
didn't think it had been cashed in, as the website still recognised the number and they still 
had the paperwork. She said the bond could've been lost through negligence - or stolen by a 
staff member. In response, NS&I said the 'prize checker' on its website can't distinguish 
between open and closed account - and entering Mrs B's bond number shows there are no 
outstanding prizes. Having reviewed these responses, our investigator didn't change his 
view. So the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Before explaining my decision, I want to reiterateas our investigator didthat I'm only 
considering Mrs B's concerns about her bond. If her brother has concerns about his bond, 
he can raise those with NS&I directly.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where information is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I've reached my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
In other words, I've considered what's more likely to have happened given the available 
information and wider circumstances of the complaint. Based on what I've seen, I've decided 
not to uphold this complaint. 
Having seen evidence of the searches NS&I completed, I'm satisfied it's done what it 
reasonably can to try to locate Mrs B's bond. The fact the bond can't be traced supports the 
idea that it ended a long time ago. I know Mrs B thinks NS&I may have lost the bond through 
negligence - or a staff member could've stolen it. Although that's possible, I haven't seen 
anything substantial to support these serious allegations. Ultimately, as the party bringing 
the complaint, there is some onus on Mrs B to support her position.Mrs B has pointed out that the website still recognises the bond number. But I'm satisfied 
with the explanation NS&I has provided for how its website operates. She also says it 
would've been impossible to cash in the bond without handing in the paperwork. I haven't 
seen enough to substantiate this. And even if that was the normal process, there could still 
have been an administration error. I can't say for sure how and when the bond ended. But 
I'm not persuaded it's more likely than not that NS&I error's resulted in the loss of the bond. 
I understand why Mrs B is frustrated by the lack of information about what happened to her 
bond. But NS&I isn't obliged to keep records indefinitely. Given how long ago the bond was 
sold, I don't consider unreasonable or surprising that it can't provide anything more. And I 
don't consider the possible inconsistencies/missing evidence she's highlighted enough to 
show NS&I did anything negligent or untoward. It seems more likely these are simply 
consequences of the length of time that's passed. 
Overall, I'm satisfied NS&I has done what it reasonably can to locate Mrs B's bond. And I 
haven't seen enough to persuade me it erroneously lost or closed the bond. I appreciate this 
will be disappointing for Mrs B, but I hope I've been able to explain clearly why I can't fairly 
direct NS&I to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman