DRN-1949016
The complaint
Mr B has complained that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) advised him that his boiler 
needed to be replaced when it was in fact capable of being repaired.
What happened
Mr B had a Homecare policy with BG for many years covering a rental property. At a routine 
gas safety check on 11 February 2019, BGs engineer advised Mr B that due to an unsafe 
level of carbon monoxide present in the air intake, the boiler was unsafe and needed to be 
isolated. It needed a new flue. The engineer told Mr B that this part was no longer available, 
and that hed need to replace the boiler.
Mr B arranged for a new boiler to be supplied and fitted by a third party engineer as BGs 
quote was too high. That engineer told Mr B that the part that BG had said was unavailable 
was in fact still in production and was available. This engineer told our investigator that he 
couldve supplied and fitted a new flue for £700.
Mr B complained to BG that hed been mis-advised. BGs response was that it wasnt to 
blame for Mr B having his boiler replaced. It said it had advised Mr B in 2016 and 2017 that 
work was required to his flue, but he hadnt had the work done.  The cost of replacing the 
flue wouldve been expensive and wouldnt have been covered by his policy. It said it had 
tried to save Mr B from spending money on a boiler that might only have lasted for a short 
period of time. It offered Mr B £50 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with BGs response to his complaint, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator considered that BG had a duty of care to give Mr B correct advice, and that 
its engineer didnt even check if the part was available before he advised Mr B that he 
needed to replace his boiler. His view was that because Mr B bought a new boiler earlier 
than he might otherwise have done, BG should pay Mr B half the cost of a new boiler less 
the £700 it wouldve cost Mr B to have the flue replaced. 
BG doesnt agree with our investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to uphold Mr Bs complaint and Ill give my reasons.
I think it was reasonable for Mr B to act upon information provided to him by BG. Mr B says 
that BGs engineer told him that his boiler was unsafe and that the part needed to make it 
safe, which was part of the flue, was no longer available and that Mr B would therefore need 
to buy a new boiler. BG doesnt dispute that this is what Mr B was told. But it appears that 
the necessary part was available, and Mr B says that BG didnt even check this with BGs 
parts department or the manufacturer before telling him it wasnt.
In reliance upon what BG had told him, Mr B committed to a new boiler at a cost of £2,650. 
When our investigator contacted the engineer who replaced Mr Bs boiler, he was told that 
he couldve replaced the flue for approximately £700.
If Mr B had known this, I consider it likely that hed have spent £700 on a repair rather than 
£2,650 on a new boiler. Whilst a new boiler wouldve been unavoidable at some stage, it 
might well have been a number of years before that stage was reached. So whilst a new 
boiler has a number of benefits, Mr B felt he had no alternative but to invest in a new boiler 
sooner than he might otherwise have done. To use his words, hed been pushed into a 
corner by BG to buy a new boiler when he didnt need to.
I consider that BG should compensate Mr B for misinformation that led to him having to 
spend £2,650 on a new boiler immediately because his existing boiler had been declared 
unsafe and had been isolated when its life couldve been extended.
Purchasing the new boiler saved Mr B approximately £700 on a repair to his flue which hed 
have had to pay for as such a repair isnt covered by his policy. I agree with our investigator 
that the fair and reasonable outcome is that BG pays compensation to Mr B of half the cost 
of his new boiler after deducting that £700, namely £975. Im awarding only half the cost of 
the difference to reflect the fact that Mr B wouldve had to buy a new boiler at some point in 
the not too distant future and that he will derive a number of benefits from having one 
installed earlier than he might otherwise have done. If BG has already paid Mr B the £50 
compensation it offered him, it need only pay a further £925.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. I require British Gas 
Insurance Limited to pay Mr B compensation of £975. This is to include the £50 
compensation previously offered to Mr B.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman