DRN-4232323
The complaint
Mr I complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) failed to refund 
transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
What Mr I says
Mr I had recently opened an account with first direct and several weeks after receiving his 
new card, he damaged it. Mr I said he didnt receive a personal identification number (PIN) 
with his original card. Mr I then attempted to obtain a new card and PIN using the online chat 
function and his mobile app. 
Both of these items couldnt be ordered together for security reasons. Mr I eventually spoke 
with an operator to arrange for his new card and PIN to be sent to him.
Mr I says after four or five days he called the bank because the new card and PIN hadnt 
arrived and says he was told to wait for its arrival. A short time later he left the country for 
about five days. Sometime after returning he attempted to make a large purchase using the 
Apple pay function on his phone. The payment was declined, and Mr I called first direct to 
discuss why there was a problem.
It was during this conversation that Mr I was informed he had much less than expected in his 
account because over the previous three weeks or so, many cash withdrawals had taken 
place at Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) amounting to about £12,000 in lost funds.
Mr I denied making these transactions and said hed never received either his new card or 
PIN from first direct. Arrangements were made to cancel the current card and issue a new 
card and PIN to Mr I.
After reviewing the situation, first direct declined to refund Mr I the money taken from his 
account. Mr I was unhappy with their response and made a complaint to first direct about the 
situation. First direct looked at what had happened but didnt change their mind about the 
refund. 
Mr I then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
review.
What first direct say
First direct looked into the situation but didnt think that Mr I had called them to say hed yet 
to receive his new card and PIN. They could find no record of any call and stated that if the 
card and PIN hadnt arrived within 4-5 days  they would normally cancel it and reissue the 
card and PIN.
They didnt think the delay between ordering the card and notifying them about the problem 
was reasonable and held him responsible for the losses. 
The investigation so far
An investigator was assigned to look into Mr Is complaint and gathered information from 
both parties. Mr I repeated what had happened and also said hed had previous problems 
with his mail some time ago. He also said that first direct had subsequently closed his 
account down. Mr I said he didnt look at his account unless he was sending money out of it 
or receiving it, because he knew roughly what was in it.
Mr I said he hadnt reported the issue to the police at the time because he was dealing with 
first direct. He also said his health conditions were causing him additional stress because of 
the loss of his funds and how it was being dealt with. He mentioned a recent accident that 
was causing him difficulty with his back.
First direct provided data about how the transactions were made, showing their use at 
ATMs, they also sent information about the mobile app use on the account and records of 
phone calls and searches theyd carried out to check if Mr I had called them shortly after the 
card was ordered. They couldnt find any record of the call from Mr I to say he hadnt yet had 
his card. 
First direct commented that they noted a change in how the account was operated from 
when it was opened to when the disputed transactions were made. They said that Mr I 
regularly logged onto his mobile app when he opened the account, but this stopped shortly 
before the disputed transactions started happening. Also, there were no initial balance 
checks made against the card, the pattern of transactions didnt fit any typical fraud scenario 
and there were no attempts to use the card after Mr I reported it to the bank. 
First direct thought it unlikely that the deliveries could have been intercepted as they were 
posted on different days as a security precaution. The items were sent to Mr Is home 
address where he lived with one other close family member. They didnt think they should be 
liable for the losses due to the long delay informing them about the delivery of the card and 
PIN.
After considering the evidence the investigator didnt uphold Mr Is complaint. In summary he 
said:
It was unlikely that someone could intercept these items on two different days.
It wasnt reasonable to wait for about a month before informing first direct about the 
account.
The pattern of transactions didnt follow a typical card theft scenario.
There was no report to the police at the time.
He thought it likely that Mr I or someone with his permission used the card to 
withdraw the money.
Mr I disagreed with the outcome and commented that:
He did notify first direct that his card and PIN hadnt arrived and would be able to 
show the call from his phone suppliers evidence.
He was abroad at the time of some of the disputed transactions and they took place in an area some way from where he lived.
He was only aware of the problem when a payment failed due to the available 
balance. Because he only used Apple pay, he had no reason to suspect there was a 
problem with his card.
He believed the outcome was biased.
He did report it to the police and action fraud and would be able to show this.
As no agreement could be reached, Mr I asked for a further review of his complaint which 
has now been passed to me for a decision.
I asked if Mr I could supply the evidence hed referred to, including the issues he referred to 
with previous mail deliveries. Unfortunately, nothing further has been received, although I 
understand that Mr I has suffered additional stress as a result of the ongoing complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear of the difficulties faced by Mr I, including the accident he was involved 
with and the stress hes experienced.
In complaints such as this one, its not our role to say exactly what happened, but to decide 
whether first direct can reasonably hold Mr I liable for these transactions or not. And where 
there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as 
it is here, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that first direct can hold Mr I liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
First direct can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr I authorised 
the transactions, but first direct cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively 
proves that the payments were authorised. 
Unless first direct can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Is account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr I. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine 
whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr I responsible for the disputed transactions or 
not.
Put simply, Mr I denies ever receiving a new card and PIN when he told first direct hed 
damaged his card at home. Security precautions prevent both card and PIN being sent 
together. What that means here is for an unknown third party to obtain the card and PIN, 
they would have to be able to intercept the post on two separate occasions. Mr I said he 
raised this with the Post Office but never received any response from them. What Mr I is 
describing is theft from the postal system and I would have thought this type of report would 
be followed up in some way due to the seriousness of it. Without further evidence of postal 
problems, its difficult to understand how both sets of letters from first direct were taken. Mr Is personal living arrangements mean that no one else in the household could have taken 
them. 
Mr I also said he never received his original PIN, although I havent seen any evidence that 
he notified first direct about it (hed had his original card for some weeks by this point) which 
I would have thought was essential, especially given that Mr I said he wanted a card to make 
a deposit into the account at some later point, so would need the PIN as well.
Mr I also stated that he told first direct within 4- 5 days of ordering the new card and PIN that 
it hadnt yet arrived. First direct have been unable to find any calls about this. Theyve also 
said in such a scenario they would usually cancel the card and PIN and re-issue it for 
security reasons. Mr I said he would supply evidence of the call, but unfortunately he hasnt 
been able to. So, based on first directs search of their records, a lack of other activity which 
could indicate a call to the bank (such as the cancellation of the card) and no evidence from 
Mr I that he did call the bank, I think on balance, that first direct werent informed about the 
problem with the delivery.
Ive also thought about the possibility that there was a call that somehow first direct didnt 
record, but if this was the case and Mr I was aware the card was still missing, I would have 
thought hed follow this up at some point with first direct. 
Ive also considered the way the account was operated up till the point of the request for a 
new card. It appears that Mr I used his mobile app regularly from when he opened the 
account until just before the problems started. He then didnt use it until he was notified 
about the disputed transactions leaving his account. Mr I said he knew roughly what was in it 
and he mainly used the app when he was sending or receiving funds. He didnt think the lack 
of use during this period was unusual, but here the change in use of the app that mirrors the 
disputed transactions shows the account wasnt being monitored during that period.  
The card and PIN were used to withdraw cash over several weeks, initially without 
completing a balance transfer. No other transactions were present such as purchases of 
expensive easily sellable items which are typically purchased when a criminal has both the 
card and the PIN. I understand Mr I didnt think this was unusual because of the risk the 
criminals ran of certain transactions being declined. That may be a risk, but generally if 
someone steals the card and PIN, they wouldnt know what funds were in the account, they 
also wouldnt expect it to go unnoticed for very long and would tend to maximise its use until 
it was blocked, or the funds ran out. That wasnt the case here.
Also, the card wasnt used after it was reported to the bank even though there were funds 
left in the account. This is often indicative that whoever had the card was aware that it had 
been blocked. Whilst I wouldnt base a decision solely on how a typical card theft operates, 
there are several factors here which point towards the card and PIN being used by someone 
with a lot of knowledge about the account.
I accept that Mr I himself couldnt have made some of the withdrawals because he was 
abroad, but if his card and PIN were used with his knowledge and permission, he would be 
held liable for those transactions. There are indications here that the user of the card had 
knowledge of the account and together with the way the card was used, I think it was more 
likely than not that Mr I was responsible. Also considering the lack of notice given to first 
direct about the missing card and PIN, I dont think it would be fair in these specific 
circumstances to ask first direct to refund the payments taken from the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman