DRN-3821487
The complaint
Mr W complains that Monzo Bank Ltd restricted and closed his account  and then took four 
weeks to send him the funds that remained.
What happened
Mr W had an account with Monzo. In January 2021, following a review of Mr Ws account, 
Monzo decided to close it. On 20 January, it asked Mr W to get in touch with details of an 
alternative account so it could send him the remaining funds. Mr W provided details of an 
account the same day. The remaining funds, £307.50, were paid to Mr Ws other account on 
16 February. 
Mr W thinks hes been treated unfairly. He wanted to know why Monzo had closed his 
account. And he was unhappy that hed paid a fee for the premium features of his account.
Monzo looked at this, and offered to refund £10.50 of the 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. Although it 
appeared Monzo was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it closed 
the account, our investigator thought there were signs that Mr W was vulnerable, and so 
thought Monzo could have returned the funds sooner. She recommended Monzo pay Mr W 
£100 to reflect the trouble and upset caused.
Monzo didnt agree. It thinks the time it took to return the funds was in line with its normal 
timescales. And while it is sorry to hear that the situation caused Mr W distress and 
embarrassment, this didnt appear to be Mr Ws main account. It offered to pay £50.
Mr W didnt accept Monzos offer.
As the investigator couldnt resolve matters informally, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Banks like Monzo are subject to a number of legal and regulatory requirements. These mean 
that Monzo may need to review an account at any time. Looking at everything, Im satisfied 
that Monzo was acting in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed and 
closed Mr Ws account.
Mr W wants to know why Monzo closed his account  hes said hed like to know what went 
wrong so he could avoid it happening again. I can certainly understand why Mr W feels this 
way. But where Monzo closes accounts, it doesnt need to provide reasons. And it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to tell Monzo to share those reasons with him.
Ive next considered the time it took Monzo to send the money back. I see Monzo explained 
its normal timescales was 2-4 weeks. In Mr Ws case, Monzo took just over 4 weeks. Given 
Monzos legal and regulatory obligations, I can see that some of this delay was unavoidable. 
That said, Monzo has also said some of the delay was caused by internal backlogs. I 
recognise that Monzo told Mr W that it might take 2-4 weeks to complete the process  
though I also note that during a call to Monzo one of the agents suggested it might been 
sooner than that. I also think there were signs that Mr W might be vulnerable  the payments 
into the account included state benefits, and when Mr W contacted Monzo he mentioned he 
had no other funds or money to feed his children.
So thinking about everything, I think some of the delay was avoidable and that, in view of 
Mr Ws vulnerability, Monzo could have done more here. 
Ive thought about what Monzo needs to do to put things right. Where I award compensation 
for distress or inconvenience, this isnt to punish the business but to reflect the impact the 
businesss actions had. Looking at everything, I think Monzo would still have needed to 
restrict the account for at least some of the time it did. I note Mr W had other accounts 
elsewhere; that said, the Monzo account was where he received his state benefits. In all the 
circumstances, I think the £100 recommended by the investigator is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Monzo Bank Limited should pay Mr W 
£100 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman