DRN-4158995
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that the legal and receiver costs HSBC UK Bank Plc passed on to 
them when they redeemed their mortgage were excessive. They said HSBC would have 
challenged these figures, if it was paying the bills itself.
What happened
In 2011 Mr and Mrs W bought a property to extend and develop, with funding from HSBC. 
This lending was provided on an interest only basis, and intended to be relatively short term. 
Mr and Mrs W started work using their own money, as HSBC wasnt willing to lend further at 
that time, but then HSBC did authorise further borrowing in 2015. Mr and Mrs W also 
borrowed elsewhere, placing a second charge on the property. 
HSBC said the repayment date for the lending passed without repayment, and that from 
some time in 2020, Mr and Mrs W ceased to pay the interest on the outstanding borrowing. 
Mr and Mrs W have since refinanced with a different lender, but in the meantime, HSBC said 
that it had incurred legal fees, and appointed a receiver in respect of the property. 
Mr and Mrs W have objected to the level of fees charged on the mortgage, for both the 
receivers and the legal firm. Mr W said HSBC has charged around £58,000, and the 
receivers fees add a further £29,000. 
Mr and Mrs W said the amount of time spent by the legal firm on individual tasks couldnt be 
supported. They said although receivers were engaged, they were effectively stood down 
almost immediately, but this wasnt reflected in the fees. And they queried why the receivers 
had paid, proportionally, about six times what they were paying for insurance for the 
property. 
Mr and Mrs W said that if HSBC had been paying for this work itself, rather than just passing 
the cost on to them, it would have challenged the fees charged. Mr and Mrs W said it wasnt 
fair for HSBC not to challenge excessive fees, simply because it was able to require them to 
pay this as a condition of discharging its lending. They wanted us to get the bills reduced. 
HSBC said it had made a series of very large loans to Mr and Mrs W to finance their 
property purchase and then its redevelopment. It said the project was significantly over time, 
and HSBC considered it had not been effectively managed. HSBC said it had been seeking 
to get Mr and Mrs W to either refinance the debt or complete a sale for some time, which 
they hadnt done. And HSBC said its concerns had been made clear to Mr and Mrs W before 
it sought legal help. 
HSBC said that this sort of legal and insolvency work is by its nature complicated and time 
consuming. Where security is being enforced and receivers appointed, the bank has to 
ensure everything is in order and the necessary steps are completed accurately and 
properly. So HSBC said there was no scope for taking a light touch.
HSBC also said that the receivers werent stood down almost immediately, they remained in 
place until the charge was redeemed. And it said that the receivers had explained why its 
insurance cost significantly more than Mr and Mrs Ws insurance. 
HSBC said that the overall level of fees wasnt out of line with what it would expect in a 
matter like this. It noted that it got this legal advice at the banks discounted rate, which Mr 
and Mrs W benefitted from. It had queried the fees with the legal firm and the receivers after 
they complained, but hadnt been able to secure any further discount on those fees. And 
HSBC said it wouldnt pay these fees itself.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He noted that the charges were 
very far in excess of the £5,000 Mr W said hed expected. But our investigator said the 
invoices hed seen from the legal firm did seem to be in keeping with the fees that were 
passed on to Mr and Mrs W. Our investigator said HSBC isnt obliged to challenge the 
invoices it received. And our investigator said that, other than the costs being high, he hadnt 
seen any reason for HSBC to assume its solicitors were overcharging or being deceptive 
with their billable hours.
Our investigator said that our service cannot look at what the solicitors themselves had 
done, we could only look at what HSBC had done. So he had to consider whether HSBC 
had acted fairly, having instructed solicitors, by taking the invoices provided by said solicitors 
as accurate representation of the work completed. And he said he wasnt able to say that 
HSBC had done anything wrong in this case. So he didnt think it should be upheld.
Mr W replied, to disagree. He said our investigator had focussed on the legal fees, but he 
and Mrs W had also complained about the receivers fees too, and the amount the receiver 
had paid for insurance. Mr and Mrs W said our service seemed to be saying that if HSBC 
says it considered all the fees and costs reasonable, then there was no justification for our 
service to delve further into the reasonableness or otherwise of these expenses. They said 
that couldnt be right, because if it was, they would have no protection at all. They said they 
had to rely on HSBC to object to excessive charges, as they couldnt contest these directly. 
And Mr W repeated that HSBC wouldnt have accepted this level of fees if it had to pay them 
itself. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
I should start by saying that, as our investigator noted, the legal firm and receivers working in 
this case do not fall directly within our services jurisdiction. So, as he explained, all our 
service can comment on is what HSBC has done in this case.
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ws concern at the legal and receivers fees they have been 
required to pay, in order to redeem the lending from HSBC and complete the refinancing of 
their property elsewhere. These are large sums of money. However, I note that the 
outstanding lending to Mr and Mrs W was also for a very sizeable amount. I think its in 
keeping with the scale of the banks exposure in this matter, that HSBC chose to engage a 
relatively high profile law firm, and to have a small team working on this issue. I appreciate that Mr W considers the key issues here were straightforward, so the work could 
largely have been done either by HSBC itself, or by one person in a legal firm. But I do think 
its reasonable for HSBC to have characterised this as a complex and fast-moving set of 
circumstances, which, along with the scale of the banks exposure, must have increased the 
risk to HSBC. And I dont think that HSBC was obliged to do this work itself, or that HSBC 
has been unfair or unreasonable in engaging a relatively high profile firm. 
I also note that the initial appointment of receivers appears to have been done at Mr and Mrs 
Ws request. And that the insurance obtained over the property was apparently required 
because the property was under insured, which is a breach of the terms of the lending to Mr 
and Mrs W. 
But I am not considering whether the lawyers here have inflated their billing, or indeed, 
whether the receivers were correct to charge the stated amount for insurance. What I have 
to consider is just whether it was reasonable for HSBC to accept the invoices it received.
HSBC has said that the bills it received were in the region of what it would expect in a matter 
like this. It has shared with Mr W full details of the invoices, and according to its complaint 
responses to Mr W, it has discussed these fees again with both the legal firm and the 
receivers, in the light of his comments. It hasnt been able to secure further reductions. 
I think HSBC has taken reasonable steps in respect of the fees that Mr and Mrs W were 
charged. And I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask HSBC to go further, and 
formally contest these fees. So, although I know that Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed, I 
dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 September 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman