DRN-2840483
The complaint
Ms J, who is represented by Mr H, complains that PSA Finance UK Limited imposed 
excessive charges for damages to a car she returned at the end of a finance agreement.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
The car was some six year old when it was acquired by Ms J and so it will have already 
suffered some wear and tear. As our investigator has explained the industry generally rely 
on British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA)s fair wear and tear guide to 
determine what can be considered fair wear and tear. We also make use of this guide. 
The guide says that age and mileage are factors which need to be taken into account when 
considering what would be deemed fair wear and tear. This applies to all cars but older cars, 
or cars with higher mileage, might require a slightly different application of the guide. So, in 
cases where the car was older and/or with higher mileage we may apply a broader approach 
than what is explicitly set out in the BVRLA guidance. 
Regrettably we dont have any details of the state of the car when Ms J acquired it, but it was 
acquired from a major dealer and the price she paid would indicate it was in a good state of 
repair.  
Ms J signed a contract which under which she accepted liability for any damage which went 
beyond fair wear and tear and so PSA is entitled to make a charge in line with the contract. 
The issue is what damage fell outside fair wear and tear. 
In this case the third party inspector identified damage costing £1,806. I believe that was 
based on a strict application of the guide. It also included £800 for a missing service and 
book. The service which had been missed occurred prior to Ms J acquiring the car. I agree 
that this charge should be waived.
PSAs response has been to reduce the charge to £575 in recognition of the age of the car. 
It said it calculated this sum by reference to the loss it made at auction as against what it 
would have expected to have made of the car had been returned in average condition. As 
such, I consider it has taken into account the cars age.
I have reviewed the inspection report and the photographs and I can see that there was a 
significant amount of damage which I believe goes beyond fair wear and tear for a car which 
was some nine years old which had only covered some 67,000 miles.
Two of the alloys are corroded and damaged along with a number of other dents in various 
panels. And even if one discounts the charge for the rear bumper which seems to have been 
repaired previously and possibly before Ms J acquired the car the sums due exceed the 
reduced sum charged by PSA. 
I can only conclude that having taken into account the cars age and mileage there was 
damage which went beyond fair wear and tear and the charge of £575 is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman