DRN-2745134
The complaint
 Mrs L complains about the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have 
handled a home emergency claim she made. In particular, she feels that the engineer that 
attended, used excessive force and caused further damage which has not been repaired.  
What happened
 Mrs L was experiencing a lack of hot water at her home and so she made a claim on her 
home emergency policy with RSA in April 2020. 
RSA instructed an engineer to attend the property. Following this, Mrs L complained to RSA. 
She said the engineer had used excessive force and caused damage to the water tank and 
pipe. She said this had caused water to leak into the downstairs of the property, through a 
ceiling light. 
RSA agreed to cover the cost of a new water tank and also offered a settlement for the 
damage to the downstairs of the property, which Mrs L is happy with. However, Mrs L 
maintains that the engineer caused damage to an adjoining pipe and that this needs to be 
repaired and flooring lifted to do this. 
RSA have said that they dont believe the engineer was responsible for any damage to the 
pipe and so wont pay for it to be repaired. Mrs L says that she has had the leak fixed but 
remains without heating, and had no hot water for two months. She has provided her own 
engineers report which she says supports her claim that the engineer caused damage to the 
pipe. She remained unhappy with RSAs response, so brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into matters and felt that RSA were responsible for the damage to 
the pipe and subsequent leak. She said that RSA should pay for it to be repaired (including 
removing and replacing any flooring needed to access it) as well as paying Mrs L a further 
£250 as compensation. She said that this should be done outside of the policy terms and 
with no claim logged, as its the fault of the attending engineer.  
RSA disagree. They maintain that the engineer wasnt responsible for the damaged 
pipework and say that it could have been caused by anyone. They remain happy to deal with 
the issue as a new claim, with the appropriate excess payable. 
This matter has now been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
As Mrs L has confirmed that she is happy with the settlement for the water tank and damage 
to the downstairs of her property, I havent considered that further and have focused on the 
damaged pipe and leak. Having done so, I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. Ill explain why.
When the evidence is inconclusive, as it is here, Ive reached my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to have happened, in light of the 
evidence that is available.
RSA acknowledge damage to the tank by one of their engineers, whilst trying to replace the 
fuse and restore power to the immersion heater. They acknowledge that there were no leaks 
prior to this damage. 
However, RSA say that upon inspections to investigate damage to the tank, no leaks or wet 
flooring was found. They believe the damage to the pipe could have been caused by anyone 
or due to the corrosion of the pipe rather than the actions of their engineer. They also said 
that the pipe is connected to the flooring joists, making it very hard to move even with the 
excessive force used on the tank. 
However, Mrs L instructed an independent engineer to replace the hot water tank and the 
engineer inspected the property after this was done, as Mrs L had said there was water 
leaking. This engineer has said that there was no leak with any of the connections to the 
new tank. However, the primary flow and return pipe to the boiler from the cylinder, was 
leaking. 
This engineer acknowledged that the pipe was corroded but was of the opinion that it had 
leaked due to the actions of the original RSA instructed engineer. They said that it was their 
view that it had occurred during the original visit and that movement or vibration to the pipe 
can cause it to leak earlier than it would have done naturally due to the corrosion. 
I appreciate what RSA has said, that we cant be sure what caused the pipe to leak and that 
it had visible corrosion. But  as Ive said, I base my decision on what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened. There was excessive force used on the tank and the 
independent engineer thinks this was caused by the initial attempted tank repair. The leak is 
clear and it occurred after this attempted repair. Although I appreciate there was no sign of 
the leak in the RSA inspection some days after the initial damage. There was definitely a 
leak shortly afterwards, and I think this is more likely as a result of the actions of the RSA 
instructed engineer. 
It is agreed that the flooring will need to be lifted and replaced to gain access to repair the 
pipe. As well as this, I think it is clear that this has caused some considerable trouble and 
upset for Mrs L. Not least for being without heating and hot water for an extended period. 
Also having to live with the further repairs needed following the leak. I agree with the 
investigator that this should be recognised through a compensatory payment. And as it is the 
fault of the engineer, this is aside of the policy terms and should not be part of a recorded 
claim.   
In summary, Im satisfied that its more likely that the damage to the pipe was caused by the 
engineer that visited the property through instruction by RSA. As such, they are responsible 
for repairing it and compensating Mrs L for the time this has taken.  
Putting things right
 As Ive said, I think RSA should pay the cost for repairing the damaged pipe. This should 
include the cost of lifting and replacing flooring to gain access to it. This damage (as well as the damage caused to the downstairs of Mrs Ls property) should 
be paid outside of the policy terms. This means a claim should not be logged for this and no 
excess payable. This damage should be considered separately to the original claim logged 
under Mrs Ls home emergency cover.
RSA should also pay Mrs L £250 for the trouble and upset this has caused. 
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. 
It should take the action set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman