DRN-2572796
The complaint
Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1995. The policy was added to 
Mrs Bs Barclaycard account when she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator initially upheld Mrs Bs mis-selling complaint. She thought that Mrs B might 
not have worked enough hours to qualify for PPI and so the policy didnt offer Mrs B the 
cover she thought she was paying for. Our adjudicator didnt think that Mrs B would have 
taken out the PPI if Barclays had given her clear enough information about this.
When Barclays disagreed our adjudicator asked Mrs B for more information, specifically 
about her work hours. Our adjudicator then reviewed all the information Mrs B had told us 
and came to the view that this wasnt a complaint we should uphold. 
Mrs B disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
Barclays told us that it doesnt any longer have a policy document from the date Mrs B took 
out PPI. But it has provided a policy document which was in use a few months later  so 
I think its likely that in all main respects the policy that Mrs B took out wouldve had similar 
terms and conditions.
Ive seen nothing to make me think that Mrs B wasnt eligible for the policy. 
In order to qualify for the PPI, amongst other things it looks like Mrs B had to work at least 
16 hours per week at the time the policy was sold. 
On the form she filled in Mrs B said that she worked part time. And she ticked a box 
indicating that her annual income was between £3,500 - £5,000.
I think its fair to say that Mrs B has said different things at different times about the actual 
hours she worked. I dont think its surprising that its been hard for her to recall exact details 
about a job she was in over 25 years ago. 
Whilst I accept she was only working part time hours (as she indicated on the application) 
I think its likely Mrs B was working at least 16 hours per week in order to earn this much in 
1995. I dont think her annual income wouldve been as much as she declared on the 
application  form if she wasnt working at least 16 hours per week in the job she had at the 
time. 
There was an option on the form for Mrs B to say if she was earning less than £3500  which 
I think its reasonable to expect for someone working fewer than 16 hours per week at the 
time. 
So I dont think Mrs Bs part time hours mean that this is a complaint I should uphold. 
Mrs B told us that she wasnt informed of the PPI terms, conditions, limitations or exclusions 
and she wasnt provided with any detailed information. 
So Ive also thought carefully about whether there is any other reason to uphold her 
complaint. 
I think that Barclays made Mrs B aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take 
it. 
The application form Mrs B completed had Yes and No PPI options. So Mrs B wouldve 
known it was up to her to say if she wanted PPI. 
And I can see the Yes option is marked on the form Mrs B signed. So, I think its likely she 
decided at the time that PPI would be useful and she chose to add it to her Barclaycard 
account.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
her. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave her enough clear information so she could 
decide for herself if she wanted to have PPI. And if this didnt happen, Ive thought about 
what difference, if any, this makes overall.
Mrs B had good sick pay entitlement through work. She told us that she wouldve had at 
least 6 months sick pay from her employer. But the policy couldve paid more than her 
minimum card repayments for up to 12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness 
 on top of any work benefits. As Mrs B mightve also had some additional costs if she was 
too unwell to go back to work or disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a 
difficult time. 
And the policy wouldve also protected Mrs Bs card repayments if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work.
Although there were likely some things the policy didnt cover, it doesnt look as if those 
applied in Mrs Bs case when she took out PPI. So, I dont think having more information 
about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take it out. 
The policy couldve cleared the balance outstanding on her Barclaycard at the start of the 
claim if Mrs B claimed successfully for the full 12 months. 
I dont know if Mrs B wouldve always had savings to rely on  especially if these werent in 
her name. Having to rely on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
So I still think that the policy offered her useful cover. I dont think Barclays properly explained what the policy would cost or what it might pay out if 
Mrs B made a claim. But, even if she hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would actually 
cost on a month to month basis, Mrs B chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to 
 so she seems to have wanted it. The policy appears to have been affordable for her when 
she took it out  and she couldve cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed or 
she didnt want to keep paying for it.
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs B still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as PPI 
gave her useful protection in her particular situation. And, on balance, I dont find it was mis-
sold.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because Barclays didnt tell 
Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman