DRN-4366040
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car acquired with finance from Billing Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2023 Mr K was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Billing Finance. At the point of supply the car was around 9 years old and had covered 
68,600 miles.
Mr K contacted Billing Finance in March 2023 and reported faults. He said the car was 
meant to achieve 153 miles on a full charge but it wasnt achieving this. He said that a 
diagnostic check had shown that there were 13 faults with the car. Mr K asked to reject the 
car.
Billing Finance contacted the broker, who spoke to the supplying dealer. The supplying 
dealer provided a copy of the advert for the car. the advert didnt mention the range of the 
car on a full charge.
Billing Finance advised Mr K that the supplying dealer would inspect the car and that if a 
fault was found, rejection could be considered.
Mr K said he wasnt happy for the supplying dealer to carry out the inspection. Billing 
Finance arranged an independent inspection of the car. This took place in May 2023.
The inspection report concluded that the cars performance was commensurate for its age 
and mileage. No faults were identified with the electric battery. The inspector found some 
fault codes but said these were not of concern because the car was driving as expected with 
no warning lights illuminated and no malfunctions.
Based on the findings of the report, Billing Finance didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He said that hed been 
advised that some of the fault codes related to the battery charging circuitry which meant 
that the car couldnt reach a fully charged state in a reasonable period of time. He said hed 
had to wait at a charging point for 2 hours to charge the battery, when this was something 
that he thought should take 20 minutes.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that having reviewed all of the 
information available, she wasnt persuaded that there was something wrong with the car. 
The investigator said that although the independent inspection had found three fault codes, 
the car drove as expected, and the engineer hadnt been able to identify any fault with the 
electric battery. The investigator said that the range of the car was in line with the EV 
Database and commensurate with the age and mileage of the car. She said she wasnt 
persuaded that the car was of unsatisfactory quality, and therefore she didnt think it was fair 
to ask Billing Finance to allow Mr K to reject the car.
Mr K didnt agree. He said that the charging capacity of the car hadnt been looked at during 
the independent inspection. He also said that the findings of the BMW main dealer who 
identified a fault with the battery had been ignored. Mr K said that the EV database stated 
that the car should attain a full charge in 20 minutes, but it was taking him 2 hours.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
car includes its general state and condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr K was around 9 years old and had covered around 68,600 miles. So 
its reasonable to expect that the car would already have a degree of wear and tear and that 
it would require repairs sooner than, say, a brand new car.
Ive reviewed the available evidence about the issues which Mr K has experienced with the 
car, including the information from Mr Ks local BMW garage and the independent inspection 
report.
Mr K has said that there is a fault with the car which prevents it from charging as quickly as it 
should. He also says that the car doesnt achieve the mileage that it should on a full charge.
The information from the BMW garage indicates that an investigation was carried out to see 
why the car wasnt charging as fast as Mr K expected. The letter from the garage is very 
short and says that the main battery needs to be replaced. 
The information from the other garage (TopDon) shows that a diagnostic report found 13 
fault codes. All the faults were intermittent. 
The independent inspection report found three fault codes but found no fault with the electric 
battery. The car was charged to 67 miles when the independent inspection started and after 
driving the car for 28 miles, the range had dropped to 40 miles. The inspector said that the 
car drove as expected.
Based on what Ive seen, Im not persuaded that there is fault with the car. Although the 
letter from the BMW garage states that the main battery needs to be replaced, it doesnt 
state that the car has a fault and doesnt explain why the battery needs to be replaced. 
Although the diagnostic report showed 13 fault codes, no specific fault was identified. 
Similarly, in the independent inspection report, no faults were found. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
Ive taken into consideration the point Mr K has made about the charging capacity of the 
battery and the lack of investigation into this at the independent inspection. Mr K has said 
that the battery takes longer than expected to charge. Ive reviewed the information Mr K has 
provided in this regard and I can see that home charging of the car from 0-70 miles is stated 
to take 3 hours. A fast charge is stated to take 20 minutes. I havent seen any evidence of 
the type of charger Mr K is using, but it does appear that a charging time of 2 hours is 
correct if the car doesnt have a fast charge port. I appreciate that the diagnostic report and the independent inspection report found some 
fault codes. It isnt unusual for second hand cars to have stored fault codes. This doesnt 
mean that the car has a fault. The independent inspection report found no fault with the 
battery, and when the car was driven, the range decreased in a way which was 
commensurate with the mileage covered. The engineer stated that the cars performance 
was as expected.
Mr K has said that the car doesnt chieve the range he expected. Ive looked at the advert for 
the car but there were no representations made about the range of the vehicle on a full 
charge. The EV database states that around 70 miles is achievable in this vehicle on a fully 
charged battery, but that the range will vary according to factors such as the temperature, 
the terrain, use of heating/air conditioning systems and driving style.
Taking all of the available information into account, Im unable to conclude that the car has a 
fault, or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied. Because of this, Im unable 
to say that there is any obligation on the business to allow Mr K to reject the car.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman