DRN-3225190
The complaint
Mr M is complaining Ageas Insurance Limited has recorded what he thinks to be a fraudulent 
claim on his commercial vehicle insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr M received an invitation to renew his insurance policy, but he was unhappy 
his annual premium had increased from around £2,500 to around £8,500. He contacted his 
broker who informed him that there were two claims on his record  one in January 2021 
and one in March 2021. Mr M accepted hed had an accident in January 2021, but he 
disputed there were any other accidents and he said this was a fraudulent claim.
Ageas  the insurer  reviewed Mr Ms complaint. It said a third party had made a claim 
saying Mr M had been involved in an accident on 16 March 2021. It said it had defended the 
claim, but it said the claim had to remain on his file until the third party withdrew it. Mr M 
didnt think this was fair and he said hed lost over £6,000 as a result of this because he 
couldnt afford to insure his business.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the third party had made a claim and 
he said Ageas had a duty to investigate it and it needed to record the claim on the file until 
the third party withdrew it. He said Ageas had defended the claim and he didnt think it had 
acted unfairly.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigator. He maintained this was a fraudulent claim and he 
didnt think it was fair for Ageas to take six months to accept it was fraudulent. He reiterated 
he couldnt get any insurance as a result of this matter. As Mr M didnt agree, the complaints 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain that this service isnt able to say whether the third party made a 
fraudulent claim or not, as that is the responsibility of the courts. Our role is to look at 
whether Ageas has carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence it has and come 
to a reasonable decision.
I do not dispute Mr M has suffered as a result of whats happened and I naturally sympathise 
with the situation hes found himself in. But I need to decide whether this is down to anything 
Ageas did wrong. I dont think it is.
Ultimately, a third party appointed a claims management company (CMC) to pursue a claim 
for damages against Mr M  through Ageas. The CMC provided evidence of the incident and 
that Mr Ms vehicle was involved. So Ageas had to record it as a claim on Mr Ms record. 
Mr M explained that hed only had one accident  on 16 January 2021  and Ageas had 
settled that claim. 
Ageas noted in reviewing the claim that the CMC had said the accident occurred on 
16 March 2021 and had a different car to the one involved in the claim in January 2021. So it 
said it had to treat it as a separate incident based on the information it had at the time. I can 
see it responded to the CMC within a week of receiving notification of the claim disputing 
Mr M was involved in the incident and continued to do so. Ultimately, the third party didnt 
respond again, so Ageas was able to remove this claim from Mr Ms record. But it was fair 
for it to keep the claim on his record until this time.
As I said, I do not dispute that this has had a significant impact on Mr M. But, ultimately, a 
third party made a claim on his policy and it was fair for Ageas to initially record the claim on 
his record until it was able to successfully defend the claim. And it needed to allow a period 
of time for the third party to respond with further information. I note Mr M is unhappy it took 
six months for Ageas to resolve this, but this is down to the fact the CMC wasnt responding 
to its correspondence. And I dont think this is an unreasonable period of time for it to wait to 
see if the CMC had anything further to provide. 
I appreciate Mr M says this was a fraudulent claim, but Im satisfied Ageas did pro-actively 
defend this claim. And I think Mr Ms losses are ultimately down to the fact the CMC made 
the claim on Mr Ms insurance policy  not because of anything Ageas did wrong. And I cant 
hold Ageas responsible for that.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman