DRN-4180585
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc incorrectly changed her address meaning she 
didnt receive her loan statements which impacted her financially and her personal 
information was received by a third party.   
What happened
Mrs H told us: 
She took out a business loan with Barclays in 2008 to restructure personal debts 
which had been transferred into her name due to her husbands credit issues. She 
was charged around £3,000 by the bank for the loan as it was unaffordable to her, 
and her father had to act as a guarantor.
It was unfair that Barclays had forced her to take out a loan for her husbands debts, 
which was never affordable, and then charged a fee for a guarantee that was never 
going to be used.
She moved house in June 2012 and the bank didnt update her address. This meant 
that she didnt receive loan statements telling her that her repayments had reduced 
when the base rate did. In 2021, she was made aware that consequently, shed 
overpaid on her loan by enough to cover three years of loan repayments.
In 2017, she wrote to Barclays to see what was outstanding but didnt receive a 
response, so she stopped paying the loan.
In August 2021, Barclays started contacting her and made her aware that there was 
around £8,000 outstanding (the loan was for £20,000 originally) and had been 
defaulted in 2020, which had impacted her credit file and then been passed to a debt 
collection agency - without the bank making contact with her.
She requested a SAR which showed that Barclays hadnt updated the address on 
her loan account until January 2022, so her confidential mail had gone to the wrong 
address for around 10 years.
Barclays told us:
Mrs Hs loan had been taken out in 2008 and shed had the benefit of the funds since 
this date. Based on the information available, they didnt believe it had been mis-sold 
and the complaint hadnt been brought in time for the bank or this service to consider. 
Mrs H had also complained about the £3,000 fee being charged for the loan. 
However, it hadnt charged this as an arrangement fee which could be evidenced in 
the loan agreement. This may have related to solicitors fees, but it was unable to 
confirm this due to the time that had passed. 
It acknowledged Mrs H had stopped making repayments in 2017. However, due to 
the overpayments that shed made on the loan, she hadnt needed to start again until 
April 2020. It accepted it should have contacted her at this point but didnt do so. 
It had apologised for this oversight and paid Mrs H £175 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused and refunded her the interest which had been charged 
between November 2017 and October 2021. 
It had identified there was a discrepancy with Mrs Hs address which hadnt been 
spotted initially and meant that correspondence had been sent to Mrs Hs old 
address. It had apologised for this oversight and paid Mrs H £400 compensation. 
Mrs H had raised other complaints; however, these would be addressed under 
separate complaint reference numbers and had not been considered under this 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Barclays had done enough to put things right. He said that it wasnt 
clear why the business loan was taken out in Mrs Hs name in 2008 or when her address 
was changed on Barclays system due to the time that had passed. And because this was 
more than six years ago, we couldnt look into this as there wasnt evidence of exceptional 
circumstances or that Mrs H wasnt aware at the time. 
The investigator also said that Mrs H stopped making payments to the loan in 2017 as she 
thought the loan was repaid  but there was nothing to say that was the case. He noted that 
Mrs H had overpaid on her loan, but this hadnt negatively impacted her as it had still been 
paid off the outstanding balance. He also thought that Mrs H could have requested lower 
payments if needed. However, Barclays had made a mistake with Mrs Hs address which 
meant that she wasnt contacted. So, the bank had apologised, refunded the interest shed 
incurred on the loan from 2017 and paid £575 compensation for these errors. 
Mrs H didnt agree. She said the investigator hadnt sufficiently commented on the address 
change and she also didnt think the compensation was enough for the inconvenience 
caused or embarrassment of her mail being sent to another address. So, she asked for an 
ombudsman to look into her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to say that Im sorry to hear of the circumstances that Mrs H says led to her 
having to take out her loan in the first place. Both parties have provided me with a lot of 
information, and I want to reassure them that Ive reviewed everything, but Ive only 
commented on what I feel are the key things for the complaint. 
This means I need to decide exactly what Mrs Hs complaint is, and what I can consider. And 
I think there are three separate complaints here:
The alleged mis-sale of the original loan and guarantee in 2008.
The incorrect change of address.
The impact on Mrs Hs loan due to not receiving her statements. 
The mis-sale of the loan in 2008 and associated guarantor fee
Mrs H says that Barclays mis-sold her the business loan with the guarantor requirement in 
2008. She says that the bank only told her recently that it didnt intend to call upon the 
guarantee and always intended to seek payment from her, so it should never have charged 
a £3,000 fee for the loan. She also says she only recently became aware of the fee.  
I dont think this is a complaint that we can consider. Our rules for considering complaints 
are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) section of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
handbook of rules and guidance. These rules say that we cant consider complaints more than six years after the events complained about unless the business consented or because 
the complaint wasnt brought in time due to exceptional circumstances. 
This means we cant consider Mrs Hs complaint about the loan that was taken out in 2007, 
as this happened more than six years ago. The only way we could consider these complaint 
points would be if Barclays had consented to us considering this or if the delay in referring 
the matter to our service was due to exceptional circumstances. Barclays hasnt consented 
to us reviewing this, and Mrs H hasnt told us about any exceptional circumstances for why 
she didnt ask this service to look at this point sooner  meaning shes brought this point too 
late for us to consider. 
I acknowledge that Mrs H says she only recently became aware that Barclays didnt intend 
to call on the guarantee and the fee that shed paid for the loan as she hadnt received her 
statements. However, Ive seen a copy of the agreement that Mrs H signed in 2007
which detailed the amount, fees, interest, and charges payable. Im also satisfied that Mrs H 
would have known what she borrowed, and if shed added any fees to the loan, I think she 
would have been aware of them at the time. Therefore, I dont think Mrs H has brought this 
complaint point in time.   
The incorrect change of address  
Mrs H is unhappy that her address wasnt updated correctly by Barclays which meant that 
her personal information was sent to a previous address. She says that this has caused her 
embarrassment and distress. Ive looked at the evidence available and I understand Mrs Hs 
concerns and frustration at being given conflicting information about both the date these 
changes took effect and who made them. However, Im not persuaded this makes a 
difference as Barclays has already accepted that it made the error. And whilst I do 
understand Mrs Hs position due to the issues shes experienced, its not for me to punish 
Barclays for making a mistake. 
I acknowledge Mrs Hs concerns about this; however, it appears from the evidence Ive seen 
any correspondence incorrectly received at her previous address was returned to the bank 
unopened either by post or by hand to the branch. So, Im not persuaded this had a 
significant impact to Mrs H. Barclays has also told us that its now corrected Mrs Hs address 
on its systems and I can see that the final response letter of 5 September 2022 shows 
Mrs Hs new address, so I think its likely that this has now been amended. So, taking into 
account all the circumstances, I think Barclays apology and £400 compensation is enough 
to put things right for this part of Mrs Hs complaint. However, Mrs H may also wish to 
contact the Information Commissioners Office about her data protection complaint.
Financial impact due to not receiving statements
Mrs H says that because Barclays didnt update her address correctly, she didnt receive her 
annual loan statements. More importantly she didnt get any notifications of when the rates 
dropped, and her repayments should have been lower. I recognise that Mrs H says this 
caused her a financial burden and that shed been disadvantaged. However, Im not 
persuaded thats the case as Mrs H would always have had to make repayments to the loan 
and some element of interest would always have been due in line with the agreement that 
she signed. I also havent seen any evidence that Mrs H contacted the bank from 2012 
onwards to say that she needed help in reviewing her repayments. And whilst I have no 
reason to doubt that this was an extremely distressing time for Mrs H, I think its likely that if 
she was struggling significantly that she would have contacted the bank to discuss her 
repayments at the time, as she told us she eventually did in 2017 when she also stopped 
making her loan repayments.
  Mrs H also told us that she didnt change address until 2012, which means that she would 
have received at least annual loan statements between 2009 and 2011. So I think she ought 
reasonably to have realised that she hadnt received any correspondence about the loan 
after shed moved. However, even if I accept that Mrs H hadnt received any correspondence 
about the loan, I dont think shes been financially disadvantaged. I say that because the 
overpayments that Mrs H made, were applied to her loan and therefore would have reduced 
the amount of interest that she paid. Furthermore, Mrs H says that she stopped making 
repayments to her loan in 2017 and it wasnt until April 2020 that these became due again. 
Which means that Mrs H also had the benefit of not making repayments during that time. So 
whilst I recognise Mrs H may not have chosen to make the overpayments that she did, I 
cant reasonably say that she was financially disadvantaged by doing so. 
I can see that Mrs H was caused further distress and inconvenience by Barclays actions 
when it didnt contact her in April 2020 to let her know that her overpayment balance had 
been used and she needed to start her repayments again. And again, when it then said that 
her loan had been defaulted in January 2022. Barclays has accepted that it should have 
written to Mrs H in April 2020 about the lack of repayments and didnt do so. It also accepted 
that it had given Mrs H incorrect information about the default being applied to her credit file. 
However, Ive seen that Barclays has apologised for this error and paid Mrs H £175 
compensation for the inconvenience caused. Its also refunded the interest payable on 
Mrs Hs loan between November 2017 and October 2021 so that she wasnt financially 
disadvantaged from not being able to make repayments if shed been given the option. And 
its also told Mrs H that there shouldnt be a default registered against her credit file, and if 
this does change to let it know so it can address this. So, I think the bank has done enough 
here to put things right. 
I recognise that Mrs H feels strongly about this and that shell be disappointed with my 
decision. I also acknowledge that Barclays errors happened at what was already an 
extremely distressing period in Mrs Hs life. However, taking all the circumstances of the 
complaint into account, I think Barclays has done enough to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman