DRN-3863537
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with how Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi 
Finance (VWFS) handled her request for help after she lost her job due to the Covid 19 
pandemic.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs C was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
VWFS. The agreement was for £26,291, with an advance payment of £235, followed by 48 
monthly payments of £378, and a final payment of £7,861.  
Mrs C said that she contacted VWFS to explain she couldnt afford her payments after losing 
her job due to the Covid 19 pandemic. She said her initial request for a payment deferral 
was rejected by VWFS because she had already missed one monthly payment.
She said VWFS gave her two options: to sell the car privately, or to voluntary terminate the 
agreement and pay them the amount to bring it up to 50% of the total cost of credit. She said 
she reluctantly accepted the voluntary termination option, as they told her this was the only 
way they would allow her to enter into a payment plan for the shortfall, at an affordable rate.
She was unhappy with the delays in the collection process, and the delays in setting up a 
payment plan. She said she was also upset when she was told the account was being 
passed by VWFS to their solicitors.
She said she was upset that VWFS didnt help her. Shed lost her job due to the pandemic, 
and felt that they didnt help her when she was in a stressful situation.
VWFS said Mrs C contacted them about her financial difficulties in March 2020. They said 
they received her request for a payment deferral in May 2020. They said they declined his 
request because her account was already in arrears. They said they felt it wouldnt have 
been fair to accept a payment deferral as it wouldnt be affordable to her at that time.
They said they explained the various options to Mrs C in June 2020. They said they gave her 
time to consider the options, and Mrs C chose to voluntary terminate. They said Mrs C told 
them in July 2020 she couldnt afford to pay the shortfall amount of £9,879 and arrears of 
£1,515.
They acknowledged that Mrs C called them frequently between July 2020 and October 2020 
to set up a payment plan for the full amount owed of £11,394.
They said theyd passed the account to their solicitors because the amount outstanding was 
more than £10,000. They said Mrs C had been given time to make an informed decision 
about voluntary termination, after theyd explained all the forbearance options to her. They 
agreed they hadnt handled her requests to set up a payment plan as they would have liked 
to, and for that theyd offered the £500 goodwill gesture.
Mrs C was unhappy with VWFSs response, and she brought her complaint to us for 
investigation.
Our investigator felt that VWFS should have granted Mrs C a payment deferral when she 
asked for one in May 2020. This would have covered the payments shed missed in April 
2020, May 2020, and June 2020, and said that they should remove any adverse markers 
recorded with the credit reference agencies. But they said the £500 VWFS had offered for 
their poor service was fair and wouldnt ask them to do anymore.
Our investigator then considered what may have happened if VWFS had granted Mrs C a six 
month payment deferral that she was entitled to following this issue of the guidance from the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in April 2020. They estimated the increase in monthly 
payments, but said there was sufficient information available to say if this wouldve been 
affordable to Mrs C. So they felt Mrs C would have had to voluntary terminate the 
agreement. Overall, they felt VWFS hadnt treated Mrs C unfairly.
Mrs C disagreed. She said she had sufficient disposable income after the payment deferral 
period to afford a payment plan to clear any arrears. She said VWFS didnt allow her to sell 
the car herself and if they had, she says this would have left her with a smaller and more 
manageable amount to pay.
Because Mrs C didnt agree with the investigator, the matter was passed to me to make a 
final decision.
I wasnt satisfied with the steps it appeared VWFS had taken when Mrs C asked to exit the 
agreement. I wrote to them in June 2022 and explained why I felt they couldve done more to 
hep Mrs C. Heres what I said, and the information I asked VWFS to provide:
Im the ombudsman dealing with Mrs Cs complaint. Ive reviewed the case, and I
wanted to let you know that Im minded to reach a different outcome to that of our 
investigator.
Before I do that, I would like to invite you to provide further information.
In all her calls with VWFS, Mrs C has been very open about her financial situation. 
She called you in March 2020 to let you know she could not afford her monthly 
payments as shed lost her job due to the Covid19 pandemic. She was very keen to 
understand her responsibilities and options, and sought advice from you as to what 
her best options would be.
The crux of Mrs Cs complaint is that she was left with no option but to voluntary
terminate. She said this has left her with a debt of £11,394. She said if shed been 
allowed to sell the car privately she would have been left with a substantially lower 
debt.
Ive listened carefully to the call recordings you have provided. Both call handlers 
were polite and empathetic. But I dont consider they fully set out the options 
available to Mrs C. I say this because neither of them suggested voluntary surrender.
In the first call on 23 March 2020, the call handler explained the three options 
available to Mrs C. They said she could:
part exchange for another vehicle that could result in lower paymentssell the vehicle to an individual, a dealer or a buying website, and pay the 
amount received towards the settlement figure. (Provided settlement figure of 
£21,356)
Voluntary Terminate - hand back the car but need to pay shortfall up to 50%
Mrs C was given the same options when she called on 15 June 2020. But in this call
she asked for more information about each option. She specifically asked if you 
would agree an affordable payment plan for the remaining £3k if she sold the car for 
say £18,000. The call handler told her this wouldnt be possible.
She was told shed have to pay the difference within 28 days. You said this was 
because the other party wouldn't be able to sell the car until the agreement was 
settled in full and you could release your financial interest.
I dont consider that to be a reasonable response. Especially when she was told in 
the same call that if she chose the voluntary termination option, you would be able to 
agree a suitable repayment plan based on her income and expenditure.
It was this advice that persuaded Mrs C that she had no option but to Voluntary
Terminate. And leaving her with a debt of more than £11,000.
Im minded to say this wasnt fair or reasonable. And not in line with regulatory 
expectations. I say this because she was clearly in financial difficulty, this isnt 
disputed, but you failed to clearly communicate her options to exit the agreement, 
leading her to choose an option that resulted her in incurring a significantly higher 
debt.
You failed to mention the option to voluntary surrender  where she could have 
returned the vehicle to you, and you couldve sold the car. Whilst this isnt in itself a 
regulatory requirement, I consider it didnt meet the requirement in Principle 6 
(Customers interests) of the FCA Handbook by failing to pay due regard to the 
interests of your customers and treat them fairly. I consider it more likely than not that 
choosing this option wouldve left Mrs C owing a smaller amount, or possibly even no 
shortfall.
Im also satisfied that the failure to offer a repayment plan if she sold the vehicle 
privately is a failure to show the forbearance expected under CONC 7. It appears to 
me that by prioritising the need to remove your financial interest, you have put your 
commercial interest above Mrs Cs best interests. This isnt in line with the guidance 
for the motor industry issued by the FCA in April 2020.
This guidance also expected you to consider the fair treatment of consumers who 
were unable to resume full payments immediate due to circumstances arising out of 
coronavirus. I think that refusing to accept a payment plan for a shortfall arising from 
any option other than voluntary termination is not in line with the guidance.
Putting things right
Im persuaded that Mrs C would have accepted the option to sell the vehicle privately 
or to voluntary surrender if shed been allowed to repay the shortfall through an 
affordable repayment plan. Ive explained above why the failure to do this wasnt in line with regulatory expectations, and led to Mrs C having a significantly higher debt 
than she should have.
Im minded to say that you should calculate the amount Mrs C owes based on what
wouldve happened if she had sold the car privately at that time. Ill also investigate 
what I think she would have obtained on the open market at that time. She should 
also receive any rebate on the interest due under the The Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004.
Before I do so, I invite you to share your comments on my thoughts explained above, 
including any evidence.
Please can you also let me know:
If theres any regulatory or other obligation that I havent relied on that 
prevented you from accepting a payment plan following private sale or 
voluntary surrender: and
What value did you obtain for the car after you took possession of it?
Please can you respond by 24 June 2022. If theres a problem then please let me 
know. If I dont hear from you then Ill issue my decision in line with what Ive set out 
above.
VWFS said that they wouldnt expect the term voluntary surrender to be used or understood 
by their telephony advisors. They said it is a term they would use where the customer has 
paid more than one third of the amount financed and wishes to surrender the car back to 
them. They said they outline the options available to the customer when they say they are 
struggling to meet the payments. They said this is what they did for Mrs C. 
They said they may consider selling the car at a shortfall may be considered where the 
customer is vulnerable. Before doing so they would review income and expenditure to 
establish if this was affordable. They said this didnt happen in this case because Mrs C had 
affordability issues.
VWFS disputed my view that they should have explained the voluntary surrender option to 
Mrs C. I said this would have been in line with the FCAs principle to pay due regard to the 
customers interest. They disagreed and said they thought it would constitute giving the 
customer financial advice. They also said they had been transparent with Mrs C in line with 
FCA guidelines for the Motor Industry.
VWFS disputed my comment that they were prioritising their commercial interest above Mrs 
Cs interests. They said they cannot remove interest if a settlement payment has not been 
received in full. They said this didnt mean they were prioritising their interests above 
customers. They said it meant they were being fair and transparent, in line with FCAs 
expectations to treat customers fairly.
They also said it was impossible to expect a finance company to understand and make 
decisions for a customer on what is best for them as the customer is best placed to do that
They said that Mrs C had accrued arrears of £1,515.40 (4 months arrears April 2020 to July 
2020), meaning out of 8 monthly payments, she had fulfilled half of them.They said they had a right to ask for the full settlement in line with treating their customers 
fairly. 
They said the car was valued at £15,750 when returned to them.
They also asked me to consider a decision by another ombudsman on a matter they 
considered not too dissimilar to this complaint. In that case the ombudsman had said that 
they didnt think in that case it would be fair to require a business to accept less than it was 
entitled to under the hire purchase agreement.
I sent Mrs C and VWFS a provisional decision on 25 November 2022. In this decision I 
explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld. Heres what I said:
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mrs C was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
Ive carefully considered the points made by VWFS in response to my letter to them 
informing them I was minded to uphold this complaint. Having thought about everything 
carefully again, I still think this complaint should be upheld.
Im not satisfied that VWFS paid due regard to Mrs Cs interests and treated her fairly as 
required by the FCA. In particular, Im not satisfied they provided the necessary forbearance 
and due consideration expected in the FCA Handbook in rule CONC 7.3.2, or CONC 7.3.6: 
which requires VWFS to allow the customer, Mrs C, reasonable time and opportunity to 
repay a debt where the customer is in arrears difficulties.
Im satisfied that Mrs C was taking appropriate steps to engage with VWFS for assistance 
when she was impacted financially following the coronavirus pandemic. When it became 
clear to her that she could no longer afford the agreement that shed entered into just a few 
months before her job ended  she sought advice from VWFS. 
She wanted to clear her debts, but could only do so with a payment plan. VWFS would only 
do this if she agreed to voluntary terminate. Im still unsure why they would allow a payment 
plan for a VT, but not for a VS.
VWFS said Mrs C had 4 months arrears as shed missed payments from April 2020 to July 
2020. This is arrears that wouldve accrued if they had granted her the payment holiday she 
was entitled to under the guidance for the Motor Industry issued by the FCA in April 2020. 
But these amounts are still payable so they are entitled to receive those arrears when Mrs C 
opted to exit the agreement. 
VWFS said they wouldnt expect their advisers to use or understand the term voluntary 
surrender. But voluntary surrender is a common way to end a hire purchase agreement 
early. I dont consider an explanation of voluntary surrender to be giving advice  its merely 
providing her with all of the options available to her. I do agree with VWFS that deciding 
what route best suited her circumstances was a decision for Mrs C to make. Even if I accept 
what VWFS said about voluntary surrender, it doesnt change my view that they shouldve 
done more to help Mrs C when she told them she was in financial difficulty in March 2020 
and June 2020.Ive listened to the calls Mrs C had with VWFS. In these calls, she was told she could part 
exchange and enter into a lower cost agreement, sell the car herself and pay the amount 
towards the settlement figure, or voluntary terminate the agreement.
But as I said to VWFS, the crux of Mrs Cs complaint was that she was only offered a 
payment plan for a shortfall arising from voluntary termination. She called on 15 June 2020 
and asked specifically for information about the cost to her arising from each option. She 
was clearly in financial difficulty, and this was because she lost her job due to the 
coronavirus pandemic. 
VWFS told her she could sell her car but would have to pay any shortfall within 28 days. And 
she was told in the same call that they would agree to a repayment plan if she chose to 
voluntary terminate. Im satisfied that she only chose to voluntary terminate as she wanted to 
fulfil her responsibilities and repay the debt, but could only do so by way of a repayment 
plan.
Im persuaded that she would have sold the car herself, or perhaps voluntary surrendered, if 
VWFS had allowed her to pay the shortfall by way of a repayment plan.
I dont think that was fair or reasonable. VWFS unfairly limited her options, potentially leaving 
her with a significantly higher debt. That shortfall might have been reduced if she had been 
allowed to sell the car herself.
The agreement sets out what is due when a customer exercises their right to voluntary 
terminate the agreement. Under the heading Termination: Your Rights, it informs Mrs C that 
if she ended the agreement she would have to return the car and she would owe VWFS half 
the amount payable. In this case, that amount is £13,145.
VWFS said they valued the car at £15,750 when it was returned to them. Ive checked car 
valuation tools available to me and this amount is what those tools suggest Mrs C wouldve 
obtained for the car if shed sold it in June 2020. So I think its reasonable for me to ask 
VWFS to use that value when calculating what the arrears/shortfall might have looked like if 
Mrs C had sold the car and paid £15,750 towards settling the agreement.
VWFS have told me no valid reason why they couldnt enter into a payment plan for the 
lower amount following a voluntary surrender. They said they couldnt remove interest if a 
settlement payment has not been received in full I dont accept that response because it 
doesnt explain why they could do that for voluntary termination but not any other option.
Putting things right
Im persuaded that Mrs C would have accepted the option to sell the vehicle privately, or to 
voluntary surrender, if shed been allowed to repay the shortfall through an affordable 
repayment plan. Ive explained above why the failure to do this wasnt in line with regulatory 
expectations, and led to Mrs C having a potentially higher debt than she should have.
I expect VWFS to consider Mrs Cs current financial situation and treat her with appropriate 
forbearance and agree an affordable payment plan to clear the arrears. 
They should recalculate the arrears. The outstanding arrears (the shortfall) will be the lower 
of:
1. The amount they calculated when the agreement was voluntary terminated in 2020; 
or2. The amount that would have been outstanding if Mrs C had sold the car and paid 
£15,750 to settle the agreement.
They should also ensure no negative markers for missed payments have been placed on 
Mrs Cs credit file.
They should calculate this from June 2020, as Im satisfied Mrs C wouldve exercised this 
option if shed been given this option at the time. 
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mrs C said that VWFS had never paid 
her the £500 they had offered her.
VWFS provided arrears amounts under both options Id set out in my provisional decision. 
They said the VT shortfall was £9,879.58, and the arrears at the time of voluntary 
termination was £1,515.40.
They said that Mrs Cs liability under option 2  if shes been allowed to sell the car and 
settle the agreement  wouldve been £1,215.40. They also said that they hadnt yet paid to 
Mrs C the £500 theyd offered her as a gesture of goodwill. They said they would reduce the 
balance by this amount, leaving Mrs C owing £715.40.
They also confirmed they were happy to agree an affordable payment plan with Mrs C for 
this amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having thought about everything carefully again, I still think this complaint should be upheld. 
This is for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and which Ive set out 
above.
Im satisfied that VWFS shouldve allowed Mrs C to sell the car and settle the agreement, 
and agree an affordable payment plan for the shortfall. This wouldve resulted in her meeting 
her obligations and leave her with a lower amount of debt. This is in line with the necessary 
forbearance and due consideration expected in the FCA Handbook.
VWFS has responded positively to my provisional decision, and Im satisfied that the offer 
theyve made under option 2 is a fair and reasonable offer. I also think this is in line with 
what wouldve happened had they made that offer available to Mrs C at the time.
Putting things right
VWFS should reduce the total amount of Mrs Cs liability to £715.40.
I expect VWFS to consider Mrs Cs current financial situation and treat her with appropriate 
forbearance and agree an affordable payment plan to clear the arrears. 
They should also ensure no negative markers for missed payments have been placed on 
Mrs Cs credit file.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Audi Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman