DRN-4188418
The complaint
Mr H complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund payments he says he didnt make from 
his account.
What happened
Mr H disputes over 200 online card payments from his account that come to more than 
£17,000. He says that Monzo Bank didnt investigate what happened and instead blocked 
his account. He has been suffering from a medical condition and this loss has caused him 
and his family financial hardship.
Monzo Bank said it wouldnt be refunding this money. It said that it had complied with its 
regulatory obligations in investigating what happened and dealing with Mr Hs dispute. 
Monzo Bank said that based on the information it had and the time over which the 
transactions happened it wasnt possible for these payments to have been unauthorised. It 
said that the time to give a response was the result of the review by its specialists. The 
payments in dispute dated back to September 2021 and Mr H had originally reported 46 of 
them in August 2022. Monzo Bank said that as Mr H told it someone else was in possession 
of his card and device it was surprised no further information about this was given in his 
dispute report. It maintained its position when hed provided the schedule of further 
payments. Monzo Bank said it appreciated what he said about his health condition but didnt 
think this affected how the payments were made. It offered to pay him £25 for not 
responding to an email of 8 September 2022. And it said that it had since raised a data 
subject access request (DSAR). 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Monzo Bank do anything further. He said that Mr H 
had confirmed to this service that no one had access to his PIN and the device he used the 
app on was password protected. Our investigator had seen that those payments involving 
strong customer authorisation needed the PIN to be entered into the app. There were 
general banking transactions over the period which Mr H didnt dispute, and hed frequently 
logged into his account. Mr H had transferred money into the account at times just before the 
disputed payments. Our investigator thought it was likely that Mr H would have seen these 
payments if unauthorised sooner and reported them. It was more likely than not that he 
authorised them. Monzo Bank closed his account in line with its terms and conditions. He 
said that if Mr H was unhappy with a response to the DSAR he would need to pursue that as 
a complaint with Monzo Bank first.
Mr H didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said he had provided detail 
about the relevant regulations and practice codes. And he had taken legal advice and 
reserved the right to pursue things further. He didnt believe all the evidence he had provided 
had been evaluated and that Monzo Bank considered his complaint in a timely manner. It 
wasnt enough to say that his security information was used here. He wanted to know what 
Monzo Bank had recorded. He didnt think that it had shown he had authorised the payments 
or that he had been grossly negligent with his details. It hadnt done enough to highlight the 
volume of these payments as suspicious. He provided some publicly available information 
about Monzo Bank freezing accounts and not providing transaction details after account 
closure. He emphasised the impact of what happened and said he  required a refund and 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with card and security details. And if they werent 
authorised Mr H wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of how these payments were made?
- Did Mr H authorise the payments on the account? 
- Did Monzo Bank act reasonably?
I wont be able to say exactly what happened and Ill be thinking about what is most likely 
taking into account everything that has been said relating to the specifics of this complaint 
only. This service provides informal dispute resolution and isnt a court and so if Mr H 
doesnt agree with my decision he remains free to pursue this in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.
Im satisfied based on the information Monzo Bank has provided that these payments were 
authenticated with Mr Hs card and security details. As our investigator says at times 
stronger verification was required in the app. These were it seems gambling payments to 
differing merchants or at least differently branded merchant names.  There was no other 
device registered with the banking app, so all additional verification came through Mr Hs 
device.
The issue here is whether Mr H consented to the payments and authorised them. It isnt 
impossible as he says for someone to discover his card details. I note that these payments 
started in September 2021 soon after the first credit to the account. As our investigator has 
said the payments were only possible due to the transfers into the account over time and 
which Mr H hasnt disputed. There was also genuine use of the account for payments out. 
And there were log ins to the account using the app. Mr H hasnt provided any credible way 
in which an unknown third party would have been able to make all these payments. And 
such a person risked detection and would have likely taken as much money as soon as 
possible while in large part the payments here were individually relatively small to the 
overall claim of loss.
Given the volume of payments I dont necessarily place weight on Monzo Bank saying that 
Mr H initially reported only 46 of them. However, I do think in light of the scale and period 
over which these happened hed have been reasonably expected to notice and report them 
earlier. I appreciate hes provided information about an ongoing health condition and then 
about the impact of this loss for him on his mental health. Im sorry to hear about that. 
Having considered things carefully I dont see hes explained how this would have affected 
the access to the account. I can see if might have delayed him reporting things for a period, 
but I dont see that would be for the time here as he was using the account generally and 
making transfers. 
It was a matter for Monzo Bank to decide how to investigate the dispute. Mr H was able to 
refer things to us and contacted us before it had issued a response to his complaint. I need 
to say that complaint handling isnt a separate regulated activity. Monzo Bank clearly took 
the view that in light of the number of disputed payments it would freeze the account. In my assessment that seemed to protect the account from further payments. And it could decide 
under its terms and conditions to close the account in these circumstances.
Having balanced all the information and as Mr H has referred to considered the overall 
context for him Im afraid Im not persuaded that these payments were made without his 
consent and authority. And that being the case I dont need to think about whether he was 
grossly negligent with his security information. In addition, the question of whether Monzo 
Bank should have done more to highlight the payments is less relevant in these 
circumstances. As Ive said there was an established unchallenged pattern of individual 
payments over a period of time and visible through the app.
Monzo Bank has offered Mr H £25 compensation for not responding to a letter and this 
remains open to him, and I think is fair. Im afraid I wont be requiring it to do anything more 
than this. I know Mr H will be very disappointed that I think it is reasonable for Monzo Bank 
to hold him responsible for these payments especially given what he says about his 
personal circumstances.
My final decision
Monzo Bank has offered to pay Mr H £25 to settle his complaint which I think is reasonable 
in the circumstances. My decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd pay Mr H £25 as it has already 
offered to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman