DRN-3724782
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt refunded transactions he says he didnt
make or otherwise authorise.
Background
In around July 2020, Mr M was contacted by someone and persuaded to invest his money
with a third-party investment platform. Unfortunately, this call came from a scammer, rather
than a legitimate investment company. It has since been the subject of a warning published
on the website of the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Mr M was interested in investing and was persuaded to make a small payment of £250
which he made by credit card. I understand he was given access to an online platform that
purported to show the performance of his investment.
Several months later, he was called again. He was told that his investment had grown and
that hed earned a return of £1,000. He was invited to invest more, but he declined. He
simply wanted to withdraw the money hed made so far.
He was told that the process for doing so was not straightforward. His return couldnt just be
paid back onto the credit card hed used to make his initial payment. He was told he needed
to set up accounts with another business and that this would allow his withdrawal of funds to
be processed. Although Mr M didnt realise it, the accounts were with two businesses that
operate as cryptocurrency platforms.
Under the guise of helping Mr M with the process, the scammers persuaded him to install
remote access software to his laptop and his phone so that they could create these
accounts. As far as Mr M was concerned, this was a necessary step in having the proceeds
of his £250 investment returned to him. He says that two days later, he logged in to his
online banking and saw several debit card payments that he hadnt authorised. The total
value of these payments was for over £20,000.
These payments were to the accounts that had been created in his name with the two
cryptocurrency platforms I referred to earlier. Mr M has hypothesised that the scammers,
having taken remote control of his devices, had made these payments without his
knowledge or permission.
He notified HSBC and asked that it refund the money he lost to the scammers. It
investigated but declined to pay him a refund. In summary, its reasons for doing so were as
followings:
The payments had been made via the same IP address Mr M had used to access his 
online banking and so it thought it was likely hed authorised the payments. 
There was no compelling explanation as to how the details of Mr Ms card had fallen 
into the hands of the fraudsters. 
Each payment had been verified using a one-time passcode (OTP) which was sent 
to Mr Ms mobile phone, but he insists that he didnt share these codes with the 
scammer.
It was suspicious that these payments were made so soon after a significant transfer 
of £8,000 was paid into his account.
Mr M was unhappy with this response from HSBC. He said that it shouldnt be his problem if
HSBC has been hacked. It ought to pay him a refund.
He referred his case to this service, and it was allocated to an Investigator who upheld it. On
balance, the Investigator thought it was likely that the scammers had remotely access Mr
Ms devices and used them to make payments. He identified several possible ways that the
scammer couldve made the payments without Mr Ms knowledge. In particular, he noted
that the remote access software had a functionality allowing it to remotely access devices on
a continuous basis. This meant that, even if Mr M wasnt looking at his laptop or phone at the
time, they could still have remotely used them to make the payments.
It wasnt clear how Mr Ms debit card details had fallen into the hands of the fraudster. But it
was possible that hed entered them when registering for his account with the original third-
party investment platform (albeit he made his first payment using a credit card). He also said
that he stored photographs of his card on his phone and so its possible the scammers
accessed his card details by way of remotely accessing his devices.
HSBC disagreed with the Investigators recommendation that the complaint be upheld. It
reiterated the points it had already made when it declined Mr Ms complaint. But it added that
it considered Mr Ms testimony regarding the creation of the accounts with the
cryptocurrency platforms to have been inconsistent.
It also said that it was implausible that the scammers couldve obtained Mr Ms debit card
details from stored images on his phone or that they couldve remotely accessed his devices
over such a long period and have avoided detection.
Because HSBC disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint was passed to me to
consider. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 6 September 2022. I wrote that:
The relevant regulations say that HSBC can hold Mr M liable for payments that he
authorised. Mr M insists that he didnt authorise the payments and has speculated 
about how they might have been carried out. I should be clear at the outset that I 
cant know with certainty what happened here. And where there is such uncertainty, I 
must reach a decision on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I must consider 
the evidence that is available to me and reach a finding on whether this suggests its 
more likely than not that these transactions were authorised.
I agree with the Investigator that there is some circumstantial evidence that suggests 
Mr M may not have authorised these transactions. I can see, for example, that he 
was very prompt in reporting the payments to HSBC. In a typical investment scam 
case, it tends to take a much longer period before the reality of the scam comes to 
light. The fact that Mr M told HSBC about the payments so promptly suggests that he 
hadnt been expecting the money to leave his account. Similarly, the Investigator pointed out that Mr M appeared to have carefully managed his account over the 
years and never had cause to use its overdraft. But in this instance, following the 
fraudulent transactions, his account was left overdrawn.
However, Im not persuaded that theres been an adequate explanation as to how the
fraudster accessed Mr Ms card details and was able to access the OTPs that were 
sent to his phone. Ive looked into how the remote access software in question works. 
Typically, where its used to grant remote access, permission must be given each 
time. This requires the person granting remote access to open up their device and 
proactively accept a connection request. As HSBC pointed out, these payments were 
not made in quick succession. This process would likely need to have been followed 
on more than one occasion. I can see that this piece of software can allow 
unsupervised remote access to a PC, but it appears that it can only be done with 
significant difficulty on a mobile device.
Remote access would also not be possible if the laptop PC wasnt operating (for 
example, if it had been put in standby mode). It also wouldnt prevent Mr M from 
seeing the OTPs when they were sent to his phone. To avoid detection, the scammer 
wouldve needed to swiftly delete those messages or hide them.
The software in question creates something known as a trace file on a PC. This 
keeps a log of detailed information regarding all connection requests made using that 
software. A similar log is available via a mobile device, although accessing it isnt 
quite as straightforward. This evidence would shed light on whether there was 
genuine remote access to Mr Ms devices at the times these payments left his 
account. Unfortunately, Mr M told our Investigator that he no longer has either 
device.
It's hard to be certain about what happened here. I accept that Mr Ms explanation as 
to how the transactions took place is possible, but its considerably less likely and 
unfortunately, he hasnt been able to provide much evidence in support of it. I realise 
he will find this outcome extremely disappointing. But given the evidence I have, and 
on the balance of probabilities, Im unable to fairly reach any other conclusion. There 
is no plausible way for anyone else to have accessed his devices to make these 
payments and avoid Mr M realise it was happening. From the evidence that both 
sides have provided to me, I dont consider that HSBC acted unfairly by holding Mr M 
liable for the payments in dispute.
HSBC responded to say it had nothing further to add. Mr M disagreed with my provisional 
findings. He said that I was wrong to say that he didnt have the devices anymore. He said 
that he did still have them but that they were damaged in a flood. He also said that his 
device couldve been hacked via Bluetooth or Wi-fi. He said his laptop PC didnt have sleep 
mode enabled because he was downloading films online. 
Mr M also asked that I speak to him over the phone to discuss his case. I dont think thats 
necessary. He has had ample opportunity to explain his case in conversations with the 
Investigator who looked into his complaint at first instance and Ive had access to those 
conversations. Theres nothing in his response to my provisional decision that suggests he 
has new arguments to raise or evidence to provide, so Im satisfied I can fairly decide this 
case without a telephone conversation. 
Ive reconsidered the case in the light of what Mr M has told me and Im not persuaded to 
depart from the outcome I had set out in my provisional decision. Ive taken on board what 
Mr M has said about disabling the sleep mode on his laptop. But its still unclear to me how a 
third-party was able to remotely control his phone without his knowledge. The process isnt as straightforward as Mr M has suggested. Simply having his mobile phone connected to the 
laptop wouldnt allow a third party to remotely control it merely because theyd established 
remote control of the laptop itself. 
Overall, I remain of the view that Mr Ms explanation as to how the fraud took place is far-
fetched and theres very little evidence to support it. I set out the sort of evidence that might 
demonstrate that a third-party had remotely accessed his devices and how he could share 
that with us, but he hasnt done so. He has pointed out that hes happy to hand over the 
laptop and the phone to our service if we arrange for a courier to collect them. 
However, the onus is on Mr M to provide evidence in support of his case and, from the 
evidence that both sides have supplied to me, I cant fairly reach any conclusion other than 
the one I set out in my provisional decision. Overall, Im not persuaded that HSBC acted 
unfairly in holding Mr M liable for the transactions.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman