DRN-3834036
The complaint
Mr S complains about UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) increasing 
the premiums on his pet insurance policy.
References to Direct Line include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a lifetime pet insurance policy for his cat with Direct Line in 2012, which he 
renewed each year thereafter. In the early years of the policy, as Mr S was a member of staff 
at Direct Line he benefited from a discount of 50% until he left in 2018. In July 2022 he 
received his renewal notice, including a proposed premium of £1,020.19. Mr S was 
concerned at the size of the increase, coming after significant increases to his premium in 
previous years (renewal year) as follows:
£188.68 (2018, includes 50% staff discount))
£499,11 (2019, after negotiation and discount removal, increase of 164%)
£638.87 (2020, increase of 28%)
£711.63 (2021, increase of 11%)
£833.21* (2022, increase of 17%)
*Note  Premium discounted by 10% from initial renewal figure of £1,020.19 following discussion with Mr S 
Mr S challenged Direct line about the reasons for the increases, cumulatively over 100% 
from 2019 to 2022. But he wasnt provided with more specific reasons beyond those cited in 
renewal documentation (such as the higher frequency of claims for older pets and vet fees 
inflation). He felt without detailed, specific reasons for the increases in his premium, he 
couldnt make an informed choice about whether to renew his policy.
Direct Line treated Mr Ss concerns as a complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In their final 
response they said renewal premiums were system generated based on the information 
available and confirmed the renewal premium offered was in line with their pricing structure. 
They couldnt give the specific reasons for the premium increase due to the commercially 
sensitive nature of policy pricing. But they referred to factors considered, including the age of 
the pet and vet fee and claims inflation. 
Mr S then complained to this service. The main part of his complaint was the significant 
increases in the policy premium since 2018 as well as the lack of transparency and detail 
about the reasons for the increases. While he understood as a pet grew older the risk of 
claims arising would also increase, he wanted Direct Line to quantify the factors affecting the 
level of premiums to provide him with assurance the policy was offering him fair value.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. While the policy terms when the policy was taken out 
indicated Direct Line might change the policy details and premium at subsequent renewals, 
this was only set out in the detailed policy terms, he thought Direct Line could have done 
more to provide clear information on the long-term risk of the premium rising. Because of 
this, he thought Direct Line should pay Mr S £250 compensation. The investigator noted 
what Direct Line said about most of the premium rises in previous years being due to 
removal of Mr Ss 50% staff discount, however premiums rose by a cumulative 88% after 
removal of the discount in 2019. 
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint.  In disagreeing, his main points were that he wasnt persuaded the premiums hed 
paid were reasonable or justified and Direct Line hadnt provided him with any meaningful 
information to justify the premium increases, or for him to make an informed choice (when 
the policy was taken out and at subsequent renewals).
Direct Line also disagreed with the investigators conclusions, regarding the issue of 
compensation. They thought Mr Ss previous experience with them and his experience in the 
insurance industry would mean he would have had a better understanding of underwriting 
and insurance pricing practices than a consumer who didnt have that experience.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Direct Line has acted fairly towards Mr S. In doing so, 
under the rules relating to complaints this service can look at, Ive only considered issues 
going back six years from the date of Mr Ss complaint to this service. As Mr S complained to 
this service in September 2022, this means issues from September 2016. So, it doesnt 
include the policy being taken out in 2012 and subsequent renewals up to 2016. In practice, 
however, Mr Ss complaint is focused on the increases in premiums at renewal between 
2019 and 2022 (as before 2019, he benefited from the 50% staff discount).  
The main issue in Mr Ss complaint is the significant increase in premiums (cumulatively, 
67% from 2019 to 2022, based on the discounted premium for 2022). Mr S is also unhappy 
at what he sees as Direct Line not being transparent about the reasons for the increases, 
nor providing him with sufficient detail to enable him to assess whether the policy provided 
fair value and making an informed choice. Direct Line say the premiums have been 
calculated based on the information available and is in line with their pricing structure for pet 
insurance policies. They refer to factors including the age of the pet, vet fee and claims 
inflation as driving the premium increase.
Ill consider each element in turn, together with the views, evidence and information put 
forward by Mr S and by Direct Line. 
From the information Ive seen, the two main factors behind the increases are, firstly, the 
removal of the 50% discount Mr S received up to 2018, following his leaving Direct Line. 
That would always have had a significant impact, particularly in the first year after he left 
(2019). But its absence would also mean future premium increases would not be mitigated 
by its application.
The second factor is the age of Mr Ss cat. From the information Ive seen, while there isnt a 
precise date of birth recorded (by Direct Line) the age of the cat at the time of the 2018 
renewal was 12 years and 16 years at the 2022 renewal. From what Direct line have said, 
there are increases in risk costs for cats from 12 to 16 years old, as the likelihood of a cat (or 
other pet) being affected by illness  and therefore claims  will increase with age. From 
what Ive seen from Direct Line, these risk cost increases are significant. This is consistent 
with the approach taken to pet insurance policies across the industry.Together with the absence of the dampening effect of the 50% staff discount, Ive 
concluded these are the two principal drivers of the increase in premium costs over the 
period 2019 to 2022. 
Ive also noted that the information for Mr Ss policy indicates it doesnt include provision for 
co-payment towards the cost of claims. In other pet insurance policies Ive seen, provision 
is made for the policyholder to agree to contribute a proportion of the costs of any claims, 
typically when the pet reaches a certain age. This reflects the increased likelihood of illness 
and claims as a pet ages and has a similar dampening effect on the level of premiums.
Another factor in the level of premiums, as the policy documentation refers to (under the 
heading of General Conditions)is the following statement:
16. We may change any details relating to your policy and premium on each 
anniversary date of the start of your insurance policy and your pets claims history will 
be taken into account.
From the information supplied by Direct Line, the claims history for Mr Ss cat indicates one 
claim made in 2016. I havent seen the value of the claim but given the date it occurred its 
unlikely to have had a significant effect (if any) on the level of premiums from 2018 onwards. 
But as Ive noted above, the key factor driving premiums is the age of the pet and the risk 
factor associated with increasing age.
Having reached these conclusions, its also relevant to make the point that its a commercial 
decision by Direct Line about how they set renewal premiums and what factors they take 
account of (and the weighting/loading of those factors). As such, it isnt something I can 
conclude is unreasonable. So, Ive concluded they havent acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Mr S.
Ive then considered the other main element of Mr Ss complaint, that Direct Line havent 
been transparent about the reasons for the increases, nor providing him with sufficient detail 
to enable him to assess whether the policy provided fair value and making an informed 
choice. Direct Line refer to factors including the age of the pet, vet fee and claims inflation as 
driving the premium increase. They also say the detailed information underpinning the 
process by which premiums are set is commercially sensitive, so they dont share it with 
policyholders (including Mr S).
Having considered both points of view, I dont think Direct Lines position is unreasonable. 
The policy documentation makes it clear the policy is an annual one, subject to renewal on 
the terms set out in the renewal documentation. This includes the level of premium, the 
cover provided as well as other information. The information is provided before the date the 
policy renews, so Mr S would have the opportunity to challenge the terms offered, including 
the premium. Ive noted Mr S did so in both 2019 and in 2022, making changes in 2019 and 
receiving a 10% discount in 2022. Its also open to Mr S to look for alternative cover with 
other insurers if he isnt happy with the terms offered (including the premium). 
I appreciate the point he makes about the likelihood of pre-existing conditions being 
excluded from cover should a policyholder switch to another insurer. But this is common with 
pet insurance policies, and its for Mr S to consider this factor against potentially lower 
premiums or other advantages when deciding whether to renew his policy or look for cover 
elsewhere. This would enable him to make an informed choice (by comparing the terms from 
Direct Line with other potential insurers) about whether the policy offered what he considers 
fair value. Coming back to the main issue of the complaint, while I think Direct Line havent acted 
unreasonably in calculating the renewal premium and not providing a detailed breakdown of 
the pricing information used to generate the premium, I have considered the point about 
whether he was made sufficiently aware of the likelihood of the premium increasing 
significantly over the lifetime of the policy. Mr S says what hes asking for is to be shown how 
the risk has changed in the last four years to support Direct Lines claim that it offers fair 
value for the product. 
While I cant consider the original sale of the policy and renewals before 2017, from the 
documentation Ive seen, the only reference to changes in the premium at subsequent 
renewals would appear to be the General Condition referred to above. 
That makes no reference to the impact of the increasing age of a pet (as opposed to claims 
history) on the level of premium over time. While it may be a reasonable assumption, I think 
Direct Line could have made it more explicit in its documentation, in particular at annual 
renewals. 
As Ive explained, its a commercial decision for Direct Line how they set premiums and what 
factors they take account of. And as its commercially sensitive, I wouldnt expect them to 
provide a detailed explanation to Mr S, but it could have explained more clearly the impact of 
a pets age. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive also considered Direct Lines point about Mr Ss previous 
experience with them and his experience in the insurance industry would mean he would 
have had a better understanding of underwriting and insurance pricing practices than a 
consumer who didnt have that experience. I accept this may be the case, but it doesnt 
change my conclusion Direct Line could have made things more explicit in its 
documentation, so that any policyholder (including Mr S) would have a better understanding 
of the likelihood of increasing premiums over time. 
It would have been a shock for Mr S to discover how much his premiums increased, with 
little explanation give for this. In recognition of the impact this had on Mr S, I think Direct Line 
should pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience..
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. I 
require UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line to:
Pay Mr S £250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
UK Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line must pay the compensation within 28 days of 
the date on which we tell them Mr S accept my final decision. If they pay later than this, they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman