DRN-2581421
The complaint
Mr B complains because BUPA Insurance Limited gave him incorrect information about his 
private medical insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr B was insured under a private medical insurance policy, provided by BUPA. 
BUPA incorrectly told Mr B on several occasions that his cover under the policy ended on 
31 August 2019. As a result of this incorrect information, Mr B cancelled treatment he was 
receiving as well as a referral to specialist that would otherwise have been covered under 
the policy. 
In April 2020, Mr B found out he was covered under the original insurance policy until 
31 August 2020. He complained to BUPA, asking for the policy to be extended to cover the 
months of treatment he had lost. 
BUPA sent a final response letter to Mr B apologising for the errors it had made. BUPA said 
it was unable to extend Mr Bs cover but paid him £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused. 
As Mr B remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to the attention of our service. 
Our investigator agreed that BUPA had made an error but said he thought the compensation 
paid was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that BUPA made an error in the information it provided to Mr B. BUPA has 
acknowledged and apologised for this. The question I need to decide is what I think BUPA 
should do to put things right. 
Mr B wanted BUPA to extend the original policy to cover the months hed missed but BUPA 
said this wasnt something it could do. This also isnt something which our service can direct. 
We dont have the power to require an insurer to continue to provide cover under an 
annually renewable insurance policy such as the one Mr B was insured under which is due 
to expire or which has already expired. However, it is within my remit to recommend that 
BUPA should reimburse Mr B for any financial loss which I think he has suffered as a result 
of its error. I can also direct that BUPA should pay compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience which its mistake caused Mr B. 
If Mr B had paid for medical treatment privately then Id expect BUPA to reimburse him this 
money. But Mr B didnt have any such outlay. It wouldnt be fair to ask BUPA to pay Mr B 
what such treatment would have cost him, when this wasnt money that Mr B actually spent.
Instead, Mr B sought treatment through the NHS. Mr B said he was put onto long waiting 
lists and given unhelpful treatment plans, before treatment fell through due to the Covid-19 
outbreak. Mr B subsequently took out a new policy with BUPA in September 2020 in order to 
resume access to private treatment. 
Ive considered what Mr B has said about the premiums paid for both the original and for the 
new private medical insurance policy. The premiums paid for the original policy were paid by 
the main member named on the membership certificate and this main member hasnt 
brought a complaint to BUPA or to our service. I cant ask BUPA to refund Mr B premiums 
which he hasnt paid for. 
Turning to the premiums Mr B paid for the policy which started in September 2020, Mr B had 
a number of months cover remaining under the original policy when he found out about 
BUPAs error. The timing of the situation was unfortunate, but the impact of the Covid-19 
pandemic on both NHS and private medical treatment availability was something which was 
outside of BUPAs control. I entirely understand why Mr B wished to obtain treatment 
privately given the circumstances he found himself in, but it was his choice to take out a new 
private medical insurance policy. The new policy doesnt just cover the treatment Mr B was 
claiming for under the original policy, it also covers the risk of Mr B requiring treatment for a 
wide-range of other medical conditions. Therefore, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to ask BUPA to refund or pay for the premiums for the policy which commenced in 
September 2020. 
Mr B says he lost out financially because his health problems led to him taking time off work 
and deferring university modules, which had an impact on his student loans. Im sorry to 
hear about the difficulties Mr B has been through. But, without evidence demonstrating these 
circumstances were caused as a sole and direct result of Mr B missing out on medical 
treatment as well as evidence of the value of these losses, it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
to ask BUPA to reimburse Mr B for the money he has mentioned. Instead, Ive factored what 
Mr B has said about this into my consideration of what award of compensation I think is 
appropriate in the circumstances. 
Ive taken into account that Mr B was unable to access private treatment between August 
2019 and April 2020 due to BUPAs error, as well as the frustration Mr B will undoubtedly 
have experienced when he found out there had been a mistake. I also note Mr B had to book 
appointments with his GP to obtain new referrals, which will have caused him further 
inconvenience. 
Its difficult to put a value on the impact BUPAs error had on Mr B. Ive considered all the 
points Mr B has raised and Ive also had regard to our published guidance on the payment of 
compensation for distress, inconvenience and suffering. I understand Mr B is unhappy with 
the £500 which BUPA has paid him, but a payment of this amount is at the top end of the 
category of compensation which I think Mr Bs circumstances warrant. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied that the £500 payment which BUPA has made 
is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances, for the impact BUPAs mistake 
had on him. This means I wont be asking BUPA to pay Mr B anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman