DRN-4293104
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund money he lost to a scam.
What happened
Mr S was looking into equity release on a property he owned. He says he found a company 
 R  through a recommendation from a friend who said R could provide the services he 
needed. Mr S signed a contract with R for equity release of £84,000, the agreement was that 
he would make six payments of £1,400 each, before the £84,000 would be released to him.
Mr S made the six payments, but did not receive the money he had been promised. So in 
October 2022 Mr S reported to TSB that hed been scammed. Ultimately, TSB did not think it 
was obliged to refund any of the money lost to Mr S, and it said that it felt this was more of a 
civil dispute than a scam.
Mr S remained unhappy, and referred his complaint about TSB to us. Our Investigator felt 
that it was more likely that what had happened to Mr S was a scam, but nonetheless did not 
consider that TSB could have done anything to prevent that scam or that it had any 
responsibility to refund the money lost to Mr S.
Mr S didnt agree, so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Its not in dispute that Mr S authorised the payments himself as he thought he was dealing 
with a legitimate company. Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that TSB is 
expected to process payments and withdrawals that Mr S authorises it to make, in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the account. And Mr S will then be responsible 
for the transactions that he has authorised. 
Because of this, Mr S is not automatically entitled to a refund. But the regulatory landscape, 
along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for account providers to 
protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes monitoring accounts 
to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm, 
intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent customers falling 
victims to scams.
TSB has said it does not believe that what happened to Mr S was a scam, but Im satisfied 
that its more likely than not this was a scam or otherwise fraud in some way. I say this 
because while the account the funds were sent to does appear to be in the same name as R 
 who Mr S intended to pay  Im not satisfied that R was entitled to offer lending, that the 
contract Mr S signed was legitimate, or that Mr S was necessarily dealing with the 
individuals he thought he was dealing with. I dont think we can be certain of exactly what 
happened here, but there are enough discrepancies to suggest that something untoward 
was going on and that the equity release agreement Mr S thought he entered into was not a 
legitimate agreement.
So given that Im satisfied this was more likely than not a scam, I need to decide whether 
TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S when he made the payment 
requests, or whether it should have done more than it did to protect him from financial harm.
Mr S made six payments to the scammers, over the course of six months, each payment 
was for £1,400. And looking at the way Mr S used his account, I cant say that any of these 
payments were unusual enough to have seemed suspicious or to have stood out to TSB. 
The payments were relatively low in value  in the wider context of Mr S account usage  
were made to a UK bank account apparently belonging to a legitimate company, and left the 
account with a healthy balance after they were processed. They also didnt follow a common 
pattern of scam transactions as they were made over an extended period of time and were 
not for escalating amounts. To TSB, the transactions appeared to be genuinely authorised 
payments and there was no reason why they wouldnt have seemed genuine. So I dont 
think TSB acted unreasonably in processing the payments without making further enquiries.
There is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. If all payments such as the
ones Mr S made were blocked while further enquiries were made, many genuine payments
would be stopped which would cause significant disruption and delay. So, as TSB had no 
reason to interact with Mr S at the time of these payments, Im satisfied it didnt 
unreasonably miss an opportunity to prevent these payments before they were sent.
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect TSB to have done anything
further until Mr S notified it hed been scammed. And I understand this wasnt until October 
2022, over a year after the last payment had been made. Its not clear why there was such a 
long delay in Mr S reporting what had happened, but Ive nonetheless thought about whether 
TSB could have done more to recover the funds after Mr S reported the fraud, as in some 
circumstances the money can be recovered via the bank raising an indemnity with the 
receiving bank. 
TSB didnt contact the receiving bank directly at the time, as it considered this was a civil 
dispute case rather than a case of fraud, but even if it had done Im satisfied TSB would not 
have been able to recover Mr S funds. I say this as the receiving bank has confirmed all the 
funds had been removed before the fraud was reported by Mr S.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, and Im sorry to hear he has been 
the victim of a cruel scam. However, Im not persuaded that TSB can fairly or reasonably be 
held liable for his loss in these circumstances, so I wont be asking it to refund any of the 
funds Mr S has lost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Sophie MitchellOmbudsman