DRN-4219849
The complaint
Ms G says U K Insurance Limited (UKI) provided poor service, cancelled her motor 
insurance policy unfairly and didnt ensure she was aware of the cancellation.  
What happened
On 16 January 2023 Ms G bought a telematics policy with UKI through a comparison 
website. After a non-fault accident on 10 February 2023 she found the policy had been 
cancelled on 6 February 2023. UKI said that was because Ms G hadnt downloaded the 
telematics application (the app) as required within seven days of the policys start date. It 
said its welcome letter and pack - which referred to the need to download / register the app 
 was sent to her by email (and to her account in the online portal) on 16 January 2023. And 
it said an email reminder was issued on 21 January 2023. 
As Ms G didnt respond, UKI sent a letter to her by post on 23 January 2023 telling her the 
policy would be cancelled on 6 February 2023 if she didnt download / register the app 
before then or contact UKI. UKI issued further letters to Ms G on 7 February 2023 and on 9 
February 2023 (also sent to the portal) to confirm the cancellation. 
Ms G said she hadnt received UKIs reminder email, nor the letter giving her notice of 
cancellation. She said she hadnt checked the portal, and that she only received the letters 
confirming the cancellation on 15 February 2023. Ms G also said she hadnt understood the 
type of policy shed bought, or that the app was fundamental to it. She said she wouldnt 
have bought the policy had she known the facts. In addition, Ms G said as UKI wouldnt give 
any details to her partner on 10 February 2023, they didnt know the car wasnt insured. She 
said they drove it uninsured for seven days in total until she was able to call UKI.
One of our investigators reviewed Ms Gs complaint. He thought UKI had acted in line with 
the policys terms and conditions and that its correspondence with Ms G was clear. He 
thought it had provided evidence of the required postal cancellation notice having been 
issued. He said UKI didnt have to prove that its emails and letters had been received, just 
that they were sent to the correct addresses. Ms G provided numerous comments in 
response to the investigators view. But in essence, she said the nature of the policy wasnt 
made clear, that UKIs correspondence was misleading and that she shouldnt have had to 
check the portal for important letters. The complaint was then passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G chose a telematics policy, which was designed to record driving behaviour with a view 
to a possible reduction in premium for good driving. These policies are generally useful to 
new or inexperienced drivers, or those with a poor driving history, and they are likely to 
benefit most from them. Ms G thinks the policy was mis-sold, but it wasnt recommended to 
her; she selected it from those shown on the comparison website. 
As Ms G and her partner are experienced drivers with good driving records, the policy is 
unlikely to have benefited them. But theres no evidence that Ms G was misled into buying it. 
UKI has shown that the policy type was made clear on the comparison website and in the 
documents on its own website, which were sent to her as soon as she accepted the quote, 
via the portal. UKI says that form of communication was Ms Gs stated preference - and the 
welcome email was also sent that day. Ms G says she got these documents (which set out 
the need to download / register the app within seven days). And she says she downloaded 
the app straight away - but she then forgot to register it. 
If Ms G wasnt aware shed bought a data-driven policy that required her and her partners 
driving to be continuously monitored through an app, its inexplicable that she didnt query it 
as soon as that became apparent, rather than just downloading the app. Ms G and her 
partner must have had many standard motor insurance policies previously, and standard 
policies dont have such requirements. But she allowed the policy to stay in place.
I appreciate that Ms G didnt receive the reminder email from UKI on 21 January 2023 - 
although UKI can show it was issued. But I think she had enough information already either 
to register the app and let the policy continue, or to call UKI to query its requirements. As 
she did neither, I think UKI had a valid reason to cancel the policy. It can show that it issued 
a letter by post (in line with the policys terms and conditions) on 23 January 2023, giving her 
14 days notice of cancellation. As she didnt get it, Ms G thinks it should have been sent by 
other means (such as recorded delivery). But we cant tell insurers what processes to put in 
place - and UKI kept to the method that was set out clearly in the policy booklet. 
I think its very unfortunate that Ms G appears to have been let down by the postal system. It 
seems one letter was lost altogether. Two others took an undue length of time to arrive 
(although the cancellation confirmation was on the portal before 10 February 2023, when the 
accident happened). The other driver and her insurer took full responsibility for the damage 
caused, but Ms G will have to advise other insurers about the cancellation. I think the 
circumstances leading to it were such that it may not have the adverse impact on her future 
premiums that she fears. But either way, I dont think UKI can be blamed for the cancellation 
or for any consequences arising from it.
Ms G also complained to UKI about the poor service her partner received when he called to 
report the accident. She says UKIs advisor wouldnt give him any information and ended the 
call. UKI says the call dropped unexpectedly, which I think is more likely to have been the 
case. It isnt uncommon when multiple lines are in use - and the call ending suddenly was 
likely to lead to Ms Gs partner calling back anyway  which he did a few minutes later. The 
advisor told him that due to data protection rules, the permission of the policy holder (Ms G) 
was needed in order for UKI to discuss the policy with him. As thats accurate, and reflects 
standard practice, I dont think theres evidence of poor service in relation to this issue.
I dont have any doubt that due to the accident and the cancellation, Ms G faced a great deal 
of stress. That was the last thing she needed given her personal situation at the time, as she 
was coping with a new-born and a toddler. Its clear from the correspondence that Ms G 
spent a lot of time dealing with UKI and challenging its actions very shortly after she left 
hospital with her baby. That must have been exhausting and hugely inconvenient in the 
circumstances. But despite my sympathy for Ms G, I dont think shes shown that UKI 
cancelled the policy unfairly, that it didnt provide sufficient notice of the cancellation - or that 
it provided poor service. I know Ms G will be disappointed with my decision, but as I dont 
think theres evidence of UKI having acted unreasonably, I cant uphold her complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman