DRN-1235908
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr S applied for a further advance on the buy-to-let mortgage they hold with 
Lloyds Bank PLC, and theyre unhappy with the valuation figures given (for both the overall 
value of the property and the monthly rental income).
What happened
Mrs and Mr S bought this property in October 2018 for £275,000. In July 2019 they applied 
for a further advance and at that time the property was valued at £325,000. The original 
valuation when they bought the property said it should achieve a rental income of £1,300 a 
month, and the valuation in 2019 said £1,200 a month. Due to the valuation figures given in 
2019 Mrs and Mr S couldnt borrow any further money secured against that property.
Mrs and Mr S appealed, saying estate agents had valued the property at around £400,000 
and they had a tenant in that was paying £1,450 a month. Lloyds referred that information, 
along with some comparables, to the surveyor but they werent willing to increase their 
figures.
Lloyds didnt uphold the main thrust of Mrs and Mr S complaint, however it did pay £300 
compensation for raising their expectations as it sent out a mortgage offer when it shouldnt 
have done so.
Our investigator said Lloyds was entitled to rely on the opinion of the surveyor, and the £300 
compensation was fair. Mrs and Mr S didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mrs and Mr S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint. Although Ive read and considered the whole 
file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it 
in order to reach the right outcome. 
Lloyds doesnt have the expertise to value property, so it employs the services of a surveyor. 
When doing so, its obliged to instruct a suitably qualified surveyor  a requirement that was 
fulfilled in this case by appointing a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. 
Lloyds isnt accountable for the conduct of the individual surveyor or any act (or omission) by 
the surveyor or the firm they work for. That includes the valuation figures given.
Lloyds is in our jurisdiction, but only for things it did (or didnt do); we cant consider 
complaints against it for things a separate business did (or didnt do). All I can consider 
against Lloyds is if it discharged its duty in instructing a suitable firm of surveyors and having 
considered everything Im satisfied it did.
I understand why Mrs and Mr S are confused because an estate agent had suggested 
marketing their property at £400,000 and they had a tenant in the property who was paying 
£1,450 a month. But Lloyds instructed a suitably qualified surveyor, it went through an 
appeals process, and it was entitled to rely on the professional expertise and judgement of 
the surveyor. I understand how disappointing this was for Mrs and Mr S but Lloyds didnt 
need to do anything more. 
Lloyds has paid £300 compensation for its error in sending out a mortgage offer when it 
shouldnt have done, and everything considered Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable 
offer, so I make no further order or award.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of the 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman