DRN-3381230
The complaint
Mr A complains about the end of contract charges in relation to a car that was supplied 
through a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS). 
What happened
In August 2017 Mr A acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. 
The car was registered in September 2014, which means it was about three years old and 
had travelled around 35,814 miles at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was 
£31,295 and a deposit of £4,000 was made. So, the total amount financed on this agreement 
was £27,295 payable over 48 months.
Mr A said MBFS incorrectly applied some charges at the end of his hire purchase 
agreement. Following Mr As complaint to them, MBFS removed some of the charges as 
they felt theyd been applied incorrectly. 
Mr A however remained unhappy that MBFS decided to charge him £115.75 for a literature 
pack that wasnt present when the car was collected. Mr A said he sent the literature pack to 
MBFS by registered post to their head office and has proof of postage and receipt. MBFS 
advised Mr A they couldnt locate the pack and a replacement was required.
In MBFS final response to Mr As complaint they explained that Mr A had been provided 
with a copy of their Vehicle Returns Standards (VRS) which they believe would have given 
Mr A the opportunity to familiarise himself with their fair wear and tear expectations. 
Unhappy that MBFS wouldnt remove the charge for the literature pack, Mr A brought his 
complaint to this service for investigation. Our investigator gave their view that MBFS had 
acted fairly in the circumstances and didnt ask them to do anything more.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr A asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Mr A complains about charges applied at the end of a hire purchase agreement. Entering 
into consumer credit contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can look 
into Mr As complaint against MBFS.
What Ive considered here is whether the literature pack is an item that can be charged for 
under the guidance issued by MBFS. Ive also considered whether it was reasonable for 
MBFS to charge Mr A for it in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
In addition to the VRS, Ive also considered the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Association (BVRLA) guide to fair wear and tear. I understand MBFS are not BVRLA 
members, but Im happy this is a useful benchmark when considering whats fair and 
reasonable.
The VRS says: please ensure that your vehicle meets the vehicle return standards before 
having it collected by one of our representatives. Items to be returned with your Mercedes-
Benz:
The literature pack/ Handbook (e.g. user manual etc.)
In addition, the hire purchase agreement says: You must return the vehicle together with 
everything originally supplied with the vehicle: V5C log book (if applicable), spare/additional 
keys, transmitter and codes, alarm system, locking wheel nuts, vehicle handbook, complete 
service manual, charging cables (if applicable)
The VRS and finance agreement that was signed by Mr A, both point out that a vehicle 
should be returned with everything that was supplied with it, and specifically the VRS 
highlights the literature pack as an item that should be returned. MBFS advised that Mr A 
was provided with a copy of their VRS, at the start of his agreement and around six months 
prior to his agreement end date. Im satisfied that Mr A would have had a reasonable 
opportunity to review it. So, in consideration of the guidance and terms provided by in the 
VRS, and within the finance agreement, Im satisfied that the literature pack is an item that 
MBFS can charge for if its not returned with the vehicle. 
Its not in dispute that the literature pack wasnt with the car when it was collected. MBFS 
provided us with a copy of the vehicle condition report which was completed on 20 
September 2021. The report recorded the literature pack as missing. However, Mr A 
provided us with a photo of the literature pack, the packaging addressed to MBFS and a 
copy of a notification he received confirming the package had been delivered on 21 
October 2021.
So, although the pack wasnt returned on collection, Mr A posted it to MBFS over a month 
after the inspection was carried out on the car after the collection had taken place. 
Looking at the agreement he took, under the section returning the vehicle it says: 
You must return the vehicle together with everything supplied with the vehicle to us at your 
own expense (in accordance with the vehicle return standards). If you fail to take reasonable 
care of the vehicle you will have to pay our costs of repairing and/or refurbishing the vehicle, 
or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle 
So, considering this, Im persuaded Mr A agreed to return the car in a condition in line with 
the VRS and as such agreed to be charged if this wasnt the case. 
In their final response, MBFS said that missing items are replaced at a cost to them, if not 
present with the car. The BVRLA guidance says: Charges can still be applied at end of 
lease in cases where leasing company decides for commercial reasons not to repair damage 
or to replace missing equipment before the vehicle is sold.I dont think its fair to expect MBFS to have to pay for the literature pack where it wasnt 
returned with the car. However, I think it was reasonable for them to replace it considering it 
had been over a month before it was returned. Ive also no evidence to say that Mr A was in 
communication with MBFS about returning the literature pack before they decided to replace 
it. So, Im satisfied that it was fair and reasonable for MBFS to apply the charge for the 
literature pack. 
Mr A told our investigator that MBFS hasnt returned the literature pack that he sent to them; 
and believes they should be liable for that cost. I acknowledge that Mr A feels strongly about 
this, however my decision focuses on whether it was fair for MBFS to charge Mr A for the 
literature pack, which Ive found that it was. In the circumstances Mr A may decide to contact 
MBFS with regards to the ownership or return of the pack that hed posted to them. 
My final decision
Having thought about everything above along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr As complaint about Mercedes-
Benz Financial Services UK Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman