DRN-2431417
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his home insurer Society of Lloyd's (SOL) because it has only 
paid him approximately half of the cost to repair his home. 
What happened
Mr S had a home insurance policy, arranged via an intermediary. At renewal in 2018 SOL 
was the underwriter for that cover. Later, in December 2018, there was a leak at Mr Ss 
home and he made a claim to SOL. SOL accepted the claim and seemingly had no issues of 
concern. Mr S started drying the property and he replaced his boiler. SOL reimbursed his 
outlay and took over drying the property, including completing strip out work. 
Around the time the strip out work was completed SOL decided it wanted to know more 
about the rebuild value for Mr Ss home. When hed arranged cover initially in 2013 hed said 
it would cost £700,000 to rebuild it (hed completed an on-line calculation to determine this). 
At the point of renewal, this figure had increased with indexing to a sum of £747,000. SOLs 
enquiries determined that it would actually cost more than £1.4 million to rebuild it. It said it 
would settle the claim based on Mr S only having been around 51% insured. Therefore, 
whilst the total cost of repair was estimated to be over £40,000, SOL said it would only be 
liable for around half that figure. And after its previous payments and costs had been 
deducted, that would leave a final claim settlement figure of around £10,000.
Mr S was unhappy, not least because SOLs decision marked an unexpected change 
several months into the repair process. He used the settlement to complete some repairs but 
hes said the home remained uncomfortable to live in. Mr S also noted that SOL had told him 
it couldnt renew his policy and this caused him some difficulty; it was hard to find 
replacement cover with an on-going claim. He complained to this service.
Our investigator felt SOL had acted unfairly. He felt it should make a further payment to Mr S 
to reflect the full repair cost, plus interest on the outstanding amount. He said £250 
compensation should be paid. But he didnt think SOL had done anything wrong regarding 
the renewal.
SOL didnt agree with our investigators findings. Mr S said, regarding the renewal, our 
investigators comments seemed at odds with an explanation SOL had provided during the 
claim/complaint. The complaint was passed to me and I felt, like our investigator, that it 
should be upheld. However, my reasoning was different and I issued a provisional decision 
to explain that and the redress I was suggesting, which included £500 compensation.
SOL didnt offer any reply to my findings. Mr S indicated he had some lingering concerns as 
he felt hed shown he hadnt underinsured his home. He also said that £500 compensation 
seemed low given the value of the claim  it likely wouldnt encourage SOL to act more fairly 
in the future. But he said as my findings were in his favour, hed accept them.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
Dealing with the renewal first. It seems SOLs business arrangements changed, which 
meant it could no longer offer this policy to any of its policyholders, not just Mr S. Whilst this 
was clearly frustrating for Mr S, especially as it came at a time when he had an unresolved 
claim, I cant fault SOL for changes like this occurring which then, naturally, result in a 
change for what it can offer its policyholders. I think it is likely that at least some of the 
difficulty Mr S had in finding replacement cover was due to the outstanding claim. But even if 
the issue that lead to the partial settlement being made hadnt arisen, I dont think the claim 
would likely have been resolved before renewal. Which means that Mr S would always have 
been in the situation of having an unresolved claim when he needed to find alternate cover.
Turning to the partial settlement; SOL provided to this service a copy of the policy wording 
which was in place at renewal in 2018. Whilst this is of interest, and I know Mr S has 
concerns about the fairness of it, the policy wording has little relevance in the situation at 
hand here. That is because when SOL accepted the claim and opted to repair Mr Ss 
property, it entered into a contract to repair. It had already done this before it chose to act on 
the basis of Mr S being underinsured. This service has long held that once a contract to 
repair like this begins, it cant easily be withdrawn from.
I accept that if a consumer acts to frustrate such a contract, then it can be ended. I also 
accept that if new information becomes available which bring into question that contract, or 
the basis for it  that might give good cause for the agreement to be ceased. Here new detail 
was found  but only after the repair contract had already begun, and where SOL had not 
chosen to reserve its rights in respect of liability. 
Completing enquiries like this is something which is more normally done before repairs begin 
 before the insurer accepts the claim and enters into a contract for repair. In some 
instances an insurer will want to act quickly to prevent further damage occurring  but Mr S 
had already taken that action here. And even where that is the case, an insurer can explain it 
is taking action whilst reserving its rights, until such a time as it has had chance to 
investigate and satisfy itself as to policy liability. SOL didnt do here. 
SOL had visited Mr Ss home  which I understand was finished to a high-standard. And it 
knew that the area of the property, as well as its type would likely have an impact on the 
value of the reinstatement. But its file records  Underinsurance: No.
Ive seen emails from the loss adjuster to Mr S in February and March 2019 which advise 
him in respect of the drying regime, which arrange for cause of damage reports to be 
undertaken, which confirm the drying and strip out works have been authorised as 
recommended, which make arrangements for the schedule of repairs to be undertaken and 
which confirm SOL is preparing to put the works out for tender. In none of those emails does 
the loss adjuster indicate that this is being done whilst rights are reserved. 
SOL made claim settlement payments to Mr S for things like his drying costs and the cost he 
incurred to replace the boiler. SOL also installed its own drying equipment, tested for 
asbestos (which was negative) and completed strip-out works. All before it decided Mr S had 
underinsured his home, but whilst it was undertaking enquiries in that respect without having 
reserved its rights or informed Mr S that it was making enquiries the results of which might 
affect the progression of the claim.
It isnt fair for SOL to act in such a way as to have made Mr S think all was well, to enter into 
a contract for repair, and to complete work to the property, to only then decide underinsurance is an issue it wants to act on by only partially settling the claim. SOL, in my 
view, acted unfairly and Mr S lost out as a result.
At this point I could require SOL to go back and finish what it started  but Im not sure if 
Mr S would want that. I know he had finished the property to a very high standard before the 
claim and he had been in the process of getting estimates from his own contractors prior to 
SOL settling as it did. Im also aware that some of the insured work has been done since, 
presumably spending some, if not all of the settlement SOL had paid. But it could be 
beneficial for both if SOL does take back control of the work. So Im going to say that, if Mr S 
wants it to, SOL should complete the reinstatement work outstanding at the property, or if he 
doesnt want SOL involved in the repairs, pay him the amount outstanding (between what it 
has paid him already and the total cost of repairs).  
I know the situation surrounding the claim settlement was frustrating for Mr S  coming 
seemingly out of the blue, a long time after SOL had accepted the claim and acted to 
discharge its policy liability by undertaking repairs. Further he and his family had to live in the 
disrupted home for longer than they would have if SOL had completed the reinstatement or 
settled the claim in full. Im satisfied that compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
Ive noted Mr Ss lingering concerns but they dont change my view about the findings 
I made. Im satisfied SOL acted unfairly, for the reasons provisionally explained. Im also 
satisfied that £500 compensation is fair and reasonable, although it may help Mr S to know 
that my awards arent designed to be punitive or to make insurers change the way they act. 
SOL hasnt objected to my findings and Mr S has accepted them. Therefore, my provisional 
findings are now the findings of this, my final decision. 
Putting things right
Im satisfied that SOL is liable for the full cost of repairs at Mr Ss home, that it cant fairly 
settle the claim in part only. So it should, at Mr Ss option, complete any outstanding insured 
repairs at the property, or make a further payment to him so the work can be done based on 
the total cost previously determined, less what has already been paid. 
Im also satisfied that SOLs failures in respect of this claim caused Mr S distress and 
inconvenience. I think it should pay him £500 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Society of Lloyd's to provide redress as set out in Putting 
things right above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman