DRN-3945973
The complaint
Mr D complains that PayrNet Limited trading as Pockit blocked and later closed his account. 
They returned funds to original source rather than to him. D would like the money returned 
and compensation.
What happened
The facts which led to Mr D bringing his complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here.
In summary Pockit blocked his account during a review. They decided to close Mr Ds 
account and returned £150 payment back to source.
Mr D says this payment was for an item he had purchased for a friend, and he would like the 
money back and compensation.
Our investigator concluded Pockit were entitled to review and bock the account and ask Mr 
D for information about the funds in the account. He thought Mr D had provided sufficient 
information to Pockit and they should refund the money.
Pockit disagreed and asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
In my provisional decision I said:
Account bock and closure
The investigator has said that financial businesses have important obligations to verify funds 
in their customers accounts.
UK legislation places extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial 
institutions must establish the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the 
origin of funds, and there may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and 
existing relationships. These obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Pockit 
were complying with these obligations when they reviewed Mr Ds account.
In Mr Ds case Im satisfied Pockit were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations 
when they blocked the account and asked for the proof of entitlement to the funds Mr D 
received into the account. So, I dont think they did anything wrong here.
I can see from the chat correspondence between Mr D and Pockit that Mr D was frustrated 
with being asked questions. Mr D provided some information that Pockit requested. Pockit 
then asked Mr D for evidence of the money he had received and the phone he had 
purchased. Mr D didnt provide Pockit with the information they needed. Mr D obviously got 
frustrated with the questions because he said on multiple occasions, hes shocked Pockit 
can block his account without any personal contact with him. Although Mr D provided Pockit 
with some information, Pockit requested further information and referred Mr D to section 7.6 
of their terms and conditions.
Pockit decided to close Mr Ds account in September 2021 and return the funds to source.
I appreciate Mr D was frustrated about the closure. Its generally for financial institutions to 
decide whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a good reason to do so, this service wont usually say 
that a financial institution must keep a customer or require it to compensate a customer who 
has had their account closed. And having looked at the terms and conditions I can see that 
Pockit acted fairly in closing Mr Ds account.
Funds returned to source.
Mr D was upset that he couldnt get access to the funds in his account. When Pockit closed 
the account they sent £10.71 back to Mr D and £150 back to another source.
I can see that the terms allow Pockit to return funds to source. But Ive still considered if 
Pockit acted fairly when they returned £150 back to source. Ive already said that Pockit are 
entitled to ask Mr D for proof of where the funds came from. Mr D didnt provide sufficient 
information to Pockit to satisfy them.
Although the investigator thought Pockit shouldnt have requested further information 
especially as they received no claim against the funds, I disagree. I think Pockit were entitled 
to ask for further information. As a service we cant comment on a financial business 
processes and in this case, Im satisfied it was part of Pockits processes to request further 
information from Mr D.
As they werent satisfied with the answers Pockit returned the funds to source. Mr D has told 
us and Pockit that he received £150 into his Pockit account from a friend who wanted him to 
purchase an item for him. When Pockit decided to return the funds to source they returned 
these to Mr Ds friend.
For the reasons Ive mentioned I dont think Pockit acted unfairly when they returned the 
funds to source. But even if Pockit shouldnt have done so, the funds were returned to Mr 
Ds friend. So, Im sure Mr D would have been able to get these back from his friend  so I 
dont think Mr D has suffered a loss here, even if Pockit made an error.
In summary as I dont think Pockit have made an error in closing the account or returning the 
funds to source I dont think Mr D is entitled to compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision.
Mr D hasnt made any comments to my provisional decision. Pockit have also not made any 
comments to my provisional decision.
Although Mr D and Pockit have not provided any further comments, I have nevertheless re-
considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have seen nothing to change my mind and so my 
provisional findings stand.My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman