DRN-3835321
The complaint
Mr M complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) gave him 
incorrect information about annual fees on his AESEL card. He would like the £250 fee 
refunded.
What happened
Mr M says he has two AESEL cards. When he got a letter telling him that he would incur an 
annual fee for one of them he called AESEL as the wording wasnt clear as to when the fee 
would apply. He says in this phone call he was assured the fee wouldnt apply until the 
anniversary date of the card which would have been August 2022. 
He says on this basis he kept the card, but he realised in January 2022 that he had been 
charged the annual fee in September 2021. He says had he known this he wouldnt have 
kept the card.
AESEL accepted that, when it spoke to Mr M, it wrongly informed him the date the annual 
fee would be charged. It said it couldnt refund the annual fee. But it did pay Mr M £100 
compensation.. 
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded:-
The letter advising Mr M of the introduction of an annual fee wasnt entirely clear 
about  when this would apply so I could understand why Mr M queried this with 
AESEL. Having done so there was no dispute that AESEL told Mr M he wouldnt be 
charged the annual fee until the anniversary date of his card  August 2022. I have 
seen the call notes that confirm this,  and AESEL accepted that and paid Mr M £100 
for giving him wrong information which I thought was fair.
AESEL told us that  there was no direct debit on the account so Mr M must have paid 
the annual fee manually and therefore been aware of it, however it didnt  evidence 
this.
Mr M said he  only realised he had paid the fee in January 2022. I wasnt sure  why 
that was as he hadnt  said he had a problem accessing his account or statements 
which would have shown he paid the fee in 2021. I was surprised he didnt check that 
the payment hadnt gone through in September 2021. But I appreciated he might  
have felt the reassurance he got from the phone call left him thinking he didnt need 
to do so.
Mr M put in a complaint to AESEL in January 2022 and received a final response 
letter dated 2 February 2022. So, at that point when he knew the annual fee had 
been correctly applied, he could have chosen to cancel his card and get a partial 
refund of the annual fee but didnt. Had he done so I thought the partial refund plus 
the compensation AESEL paid would have covered most, if not all, of the annual fee  
paid.
I appreciated  Mr M might have decided he would keep the card pending the 
outcome of his complaint to us, in the expectation that, if his complaint was upheld, 
he would get the refund of his annual fee. But there was, of course, no guarantee 
that would be the outcome of his complaint to us.
However, Mr M  definitively knew by January 2022 that he had been wrongly advised 
about the start date for the introduction of the annual fee. Additionally, he received 
our investigators view in May 2022 which recommended either cancelling the card 
and getting a refund or keeping it and not getting a refund.
As I understood it Mr M didnt cancel the card until August 2022 by which time he had 
had use of it for most, if not all the full year. And we know Mr M  must have continued 
to use the card since in response to our investigators view he asked to keep the card 
for the full year due to the benefits and offers on the card which our investigator didnt 
agree to. So, Mr M  continued to use the card despite knowing an annual fee applied.
Taking all the information I had into account I felt the written communication from 
AESEL about the introduction of the annual fee could have been clearer. And we 
know it wrongly advised Mr M of the start date of the annual fee. But I didnt think it 
was reasonable to ask AESEL to refund the annual fee. Mr M  had various 
opportunities to cancel the fee and get a partial refund of the fee but didnt do so. As 
Mr M had the benefit of the card for most, if not all, of the year he paid the annual fee 
for, and taking into account the £100 compensation AESEL paid, I didnt think it was  
reasonable to expect AESEL to either refund the £250 fee or to pay any additional 
compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AESEL hasnt made any comments in response to my provisional decision for me to 
consider.
Mr M made the point that he feels  poor communication from AESEL led to the charge being 
wrongly applied. He doesnt feel his behaviour and tardiness by which I take it he means 
the time it took him to realise the issue, and to then cancel the card, is the problem.
I do appreciate Mr Ms points but having carefully considered  what he has said I dont feel 
he has given me any new information that leads to reach a different conclusion to that of my 
provisional decision.
I am still of the view that AESELs communication could have been clearer but feel the £100 
compensation it paid reflected this. I am also still of the view that had Mr M noticed the 
charge sooner and / or cancelled the card as soon as he was told he fee did apply from 2021  
the partial refund he would have received on the fee for cancelling the card along with the 
compensation AESEL paid would have covered most, if not all , of the annual fee. Mr M had 
use of the card for nearly a full year, so I think Its only fair the fee was applied.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Bridget MakinsOmbudsman