DRN-3949488
The complaint
Mrs R says ReAssure Limited was responsible for delaying the payment of benefits from one 
of her personal pension plans. This meant that instead of taking funds in the 2020/21 tax-
year as shed planned, she received the monies in 2021/22 thereby incurring an additional 
tax liability.
What happened
Mrs Rs circumstances meant that she needed to secure a suitable home for her family. She 
applied for the mortgage but didnt have the funds she required. So, she decided to cash in 
three personal pension policies to raise the funds. Two of these were with ReAssure. Her 
plan had been to take the benefits from one of these in 2020/21 and from the other in 
2021/22. This would enable her to minimise her tax liability.
Unfortunately Mrs R experienced delays in getting funds from the pension shed hoped 
would be available in 2020/21. This meant the transaction didnt happen until a few days into 
the following tax-year. 
ReAssure asserted the delay had been caused by Mrs R completing the relevant forms with 
an incorrect national insurance number. Mrs R said the real problem had been caused by it 
incorrectly assigning a Pension Sharing Order (PSO) to the plan in question.
An Investigator considered Mrs Rs case in May 2022 and upheld it. She found the mistake 
made by Mrs R in getting her national insurance number wrong shouldnt have pushed the 
payment from her personal pension into the following tax-year. She thought ReAssure 
shouldve been aware of problems it was having in dealing with her requests and the 
urgency of the situation. Further the Investigator was satisfied that ReAssure had attached a 
PSO to her plan and that this had been a more material cause of delaying the transaction.
ReAssure initially accepted the Investigators view in June 2022. However, by August 2022 it 
retracted what it said and restated its original arguments that it hadnt been responsible for 
the delay. The Investigator reconsidered its arguments and again rejected them. By 
November ReAssure had again accepted the Investigators view and said it would assess 
the increased tax liability it had caused upon production of the evidence from Mrs R.
Both parties are in broad agreement about what happened and the potential impact of 
ReAssures failings on Mrs R. But they havent been able to bring matters to a close and so 
her complaint has come to me to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by ReAssure for Mrs R. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
The Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like ReAssure. As 
such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Mrs Rs complaint.
Its important context that Mrs Rs situation appears to have been caught up with problems 
arising from the transfer of the traditional insurance-based savings, pensions, life and with 
profits policies of Legal & General (L&G) to ReAssure. The proposal had been underway for 
a few years before being finalised in the High Court with an effective legal transfer date of 7 
September 2020. 
So, Im mindful of the operational challenges ReAssure faced when taking on a significant 
element of L&Gs book. But these are matters between the businesses concerned. The 
agreement reached wouldve required due diligence, one aspect of which wouldve been to 
ensure no harm to customers. Its not something Mrs R shouldve been impacted by or 
worried about.
Ive reviewed the evidence in this case afresh and agree with the Investigators findings and 
conclusions. As do both parties. 
So all that remains is to set out what would be fair redress in this case and the approach to 
take so that matters can be brought to a conclusion, which is obviously in both parties 
interests.
Putting things right
ReAssure Limited has already agreed to pay Mrs R an award for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her. Its increased the amount during her complaint journey. I think 
the £550 its offering is fair.
ReAssure Limited also needs to compensate Mrs R for any additional tax she has incurred 
as a result of the payment from her pension reference AP3******0S being made in the 
2021/22 tax-year instead of the 2020/21 tax-year.
In carrying out this calculation it will need to consider the correct application of Mrs Rs 
entitlements, for example to any tax-free cash she was due, the allowances applicable, for 
example in relation to her tax band, and the relevant income, including any benefits she took from her pensions. It will need to compare the effect of such had it made the correct 
payment in 2020/21 with what actually happened in 2021/22.
I understand Mrs R has had difficulty liaising with HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) and 
accessing HM Government web-sites to obtain the relevant information she wanted to share 
with ReAssure. However, this isnt something ReAssure can help with. The onus is on her to 
provide evidence of the increased tax shes actually paid over the relevant tax-years as a 
result of what ReAssure got wrong. 
But these records should be easily available, the relevant tax-years wouldve been 
reconciled and closed some time ago. I understand Mrs R is in contact with HMRC to seek 
written confirmation of these matters.
As soon as Mrs R has provided the relevant evidence to ReAssure it will need to pay her any 
compensation due within 28 days of receipt of such. If it fails to do so it will then need to add 
8% simple annual interest to any loss it identifies through the calculations.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint. I require ReAssure Limited to 
put things right in the way Ive provided for.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman