DRN-2002043
 
The complaint
Mrs E complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined her travel insurance 
claim.
What happened
Mrs E booked herself a short holiday for August 2019. However she had to cancel it to care 
for her husband after he was unexpectedly discharged from hospital. She submitted a claim 
for the costs of the trip under her travel insurance policy, underwritten by UKI. 
UKI declined her claim on the basis that Mrs Es husband was already in hospital when she 
booked the trip. It said its policy explains that if an immediate family member is a hospital 
inpatient within the 12 months prior to booking your trip, your claim will not be covered.
Mrs E didnt feel this was fair so she brought a complaint to our service. Shes explained that 
she was advised to have a short break before her husband came home from hospital, and 
that he was discharged earlier than shed been led to expect. 
Our investigator appreciated that Mrs E hadnt known her husband would be discharged 
from hospital so soon but felt that UKI had acted fairly when it declined Mrs Es claim.
Mrs E didnt agree with this view and asked for her complaint to be passed to ombudsman. 
So its now for me to review this case and make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs E booked herself a short break away, due to take place between 12 August 2019 and 16 
August 2019. Its clear she thought that her husband would be in hospital receiving treatment 
during this time. And shes provided us with evidence from both the treating hospital and a 
social worker which confirms that he was unexpectedly discharged earlier than anticipated, 
with very little notice. As his sole carer Mrs E was advised to cancel her trip to look after him. 
And as a result has been left out of pocket through no direct fault of her own.
UKI says its policy doesnt provide cover for cancellation in this situation. But Mrs E feels this 
is unfair. Shes argued that the trip was booked solely for herself, not herself and her 
husband. And says its not clear that she wouldve been expected to discuss her husbands 
medical condition with UKI prior to booking her trip. 
Ive looked carefully UKIs policy wording. Section A states that it will not pay for any 
cancellation claims resulting from;
 A medical condition of a travelling companion, or (whether travelling or not) either a 
member of your family or a business partner which has resulted in that person being a 
hospital inpatient or being put list for hospital treatment in the 12 months before the start of 
this insurance or you booking the journey, whichever is later.
Mrs Es husband was in hospital as a result of his medical condition between 20 April 2019 
and 2 August 2019, during which time Mrs E booked her trip. And Mrs E cancelled her trip 
for reasons related to his medical condition  to care for him on his return home. 
So whilst I do empathise with Mrs E here, I havent found that UKI acted unfairly or 
unreasonably when it declined her claim. Like our investigator, I dont think that the 
circumstances surrounding the cancellation are covered by the policy.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint for the reasons outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Jenette Lynch
Ombudsman