DRN-1955680
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund a transaction he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr S contacted TSB when he noticed that a card payment of £93.99 had been taken from 
his TSB bank account on 16 January 2019. This was made to a well-known online company 
providing apps. Mr S said he didnt authorise this payment and it was fraudulent. He was 
unhappy that TSB first said he should contact the merchant and then that it wouldnt be 
refunding this money as this was a payment for an in app purchase.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that TSB had 
shown that the card details for Mr S were used to make the purchase. Hed used this retailer 
before and registered his card information. She quoted from the relevant terms and 
conditions which stated that the company did provide free trials. Here Mr S had downloaded 
an app on 14 January 2019. The terms and conditions stated that:
Some lock contents is only for our paid subscriber. To unlock all these contents you have to
subscribe. You will have 3 days to try for free. The trial is completely free and during this,
you can cancel anytime.
If you choose to pay, the payment will be charged to your [] account at confirmation of
purchase. The subscriptions will auto renew within the 24-hour period prior to the
subscription expiration date
Mr S hadnt shown he had cancelled his subscription. The renewal had been taken in line 
with the terms and conditions. When he went to TSB it had told him to contact the company, 
given he had a relationship with it. She thought that had been appropriate and he would 
have needed to cancel his existing subscription with the company.
Mr S who is represented in this complaint didnt agree. He said that as he had asked TSB to 
cancel this subscription it had a duty to do so. But it had ignored him and told him to contact 
the company. Just because he had used the company before didnt mean he had given 
permission for it to take a payment now and he thought he had cancellation rights. And in 
any event, he had been scammed and the app was faulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if a payment wasnt 
authorised Mr S wouldnt generally be responsible for it.
Mr S had made a past payment to this company in 2018. And on 14 January 2019 a test 
transaction for £0 was applied to the card and then on 16 January 2019 the charge of 
£93.99.
Mr S said he didnt enter his card details again in January 2019, but Im satisfied that the 
company had the correct information. And it made a test transaction on 14 January 2019 
when he downloaded the app and then used the same details to take the payment. I dont 
think it likely hed have been able to download the app unless the company had viable 
payment details. I also note that TSB said it had verified that the correct details were used 
when it looked at the fraud claim. So, Im satisfied that the payment was authenticated.
I need to consider then whether he consented to the payment. I think that in downloading the 
app for a free trial he was fairly bound by the terms and conditions of the company. And he 
hasnt shown that he cancelled the subscription before the payment was made. He 
contacted TSB after he noticed the payment  so I dont see it had the ability to cancel an 
existing payment then. Its notes indicated that it cancelled any future recurring payments to 
this company at that time.
Mr S had to visit a branch partly as he wanted his representative to help him. And also, when 
hed reported fraud on his card over the phone it had been blocked. The branch staff, finding 
that he had been using services from the company, told him to contact it first. He said he had 
no success, so TSB then looked at a fraud claim and initially recredited the money to his 
account on 18 March 2019. Its shown that it had looked at the nature of this payment and 
considered that the company had grounds to charge Mr S. So, in the absence of evidence of 
fraud it declined his claim and the money was debited back to his account.
Im satisfied that Mr S consented to this payment for a service that hed downloaded. And if 
he is now saying that the app doesnt work, this issue and any request to cancel an existing 
subscription is something hed need to take up with the company. Ive not seen any evidence 
about that and that wasnt the basis on which he disputed this transaction. TSB looked into 
his fraud claim and I am not persuaded that Mr S didnt authorise this payment.
So, Im afraid I dont think TSB has made any mistake in holding Mr S responsible for this 
payment. And I dont have a reasonable basis to require it to do anything else.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman