DRN-1294604
The complaint
After an accident, Mr B made a claim on his commercial motor insurance policy with Gefion 
Insurance A/S. He says it wrongly recorded the accident as a fault claim against him.  
What happened
Mr B told Gefion in July 2018 that his car had been damaged by another drivers actions. He 
hoped the other drivers insurer would cover the claim, but it emerged that the other driver 
was uninsured. Mr Bs car was later written-off and Gefion paid out £5,259 on his policy. As 
it couldnt recover its losses, it recorded a fault claim on Mr Bs record, even though it 
accepted he didnt cause the accident. Mr B also lost his one-year no claims discount 
(NCD). His premium rose at renewal, so he sought cover from another insurer. The new 
premium was still higher than Mr B thought was fair.
One of our investigators considered Mr Bs complaint. He thought Gefion had acted 
reasonably. Mr B said he wasnt happy that hed been penalised for an accident that wasnt 
his fault. He said hed had three years NCD before the accident, but the investigator said 
there was nothing to show that was the case. As there was no agreement, the complaint was 
passed to me for review.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If an insurer cant recover the sum it has paid out following an accident, its standard industry 
practice for the insurer to record the claim as a fault claim against a consumers policy. The 
only option would have been for Mr B not to make use of his policy. But then hed have had 
to pay the substantial sum he owed on the car to the finance company.
Numerous factors are considered when a renewal premium is calculated. If theres a fault 
claim against a policy, the premium will rise partly because of that. In this case, Mr Bs NCD 
wasnt protected, so he lost it. Gefion has confirmed that Mr Bs zero NCD had a substantial 
effect on the renewal premium offered in 2019. 
Theres nothing to show that Mr B had earned three years NCD prior to the accident. The 
details in the policys Statement of Fact provided to Mr B when he took out the policy in 2018 
were based on the information provided by him. He was asked to check whether the details 
set out were correct and to let Gefion know if they werent. The document clearly states that 
Mr B only had one years NCD, from a previous insurer. 
It seems that as Mr B wasnt happy with the premium charged by Pukka, he sought 
insurance elsewhere. Unfortunately, other insurers will also have taken his claims history 
and lack of NCD into account when offering him cover. 
I know Mr B will be disappointed with my decision. I think its understandable that he feels so 
strongly about uninsured drivers causing damage and getting away with it, whilst insured 
drivers like Mr B pay the price for their actions. But if an uninsured driver can be identified 
and traced, the police are likely to act, as its a criminal offence to drive without insurance. 
So the driver who damaged Mr Bs car and drove off may be held to account at some point. 
As far as the insurance claim is concerned, although it may well seem unfair to Mr B that 
hes lost out financially, in my opinion, Gefion didnt act unreasonably in the way it dealt it.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman