DRN-2216760
The complaint
Mr D has complained that ReAssure Limited mis-sold him a mortgage payment insurance 
policy.
What happened
In 2000, after meeting with an adviser from ReAssure, Mr D agreed to take out a mortgage 
payment insurance policy alongside a mortgage which he was taking out at the same time.
In 2004, Mr D says he redeemed the mortgage.
In 2012, Mr D cancelled the mortgage payment insurance policy.
In 2019, Mr D complained to ReAssure that the policy had been mis-sold. He said he hadnt 
wanted or needed the policy and had been led to believe it was an ISA. He wanted a full 
refund of premiums.
ReAssure didnt uphold his complaint. It explained that the policy provided a replacement 
income if Mr D had been unable to work in the long-term due to illness or injury. It was 
satisfied that the policy had been suitable for Mr D and that hed received adequate 
information about it at the time. It said that the policy would have provided cover against any 
mortgage, not just the original mortgage, and in any case it had been Mr Ds responsibility to 
advise it of any change to his financial situation. However, it offered to consider the matter 
further if Mr D were able to show that his property had become mortgage free at some point 
before the policy lapsed in 2012.
Mr D was unhappy at ReAssures response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He considered that 
the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators findings. He maintained that hed had no idea this was 
an insurance policy and said he had no need for the policy because he had been entitled to 
twelve months sickness pay through his employer. He said he hadnt had a mortgage since 
2004 and it was only in 2012 when he contacted ReAssure that he found out it wasnt in fact 
an ISA which was why he had then cancelled the policy.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence relating to the time of sale is not as complete as it might be. However, I dont 
find that surprising given that Mr D made his complaint nineteen years after the event and 
seven years after hed cancelled the policy.
The evidence which is available shows that, in 2000, Mr D was taking out an interest-only 
mortgage. He met with ReAssures adviser to discuss the mortgage and what protection he 
would need for that mortgage. The adviser carried out a fact find. Contrary to what Mr D 
says now, he told the adviser he was entitled to three months sickness pay from his 
employer.
The adviser recommended that, among other products such as an ISA and life assurance 
cover, Mr D should take out a mortgage payment insurance policy. This would pay benefit to 
Mr D in the event he was unable to work due to illness or injury, thereby enabling him to 
continue making his mortgage payments. These benefit payments could continue, if 
necessary, for the full term of the mortgage. The monthly premium of £14.49 was collected 
separately from any other payments Mr D was making in respect of his mortgage and 
associated products.
I consider the mortgage payment insurance policy was a suitable recommendation. Mr D 
was about to take on a significant, long-term financial commitment. He didnt appear to have 
any other means of making his mortgage payments in the event that he was medically 
unable to work in the long-term. The adviser recommended that the policy should start 
paying benefit after a deferred period of thirteen weeks, which complemented Mr Ds 
reported sickness pay from his employer.
I note that Mr D has sometimes referred to this policy as a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. Let me confirm that this is not a PPI policy. PPI policies offer protection for a 
short term (usually twelve months) and are linked to a specific credit agreement. The 
mortgage payment insurance policy provided long-term protection and the benefit would be 
paid directly to Mr D for him to use as he wished. It might be that Mr Ds entitlement to 
benefit, and the level of that benefit, was dependent on him having a mortgage but I cant 
confirm this because I havent seen a copy of the policy document. Nonetheless, this doesnt 
alter my opinion that this was a suitable recommendation to Mr D at the time.
Mr D accepted the advisers recommendations and completed a separate application for the 
mortgage payment insurance policy. ReAssure says he would have then been sent policy 
documents confirming the premium, the cover provided and how to cancel the policy. 
Although evidence to this effect is no longer available, I consider it likely that this is what 
happened.
In view of the above, I see no reason to conclude that the policy was mis-sold. I consider 
that the adviser made a suitable recommendation and Mr D made an informed decision to 
accept that recommendation.
Mr D says that the policy subsequently became useless to him because he redeemed the 
mortgage. ReAssure says the policy was able to be used against any mortgage. I cant 
comment on whether Mr D needed to have a mortgage to receive benefit under the policy 
because I havent seen the policy document. However, I dont consider that ReAssure 
should necessarily be held at fault if Mr D retained the policy even after it was of no use to 
him. It was up to Mr D to keep track of the insurance policies he held and to decide whether 
he still needed them as his circumstances changed; I dont consider that ReAssure should 
have been expected to do this on his behalf. Mr D says ReAssure was aware that in 2006 he 
surrendered the ISA but, as ReAssure has explained to him, this didnt necessarily mean he 
no longer had a mortgage.
However, we generally take the view that an insurer should not retain premiums when it can 
be shown it was no longer insuring a risk. And if it were the case that Mr D could not have 
received benefit from the policy after a certain point, then he may be able to ask ReAssure for an appropriate refund of premiums. But the onus is on Mr D to demonstrate that this was 
the case. And ReAssure has already invited him to provide evidence to show he didnt have 
any mortgage so that it can give his case further consideration. Im satisfied that this is a 
reasonable position for ReAssure to take.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020. 
David Poley
Ombudsman