DRN-3257567
The complaint
Mrs G complains that AvantCredit of UK, LLC provided her with a loan she couldnt afford to 
repay.
What happened
AvantCredit provided Mrs G with a loan on 3 April 2016. It was for £2,600, repayable at the 
monthly rate of just under £147. The loan was to be repaid over 36 months.
Mrs G paid the instalments until July 2016, then paid instalments of half the sums due until 
December 2016. She paid three full instalments until March 2017, then paid instalments of 
around £46 until September 2017. She then made nominal monthly payments of £1 until 
September 2019, after which time she made some full payments and some lower payments. 
She made her complaint to us in January 2021. She said the loan was unaffordable to her at 
the time.
AvantCredit took into account the information Mrs G provided in her loan application, and 
independently verified her income. It also carried out a credit check and an affordability 
assessment. It said the purpose of the loan was debt consolidation.
Our adjudicator asked AvantCredit to provide details of the loan accounts and credit cards 
Mrs G was repaying, but it explained it didnt have those details.
Our adjudicator said that, as AvantCredit had been unable to satisfy itself that Mrs G had 
paid off the various debts, she had to assume that this hadnt happened. In which case 
Mrs Gs credit commitments against income would have been very high (over 50%) and the 
loan couldnt be said to be affordable based on the checks AvantCredit had carried out. She 
proposed that AvantCredit repay all interest and other charges on the loan.
AvantCredit disagreed that Mrs G wouldnt have used the loan to consolidate her existing 
debts. It identified three debts she could have repaid, partly or in full, which would then have 
reduced her credit commitments substantially.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs G would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs G would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Gs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs G undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs G. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
This loan was for 36 months and the instalments required a substantial commitment from 
Mrs G. So I think AvantCredit needed to carry out a thorough assessment. It didnt obtain 
bank statements. The rules dont require it to, but its checks showed that Mrs A was liable 
for a very high amount of credit commitments, of about 41% of her income. Even if 
AvantCredit assumed that she was going to pay off some of her credit card debts (at the 
time they were around £4,400) it only allowed a payment of £32 per month off the remaining 
credit card debt. Additionally she still had another loan repayment of £220 per month which 
she wouldnt have been able to repay from the AvantCredit loan.
More importantly AvantCredit paid the capital sum of the loan directly to Mrs G without 
satisfying itself that she was paying off some of her debts. The instalment for the new loan 
would have brought those monthly commitments to over 50% of her income. I think it likely 
that that would have been unmanageable. Together with the information it obtained from its 
credit checks and its affordability assessment, I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending decision. And its perhaps not surprising that Mrs G soon got into difficulties over repaying 
the loan.
  
Putting things right
Its fair and reasonable that Mrs G should pay the capital sum of the loan back, as she has 
had the benefit of it. But I think AvantCredit should repay all interest and charges from the 
amount paid under the loan agreement.
AvantCredit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mrs G as payments towards the capital amount of £2,600.
If Mrs G has paid more than the capital, refund any overpayments to her with 8%* simple 
interest from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mrs Gs credit file.
If theres still an outstanding balance, AvantCredit should come to a reasonable repayment 
plan with Mrs G.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AvantCredit of UK, LLC to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman