DRN-1196245
 
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs D says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs D applied for a credit card with Lloyds in 1998. At the same time, PPI was added to her 
account that was designed to help protect her repayments if she couldnt work due to 
disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mrs D didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The credit card application form Mrs D signed indicates to me that she was given the 
option to take the PPI and decided to do so. Ive no reason to think it was added 
without her knowledge. I also think it was clear from the wording of the form that a 
tick in the relevant box meant PPI would be added and that it wasnt just a request for 
more information about the cover.  
Assuming Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs D, it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example, I cant see that shed have been affected by any of the 
exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover. And, despite her entitlement to enhanced 
sick pay for a time and redundancy pay, she seems to have had a need for the cover 
which would have paid out on top of that pay.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But it seems she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted 
this type of cover. And it looks as though it would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong despite her other means. It also looks like shes have found it 
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover. 
 
Overall, I dont think Mrs Ds lost out because of how Lloyds sold her the PPI.
My final decisionFor the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman