DRN-4049061
The complaint
Mr C complains that Zopa Bank Limited cant remove a linked bank account and he didnt 
want his funds in a notice account.
What happened
Mr C says he cant remove a linked bank account from his Zopa account. He says his funds 
had been moved into a notice account, so when he tried to withdraw the funds, he was 
unable to do so, even though he didnt activate the savings pot. He says that Zopa changed 
the name of a pot on an old statement whereas he had changed the name recently. He said 
they do not email him when changing a pot name. Mr C made a complaint to Zopa. 
Zopa offered Mr C £25 as a gesture of goodwill as they said their services could be 
improved. Zopa said at present, the functionality to remove a linked bank account on the 
savings account was not available. They said Mr C had requested a seven day boost. Zopa 
said there is no requirement for them to issue emails when changing a pot name. Zopa said 
in relation to the name of a pot on an old statement, when a statement is first downloaded it 
will pull through the name of the pots at that time. They said if he was to download/view that 
same monthly statement again after changing the name of his pot, the name would remain 
the same as what it appeared on the statement when he first downloaded it. Mr C brought 
his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Cs complaint. She said she had not seen any evidence to 
suggest he didnt boost his pot. She said Mr C was aware of how boosts work, and he had 
previously used this feature, so on balance she felt its more likely than not, hed boosted this 
pot. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr C that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their systems, such as telling them they must remove a linked account when a customer 
asks for it, changing the names on pots after a statement has first been downloaded or to 
email customers when a pot name changes. It would be the role of the regulator  the 
Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct Zopa to make changes to their 
policies and procedures, if necessary. 
I asked Zopa if they had an audit of the boosted pot to evidence if Mr C had boosted the pot. 
They have provided me with an audit of this pot. I can see that he logged in on 26 January 
2023 at 2:53pm. At 2:55pm he pressed to boost his pot. This is reflected on a transaction 
screenshot Zopa has sent us which shows on 26 January 2023 he transferred £7,500 to a 
seven day notice pot. So I am satisfied that Mr C had instructed this account to be boosted 
to a seven day notice pot. Ive looked at what the terms and conditions of the account says 
regarding access to pots which are boosted.
The terms say If you want to access funds in a Boosted Pot, you can let us know at any 
time in the Zopa app. Your savings will only be accessible after the notice period you 
selected has expired. For example, if you selected a 30 day Boosted Pot, you will only be 
able to access the funds 30 days from when you let us know. So here, as the evidence 
shows Mr C boosted a pot to a seven day notice pot, he would only be able to access the 
funds seven days after he let Zopa know he wanted access to the funds. I have seen no 
evidence that they moved Mr Cs funds/boosted the pot without his authority. So Im not 
persuaded Zopa did anything wrong here.
Zopa have offered Mr C £25 as a goodwill gesture as they acknowledge their services can 
be improved. So if Zopa havent paid this to Mr C yet, they should pay him this. But I dont 
require Zopa to do anything further.
My final decision
Zopa Bank Limited has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Zopa Bank Limited should pay Mr C £25 (but only if they havent 
already paid him this). But I wont be requiring them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman