DRN-3187611
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold them a term 
assurance policy that they say they did not want or need.  
What happened
In September 2002, Mr and Mrs T took out mortgage lending with RBS. Alongside that 
lending, they took out a life assurance policy, with a sum assured matching the mortgage 
borrowing of £123,000 and for the same 22 year term. 
Mr T also had an existing mortgage with RBS from 1997, at which time he had previously 
taken out accompanying term assurance.    
In 2019, Mr T complained to RBS on his and Mrs Ts behalf about this policy and several 
others. He explained that they did not require the cover as they sufficient life cover through 
his employment. Further, he was unhappy that the policy was assigned to RBS, and not to 
each other as beneficiaries in the event of a valid claim. He noted to RBS that he felt he had 
been mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  with this policy being one of four 
policies he was complaining about; these were two from 1997 and two from 2002.  
Many months of correspondence ensured between the parties as RBS could not initially 
identify the policy. When it was located, RBS confirmed Mr and Mrs Ts policy was not PPI, 
but term assurance. Mr T said he and Mrs T disagreed, and that RBS had ignored the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys definition of PPI which he felt was a long term protection 
contract.   
RBS rejected the complaint in September 2020. It said the complaint had been made outside 
of the time limits applying to this service. Specifically, if Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with the 
policy being required, they could have raised their concerns within six years of the sale. 
Mr T therefore brought their complaint to this service, supplying detailed arguments as to 
why he believed it ought to be considered. He said the earliest point they could have 
furthered the complaint was January 2020  the date when RBS agreed a policy had 
existed. To fail to review the complaint now was, in his view, RBS relying on a technicality. 
He also felt it should be answered as to whether the policy he and Mrs T were sold was PPI 
 as defined by the FCA. 
The complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators, who agreed with RBS that it had 
been made too late. So, Mr and Mrs T asked for the complaint to be sent to an ombudsman.  
An ombudsman issued a decision. In that decision he confirmed the type of policy Mr and 
Mrs T were sold was term assurance, not PPI. He reached a different view on the time limits, 
finding that he considered Mr and Mrs T to have complained within three years of the cause 
for complaint; that was not at the time of the sale, but when they complained in 2020.  
Another investigator went on to consider the merits of the complaint. However, he did not 
think the complaint should succeed. He concluded that RBS had reasonably required the 
policy as part of the mortgage lending  whether or not Mr and Mrs T had other provisions 
through Mr Ts job. Further, it was also fair for RBS to assign the cover to repay the 
mortgage if Mr or Mrs T had died during the policy term.  
Mr T said he and Mrs T disagreed with the decision. He made further detailed written 
submissions. I have considered these in their entirety, though I will not be setting them out 
again in full here. In summary, Mr T said:
the FCA lists a number of common failings with mortgage related insurance policies;
the investigator ignored these but they all apply to Mr and Mrs T;
they include leading a customer to believe that the policy had to be taken out in order 
to obtain the loan, not disclosing that the customer could cancel the policy within the 
cooling-off period, not making it clear that the sale was non-advised and not telling 
the customer the total cost of the policy;
the investigator mistakenly said the premiums would reduce  which was not the 
case and Mr T felt this showed a fundamental misunderstanding of the nature of the 
policy and therefore the complaint;
he also said the policy would provide a lump sum for either of them, but it was 
assigned to RBS;
the commission paid for the sale wasnt considered;
the argument that Mr Ts employment benefits may have stopped is irrelevant - as 
the life policy would only have covered Mr T in the event he died, not if he lost his 
job;
it is unfair to say it was custom and practice in 1997 to insist on these policies  that 
cannot be true if banks have paid out millions of pounds in compensation for PPI mis-
sales;
the documents supplied by RBS do not match those held by Mr and Mrs T and this 
causes them to question their authenticity for which RBS ought to be put to strict 
proof;
in Mr Ts opinion, the investigator sidestepped all relevant rules, and law when 
reaching his view.   
Our investigator was not persuaded to change his view. 
Mr and Mrs T asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. Mr T also supplied 
eleven further pages of submissions. I thank him for taking the time to provide such a 
detailed document. As before, I will not be repeating the submissions here though I have 
read the document. I also wont be setting out repeated submissions where these have been 
made earlier in the complaint file. The new comments Mr T wanted considered were:
the investigator said Mr and Mrs T could have obtained their borrowing elsewhere but 
also that it was commonplace for protection policies to be a condition of lending at 
that time  these two things are contradictory;
it has merely been assumed that they were given the right to cancel;
they were not sent documentation at the time in 2002 including key features and 
recommendation information;
they believe these have been retrospectively constructed in both this complaint and 
the complaint about Mr Ts 1997 policy in order to appear compliant;
the investigator questioned the permanency of Mr Ts employment in order to justify 
and support RBSs actions when he should have considered the circumstances at 
the point of sale.
RBS had no additional comments to make.  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It should be noted that this complaint has been pursued alongside another complaint about 
the 1997 sale. Whilst the background and findings for both complaints contain some of the 
same information and they will overlap, they have each been considered in their own right.  
I can see Mr T has gone to a considerable effort in corresponding with both RBS and our 
service. I also note hes supplied detailed comments of his view on the complaint on several 
occasions as referred to above. Whilst Im sorry this wont be what Mr T has hoped for, I 
dont believe this complaint about the sale of the 2002 policy should succeed.
I wont be addressing every individual submission Mr T has made. I have read them but I am 
not required to make findings on each point. My remit is to make findings on what I believe to 
be fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances. I will therefore set out my 
reasoning for what I consider are the central issues in this complaint.
In summary, my findings are:
I understand that Mr T had a longstanding relationship with RBS and therefore he 
approached it in relation to mortgage lending in 1997 and again with Mrs T in 2002;
as part of the 2002 lending, RBS told Mr and Mrs T that it required a protection policy 
to be taken out alongside the lending as it had previously;
this followed the same information issued to Mr T in 1997 with regards to lending; 
however, there is an absence of paperwork from the time of the mortgage sale in 
2002 but I do not believe I must draw an adverse inference from this as records from 
such a long time ago are not always available;
I am able to reach conclusions on the information which is available, the accounts of 
both Mr and Mrs T and RBS and what I find most likely in the circumstances;
in 2002, RBS required security for the lending in the form of life assurance and it 
could reasonably decide the criteria for which it was prepared to lend funds;
if Mr or Mrs T had been unhappy with the provision that they held such a policy with 
RBS, then they could have decided to apply for this lending elsewhere;
unlike the 1997 policy, this policy was not assigned  Mr T made enquiries to the 
insurer in 2005 by submitting an expression of wishes form  and in a letter of 8 
November 2015 the insurer told him about placing the policy in trust or assigning it;
irrespective of the requirement for such cover, I do not find the proposal was an 
unreasonable recommendation for the adviser to make in Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances; 
that is notwithstanding any commission paid to RBS for the sale of the policy  which 
was something RBS was able to do at that time (prior to 2012, when the rules around 
commission payments changed);
I do not believe the provision of commission rendered the recommendation 
unsuitable n the circumstances;
a term assurance policy is the generally recommended type of cover for mortgage 
lending  as it has a set sum assured for the policy term, either a level sum for 
interest-only mortgages or a decreasing sum reducing broadly in line with the 
repayments of a debt;
and the policy proposed to Mr and Mrs T met the mortgage amount and term, on a 
decreasing basis as appropriate for a capital repayment mortgage; 
Mr T has explained how he and Mrs T were taking on an additional financial burden 
in 2002  increasing Mr Ts lending from 1997 as well as taking out a bridging loan;the existing 1997 term assurance was therefore left in force to account for the 
bridging loan;
I do not accept the argument that the documentation from 2002 has been recreated 
or falsified by RBS and I have seen no objective evidence that this is the case;
there is a significant passage of time from the sale and the records may not be 
replicated exactly as the letterheaded paperwork Mr and Mrs T received in 2002 or 
Mr T in 1997;
in this case, the information around the sale is incomplete;
but, I am reasonably persuaded that the sale of the 2002 mortgage would likely have 
followed the same approach as that in 1997 where complete paperwork has been 
obtained  there is no material difference between that sale and the one of 2002 in 
terms of process or the requirement to hold appropriate life insurance to secure the 
lending from RBS;
I am also of the view that it was more likely than not that a cancellation notice was 
issued with the policy having seen the documentation entitled COOLING OFF 
NOTICE and the issuing of the life policy in May 2002;
in that letter it confirmed Enclosed with this letter is 1) a notice advising you of your 
right to cancel and 2) a cancellation form;
insurances such as life assurance are a prudent step to take to provide security for a 
significant liability such as a mortgage;
and though Mr T held life cover through his employment  this was not guaranteed in 
the same way a policy assigned to RBS was, providing premiums were maintained;
that is because jobs can be involuntarily lost, for example through redundancy  and 
for this reason workplace lifer cover benefits do not provide the same security as an 
agreed term assurance for the same length, type and amount of agreed mortgage 
lending;
Mr and Mrs T could reasonably have pursued a claim under the policy if required;
in that eventuality, their mortgage would have been cleared;
as such, I dont agree that the policy premiums ought to be returned to Mr and Mrs T 
as redress when those premiums paid for insurance that RBS has reasonably 
provided;
in reaching my findings I will take account of relevant laws, regulations and best 
industry practice alongside the evidence before me;
I disagree that RBS has caused the failings that Mr T refers to under FCA guidance;
I do not believe it has been shown that RBS misled Mr or Mrs T  contrarily it set out 
the obligation for the mortgage lending, it was for the insurer to issue cancellation 
notices which I have seen dated May 2002, I do not believe the sale was non-
advised merely because of the absence of some paperwork, and the total cost of the 
policy premiums were set out to Mr and Mrs T in the relevant policy schedule. 
For the above reasons, I do not believe this complaint should be upheld. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman