DRN-3666314
The complaint
Ms O complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
L2G provided Ms O with a loan for £500 in July 2020. The loan was repayable at £114.28 
per month over a term of 18 months.
Ms O says L2G irresponsibly lent to her.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought L2G shouldntve lent to Ms O because 
proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable.
L2G disagreed with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending, including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice, is set out on this services website.
The rules require L2G to carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Ms Os 
ability to repay the loan.
These checks need to be borrower focussed, so L2G had to think about whether Ms O 
would be able to sustainably repay the loan. In practice, this means that L2G had to ensure 
that making the loan repayments wouldnt cause Ms o undue financial difficulty. This means 
she shouldve been able to meet repayments out of normal income without having to borrow 
further, and without the repayments having a significant impact on her financial situation.
There are no fixed checks that a business has to carry out. What constitutes a proportionate 
affordability check will depend on a number of factors, including the circumstances of the 
consumer (their financial history, current financial situation and any indicators of financial 
difficulty), the total amount of the loan and the frequency and amount of repayments.
In general, Id expect a lender to carry out more detailed checks the greater the risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the loan sustainably. So, for example, Id expect a 
lender to carry out more detailed checks where:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments from a lower level of income)
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher payment from a particular level of income)
The longer the period of time a borrower would be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total 
cost of credit was likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make repayments for 
an extended period)
Bearing all of this in mind with regard to Ms Os case, Ive considered whether L2G 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Ms Os loan application to 
satisfy itself that Ms O would be able to sustainably repay the loan, and whether L2G made 
a fair lending decision.
L2G gathered information about Ms Os income and expenditure and verified this using third 
party tools. L2G checked Ms Os expenditure to ensure it was reasonable based on national 
statistics. It also carried out a credit check to understand Ms Os existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history. From these checks, L2G concluded that Ms O had enough 
disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
I think these checks were reasonable and proportionate given the size and term of the loan 
and the level of repayments. So, Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was 
fair.
The credit check L2G completed showed that Ms O had a number of active credit 
commitments. Although these commitments were being managed by Ms O, they 
represented a high proportion of her monthly income. In addition, Ms O had a significant 
overdraft balance on her account. Because of this, I think there was a risk that Ms O 
wouldnt be able to meet the loan repayments without needing to borrow further. I think L2G 
ought to have realised that Ms O was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay the loan 
without having to borrow further, and without the repayments having a significant impact on 
her financial situation.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think the information obtained by L2G shouldve alerted 
it to the fact that there was a risk that the loan wasnt affordable for Ms O. Because of this, I 
dont think the lending decision was fair.
Putting things right
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it to put the 
complainant back in the position they would have been in had the mistake not happened, as 
fair as is practical.
In this case, this would mean putting Ms O back in the position she would have been in if 
she hadnt been given the loan. But Mrs O was given the loan and has used the money and 
made repayments. So, to put things right here, L2G should refund all interest and charges 
that Ms O has paid on the loan. 
Ms Os credit file should accurately reflect her credit history. However, I dont think its fair 
that Ms Os credit file should be adversely affected by L2Gs decision to lend irresponsibly. 
L2G should remove any adverse information relating to the loan from Ms Os credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. To settle the complaint, Loans 2 Go Limited 
must:
Add up the total amount of money Ms O received as a result of being given the loan. The 
repayments made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Ms O having paid more than she received, any overpayments should be refunded together with 8% simple interest calculated from the date the overpayments were 
made to the date of settlement
If a capital balance remains outstanding, then L2G should arrange an affordable payment 
plan with Ms O
HMRC requires L2G to take off tax from the interest. It must give Ms O a certificate showing 
how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman