DRN-3139471
The complaint
Mr P complains about a charge for usage of a car that has been made by FCE Bank plc, 
trading as Ford Credit, when he voluntarily terminated the hire purchase agreement under 
which the car had been supplied to him.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr P under a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit that he 
signed in May 2015. He voluntarily terminated the agreement in May 2018 and returned the 
car but Ford Credit charged him £162.52 for the 13 days use of the car since his last monthly 
instalment (which it says was calculated as a pro rata proportion of his monthly instalment). 
Mr P complained to it about the charge because he said that hed paid more than the 
amount required to voluntarily terminate the agreement and there was no provision for pro-
rata instalments in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 or in the agreement. Ford Credit said that 
it had acted in accordance with the procedures and terms set out in the agreement and had 
fully adhered to the terms of the Consumer Credit Act. Mr P wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
Ford Credit had treated Mr P unfairly or had done something wrong which it needed to put 
right. 
Mr P has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded to 
our investigators recommendation in detail and has set out the reasons that he considers 
that Ford Credit isnt able to charge him an additional amount for his use of the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
the agreement says: You have a right to end this agreement. To do so, you should 
write to the person you make your payments to. They will then be entitled to the 
return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this agreement, that is 
£12,143 96 (twelve thousand one hundred and forty three pounds and ninety six 
pence). If you have already paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments, 
and have taken reasonable care of me goods, you will not have to pay any more;
Mr P had paid more than that amount so says that he shouldnt have to pay any more 
to Ford Credit, including the £162.52 that hes been charged for 13 days use of the 
car;
Mr P says that the car belonged to him and that there was no hire period  but I 
consider that the arrangements set out in the agreement are consistent with the 
arrangements that I would expect to see in a hire purchase agreement  including 
paragraph 1(a) of the terms and conditions which says: We agree to let and you 
agree to take from us on hire purchase terms from the date we sign the agreement 
the Goods  so Im not persuaded that Mr P owned the car until he returned it as the 
car was owned by Ford Credit (unless Mr P bought it on the terms set out in the 
agreement, including the payment of the purchase fee);
Mr P had agreed to make an initial payment of £385.04 and then 35 monthly 
payments of £375.04 for the car to be supplied to him and there was an optional final 
payment of £9,765.60 and a purchase fee of £10 if he wanted to keep the car;
he voluntarily terminated the agreement in May 2018 and Ford Credit sent him a 
letter which set out the actions required and it said: You are also liable to pay for the 
use of the vehicle since the last monthly instalment was due to the date your letter 
terminating the agreement, was received by us. This amount is £12 50 per day and is 
calculated on a pro rata proportion of your monthly instalment This amount as of 
today's date is £162 52 If the vehicle is not made available for collection within 14 
days of the receipt of your letter, the daily rate will continue to accrue until such time 
as the vehicle is collected; 
Mr P had agreed to pay £375.04 each month for the car to be supplied to him  and, 
when his voluntary termination letter was received by Ford Credit, hed used the car 
for 13 days that hadnt been covered by the monthly payments that hed made at that 
time; 
I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mr P to pay for the use that he had from the 
car and Im not persuaded that the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act or the 
terms of the agreement prevent Ford Credit charging Mr P for the 13 days of use;
I consider that the reference in the voluntary termination section of the agreement to 
overdue instalments would include a pro rata instalment for part of a month and that 
the daily usage charge of £12.50, which is one thirtieth of the monthly payment, 
wasnt an unfair or unreasonable figure for Ford Credit to use;
Mr P clearly feels very strongly that he shouldnt have to pay the charge of £162.52 
but Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Ford Credit has 
acted incorrectly in these circumstances; and
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Ford Credit to waive or 
cancel that charge or to take any other action in response to Mr Ps complaint.
I suggest that Mr P pays the outstanding amount to Ford Credit  if he doesnt do so it may 
take further action against him, to the extent that its legally entitled to do so, to recover that 
amount from him.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman