DRN-2544387
The complaint
Mr H has made a complaint because Liverpool Victoria Financial Services Limited want him 
to pay back some money which was paid to him following a successful claim on his income 
protection policy.
What happened
Mr H successfully claimed on his income protection policy following ill-health and has been 
receiving a monthly benefit. During a regular claim review LV noted that Mr Hs tax return 
indicated that hed received an income of around £8400 from the limited company of which 
Mr H was the sole director. LV reviewed the available information and calculated that theyd 
overpaid Mr H by around £5000. 
Mr H says he acted on the advice of his accountant as taking a salary was the most tax-
efficient way to access the companys cash reserves. Hes provided evidence showing this 
to be the case. Mr H made a complaint to LV. In their final response letter LV said that they 
had fairly applied the policy terms and conditions and said that they had acted fairly by 
recalculating the benefit for the relevant period.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think LV had acted unfairly 
bearing in mind the policy terms and the overall circumstances. 
Mr H didnt agree. He says, in summary, that there is discretion in the policy terms for LV to 
allow him to retain the full benefit, he had acted openly and had he categorised the salary as 
a dividend or bonus then he would have been able to retain the full amount. Hes referred to 
the policy terms in support of his position. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to say at the outset that I have found Mr Hs explanation of his actions to be credible. 
Hes also provided supporting evidence from his accountant which confirms why he took the 
actions he did. Its clear to me he was acting on advice from his accountant to enable tax 
efficiencies given his circumstances at the time. However, whilst I have a lot of empathy with 
his position, Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The terms and conditions of the policy set out how the monthly benefit is calculated and say 
that LV will deduct some things from the monthly benefit including:
60% of any continuing income or pension payments that you are still receiving whilst 
you are claiming, (we dont take into account any income earned before you became 
unable to work  for example a bonus that is paid at the end of the year)
We take these payments off so that in total you dont receive payments totalling more 
than your income and lose the incentive to go back to work. Dont forget that 
payments we make to you are free of income tax and therefore closer to your 
previous taxed income. 
The policy defines income as: 
Your taxable earned income before any income tax is paid, minus any expenses 
which are allowable against income tax. Youll find this figure on your P60 if you are 
employed or your tax return if self-employed
Mr H took a salary from the limited company and had to complete a tax return to declare it. 
So, Im satisfied that this fell within the policy definition of income. 
I think the overall policy terms make it clear that the policy is designed to ensure that 
policyholders dont receive more than their insured income. And Mr H received money which 
falls within the policy definition of income. By receiving an additional salary Mr H received 
around £8400 in addition to the monthly benefit reflecting his insured income. So, if I directed 
LV to pay, in effect, hed be receiving two salaries. I dont think it would be fair for me to 
direct LV to step outside the terms of the policy in the circumstances of this case. 
Mr H says that if hed taken this as a dividend LV wouldnt have been able to reduce the 
monthly benefit and hes being penalised for being efficient. And, he says that the list of 
circumstances in which LV could consider money to have been earned before he was 
unable to work is not exhaustive. Instead, it gives an example of a bonus paid at the end of 
the year. But these points havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
Its unfortunate that Mr H chose to take the money as a salary, rather than as a dividend. But 
my role is to assess the complaint on the facts as they are. I understand its not possible for 
Mr H to amend the information on his tax return. And I can also see from the accountants 
correspondence that there would have been other disadvantages if Mr H had decided to do 
that. 
The list in the policy isnt exhaustive in relation to the circumstances in which a policyholder 
can retain income they earned before they were unable to work. But I cant fairly conclude 
the planned release of cash reserves from a limited company for tax efficiency is comparable 
with the receipt of an annual bonus in the circumstances of this case. I think the two 
situations are very different. So, Mr Hs representations on this point havent changed my 
thoughts about the outcome of this complaint. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr H but I think LV has fairly recalculated the policy benefits for the 
relevant period which means that Mr H received more than he should have done.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman