DRN-3933658
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with BetterBorrow, who is a trading name of Chetwood Financial Limited. 
Mr S complains BetterBorrow lent to him irresponsibly. Mr S is represented by his wife, 
Mrs S, in bringing this complaint
For the purposes of this decision, I have referred to Chetwood Financial throughout as it is 
accountable for the actions of BetterBorrow.
What happened
Mr S wife fell victim to an investment scam in early 2022. As part of the scam, Mrs S was 
led to believe she needed to pay fees and charges to withdraw funds from her investment. 
She didnt have the funds to meet these costs and so, over a space of three weeks, Mr S 
and his wife applied to borrow £156,450 over 11 loans with several different lenders. 
In April 2022 Mr S applied to Chetwood Financial for, and was given a loan for £9,700, which 
was repayable over a period of 48 months. The repayments were around £262 a month, and 
in total Mr S agreed to pay back about £12,588 over the four years, after interest was added. 
Mr S explains he and his wife were groomed and coached by the scammers on how to apply 
for the loans. Mr S thinks Chetwood Financial should have checked his circumstances more 
thoroughly before agreeing to lend because with better checks, Chetwood Financial ought to 
have seen he could not afford this loan.
Chetwood Financial says it completed appropriate checks before it approved lending to Mr S 
and these showed the borrowing was affordable. It also ran checks to verify Mr S details 
including his name, address and bank details and asked authentication questions which it 
cross-referenced with the information showing on his credit file. These didnt lead it to 
believe the loan application wasn't made by Mr S.
Unhappy with the response Mr S got from Chetwood Financial, he brought his complaint to 
this service. Mr S wants Chetwood Financial to forgo collecting on the loan altogether. Our 
Investigator considered the complaint. He concluded that with reasonable and proportionate 
checks, Chetwood Financial would have considered Mr S able to sustainably afford this loan.
Mr S disagreed with the investigator and because an agreement couldnt be reached, the 
case has been passed to me to decide.
Mr S loan with Chetwood Financial is his first but also the seventh in the chain of Mr and 
Mrs S loan applications and this decision is looking only at this one loan agreement. I am 
aware Mr S (and his wife) have referred other cases concerning some of the other loan 
applications and these have been/shall be looked at under separate case references.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr S complaint. Im sorry to hear of the 
devastating impact this matter has had, and is having on, Mr S and his family. I dont wish to 
cause them any further distress  but I must give my decision based on what I consider to be 
fair and reasonable, taking account of all evidence in the circumstances relating to this 
individual case. Ive considered Mr S submissions carefully, but Im not persuaded to reach 
a different outcome from the Investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
Chetwood Financial needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr S 
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr S would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. There is no set list of what 
reasonable and proportionate checks should look like, rather greater thoroughness might be 
reasonably expected where a person on a lower level of income may be borrowing a high 
sum, or taking out borrowing over a longer period which could potentially cost more in the 
longer term.
Chetwood Financial did complete some checks to see if the loan was affordable. Chetwood 
Financial has said Mr S would not have been offered the loan if he had not passed its 
checking criteria. In summary, it explained that part of its checks involved reviewing Mr S 
credit profile to assess his income and expenditure, and it also used information from Mr S 
active credit file. Chetwood Financial concluded that after taking out the proposed loan, Mr S 
would be left with £224 disposal income a month. It had also allowed for a £161 buffer as 
part of its assessment.
Mr S was borrowing a reasonably large amount over a significant term, but Mr S was also in 
permanent employment on a good salary  he had declared he took home on average 
£2,683 a month when applying for the loan. Chetwood Financial used an automated check 
of his current account turnover to validate the declared income. I have some concerns about 
Chetwood Financial only relying on a credit reference agency data tool to analyse Mr S 
current account turnover data and validate the income he had declared. I say this because 
an amber status was returned as the result.
Chetwood Financial explained an amber status meant that Mr S average income across the 
six months leading up to his application was at least 90% of the income that was declared 
and was also 80% or more of what was declared for at least five or six months. I can see 
how such a result may provide a level assurance in some cases but that very much depends 
on a borrowers expenditure and the level of disposable income which results  that is in 
effect the margin for error. 
Ive also considered that Mr S current account was held jointly with his wife and both of their 
salaries were mandated to the one account. This means Chetwood Financial ought either to 
have carried out further checks to ensure that Mrs S income was available (also taking 
account of her expenditure) or to have validated Mr S income by another means. I have 
reviewed Mr S current account statements and seen that his average take home pay 
between January and March 2022 had been around £2,679 a month. In Mr S case, the 
overstatement of his income was negligible  and Mr and Mrs S also received child benefit 
payments into their joint account. So allowing for half the child benefit would mean Mr S 
income was closer to £2,778 a month.
I have also considered Mr S expenditure and I noted that in addition to the monthly 
mortgage and other credit commitments showing on his credit file, Chetwood Financial used 
a national average for his other living expenses. It arrived at a figure of £629. Its difficult to 
say how accurately its estimate reflects his actual circumstances but Ive not needed to 
make a finding as to its reliability. I say this because Mr S has shared more details about his 
households monthly non-discretionary spending, which totalled around £1,500  it was 
made up of:
Food and household shopping £300.00
Council tax £222.00Utilities £182.00
Insurances £216.00
Phone/TV/Internet £175.00
Travel (including petrol) £190.00
Childcare £200.00
Healthcare £11.00
I have looked at Mr S bank statements and noting his account was joint with Mrs S, I think 
its fair to say these were split equally between Mr and Mrs S. My cursory review allows 
sufficient confidence in the figures he has provided
So, taking account of his share of the non-discretionary spending, his share of the joint 
mortgage and his other credit commitments, his existing average outgoings came to £2,260 
a month. And with no suggestion Mr S intended to consolidate any of his existing credit 
commitments, this left Mr S with £516 a month before the new loan commitment of £262, 
leaving him with sufficient free income to repay the new loan sustainably.
Altogether, considering what it did and didnt know about Mr S circumstances alongside the 
amount and duration of the loan hed applied for, I think had Chetwood Financial made 
reasonable and proportionate checks, it still would have been responsible to agree to lend 
this loan to him. 
Finally, Ive considered whether Chetwood Financial ought to have identified Mr S 
application was in connection to the investment scam he had fallen victim to. But the 
evidence from the time does not support the application being less than genuine  for 
example, the funds were released to a bank account which Chetwood Financial had 
confirmed as belonging to Mr S. Although Chetwood Financial did not ask the purpose of the 
loan, having also considered Mr and Mrs S other loan applications made under the influence 
of the scammers, I very much doubt he would have revealed his true intentions for the funds. 
So, I cant fairly say Chetwood Financial could have prevented Mr S investment in the scam 
 afterall, his wife had already secured funds from Chetwood Financial and other lenders 
and continued to approach more lenders for further funds to invest.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr S complaint or make an award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Stefan Riedel
Ombudsman