DRN-4058168
The complaint
Ms S complains about Zurich Insurance PLCs handling of her buildings insurance claim.  
All references to Zurich also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My final decision considers the complaint points answered in Zurichs final response letters 
of September and October 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint for these reasons:
Having reviewed the policy, I can see it is in the name of a limited company and the 
lessees of. Ms S raised that our service hasnt examined her lease. However, what 
is relevant here, is whether Ms S is a policy holder. She herself has referenced being 
a leaseholder. And therefore, as the policy is in the name of the lesees of, Im 
satisfied Ms S is a policyholder.
Paying an excess is a common condition of claiming under most policies. And its not 
unusual for the amount to be deducted from any payment an Insurer makes to a 
consumer. The policy defines an excess as:
The amount for which you are responsible and which will be deducted from any 
payment under this Policy after the application of all the other terms and conditions of 
the Policy.
You is also defined under the policy as the person shown as the insured. And as 
Ive set out above, Im satisfied Ms S is a leaseholder and therefore is a policyholder. 
So, I dont think Zurich have acted unreasonably in deducting the excess as it has. I 
understand Ms S feels this cost should be the responsibility of the freeholder, but this 
would be a matter for her to take up with them separately and it is not something our 
service will comment on.
Zurich confirmed to Ms S it would cover work to remove and refit the toilet under the 
trace and access section of the policy but didnt accept the cost of sanitaryware. This 
claim falls within the escape of water section of the policy, and I cant see the 
sanitaryware is subject to this, or that it is covered elsewhere under the policy. So, I 
dont think Zurich have acted unfairly in not accepting the sanitaryware as part of the 
claim.
I can see Zurichs loss adjuster was provided with correspondence from Ms S, which 
included invoices for the works covered under the claim, in April 2022.  
Zurich werent obliged to provide interim payments under the terms of the policy. And 
as other works were being carried out, that werent covered under the claim, its not 
unreasonable Zurich needed to see invoices before validating the payments. 
However, when the invoices were provided, Zurich should have ensured the 
settlement was processed promptly. This didnt happen, and it wasnt processed until 
around October 2022. As a result, Ms S was deprived of the money during this time. 
So, I can fully appreciate her frustration.
Because of this, I think its reasonable Zurich pay simple interest of 8% on the 
amount it is settling for in the claim. This should be from the date the invoices were 
provided to Zurich in April 2022 to the date it makes payment. Zurich says the 
interest was calculated as £650 and was reflected in its correspondence to Ms S in 
October 2022. 
I appreciate Ms S feels the interest should be paid from the date of the invoices, not 
the date they were provided. However, as Ive set out above, Im not persuaded it 
was unfair for Zurich to see an invoice before validating the claim, so I think its 
reasonable it should pay interest from the date the invoices were provided to it. 
I do think there have been examples of poor communication from Zurich and the 
service it provided couldve been better. There was an ongoing issue regarding the 
number of excesses due to be charged on the claim. Though this was later resolved, 
and treated as one claim and excess, the concern of additional costs of multiple 
excesses (which in this case were around £5,000 each) would have understandably 
caused Ms S concern.
I can also see Zurich was aware Ms S made payments for the invoices in February 
2022. Zurich could have been proactive in requesting the invoices from Ms S but it 
didnt. And when the invoices were submitted it caused avoidable delays in making 
the payment. So, I think it should compensate Ms S for the poor claim handling. 
Zurich offered a total of £300 compensation in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience its actions have caused. 
Ms S was deprived of the funds shed paid for the repairs for around 6 months and 
has spoken of the impact of being without the money. She was also funding other 
repairs at the property, not covered under the policy, which Zurich were aware of. 
So, I think being without these funds over several months added avoidable stress 
and worry to an already inconvenient situation. 
Considering everything Ive set out above. I think Zurich should pay Ms S a total of 
£400 compensation. This is in region of what I would recommend in circumstances 
and appropriately represents the significant inconvenience Ms S has been caused by 
Zurichs actions.
Putting things right
If it hasnt done so already, Zurich must pay simple interest of 8% on the amounts 
shown on the relevant invoices, covered under the claim. This should be from the 
date the invoices were provided to Zurich in April 2022 to the date it makes payment 
to Ms S.
Zurich should pay Ms S a total of £400 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its actions have caused.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint.
To put things right, I direct Zurich Insurance PLC to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman