DRN-3195549
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, changed her 
payment due date without telling her. And that it wont allow her to change to a more suitable 
date.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by a third party, but for ease I will refer to Miss B 
throughout.
What happened
Miss B said that previously the payment date varied each month but was generally towards 
the end of the month. This suited her as she is paid on or around the 21st or 22nd each 
month. She said that, from February 2021, the due date changed to the 19th of each month, 
without any warning and that Shop Direct refuses to change it.
Shop Direct said it changed its systems in January 2021 so that statements were sent every 
calendar month, rather than every 28 days. Whereas there were different payment dates 
each time a statement was issued, now there is a fixed payment date. Shop Direct explained 
Miss Bs fixed payment date of the 19th was set according to what the payment due date 
would have been in February 2021. It said it gave Miss B notice of the change in an email.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
the payment date changed following a change in Shop Directs systems and that it had given 
Miss B notice in line with the agreed terms and conditions.
Miss B didnt agree. She said, in summary, that:
Her payment date had never previously been as early as the 19th.
She had to borrow money to meet the monthly payments.
She never received notice of the change.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the 
following reasons:
Shop Directs terms and conditions allow it to vary the terms of the agreement to reflect, 
amongst other things, changes to our systems. It says,
We will give you 30 days written notice of the variation where any such change is not to 
your benefit.
I dont think the change in payment due date is necessarily not beneficial. But I think it was 
significant enough that I would expect Shop Direct to give Miss B notice of the change.
Im satisfied from the evidence Shop Direct has provided that it emailed Miss B 30 days 
before the change came into effect. The email made it reasonably clear that her payment 
date would change from a variable date to a fixed date of the 19th each month.
I appreciate Miss B says she didnt receive this email. I accept thats possible  it may have 
gone to her spam folder, or she may have accidently deleted it without reading it, or without 
paying much attention to its significance. But Im satisfied that Shop Direct sent it, so it 
fulfilled its obligation to give her notice of the change.
Shop Direct told us that, because the date was based on what would have been her 
February due date under its old system, Miss Bs fixed date was not earlier than her 
payment date would have been if it had remained on a 28 day cycle. So she wasnt 
negatively impacted by the change. And I can see from the evidence Miss B sent us that her 
January 2021 payment date was the 22nd. Following the 28-day cycle, her February payment 
would have been due on the 19th under the old system. So I think Shop Direct treated her 
fairly when it moved to the new, monthly system by keeping her payment date the same.
Miss B told us she had to borrow money to make the February payment. But as the date 
didnt change from what it would have been under the old system, I dont find her need to 
borrow money was caused by anything Shop Direct did.
As our investigator explained, Miss B could choose to make the payment earlier than the 
fixed date - so as soon as she receives the statement at the end of the month. This might 
help her better manage things as it will be shortly after shes been paid.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman