DRN-1695761
The complaint
Miss M complains that Santander UK Plc are holding her liable for transactions made over a 
period of months on her debit card to a money transfer provider W  that she says she 
didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont repeat it 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Santander can only hold Miss M liable for the transactions she disputes if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that she made or otherwise authorised them. The 
transactions in dispute were all made online. Im satisfied they were correctly authenticated 
by Santander by using the card number and security details. But I must also consider 
whether Miss M consented to the transactions. On balance, I think she did for the reasons 
our investigator has already explained and in particular:  
Miss M still had her debit card throughout this period and was using it for transactions 
she doesnt dispute. So, its hard to see how a third party would have known the card 
number and security details required to make the payments.
Miss M has 3D Verification in relation to her card. This is a further level of security 
which requires a password to authenticate online payments. Its hard to understand 
how a third party could have known that password. 
Santander have evidenced that some of the disputed transactions were made from 
IP Addresses that Miss M has used when logging in to her online banking with them. 
It would be unusual for a third party to be using the same IP address as Miss Ms 
genuine use.  
Even if I were to accept (which I dont) that someone had surreptitiously recorded all 
the required details from Miss Ms card without her knowledge (and that they knew 
the additional password)  the transactions took place over a period of months. 
Commonly a third party would look to deplete the funds very quickly, not over an 
extended period. Particularly when the payments could have been noticed and the 
card blocked at any time. 
I can see from the online banking records that Miss M checked her account 
numerous times within this period. I think she would have seen at least some of the 
transactions she now disputes. Some of these were made around four months before 
she reported the matter to Santander. If Miss M hadnt consented to these 
transactions, I think she would have raised them with Santander sooner. Miss M says 
she reported it as soon as she noticed. Ive considered this, but Im more persuaded 
by the technical evidence from the online banking records. 
 Overall, I think the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss M authorised the 
transactions. It follows that I think it is fair for Santander to hold her liable for them. 
My final decision
For the reasons already shared by our investigator and those outlined above, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman