DRN-3164318
The complaint
Mr B said Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit 
card in 1995. 
What happened
It looks as though Mr B initially complained to Lloyds about the sale of PPI at some point in 
2015. Lloyds issued a final response letter in respect of that complaint on 5 August 2015. 
Lloyds said it didnt think it had mis-sold PPI to Mr B and that he needed to complain to this 
service within six months if he didnt accept its response to the complaint. 
Mr B appears to have instructed his current representatives in or around April 2017 and a 
further complaint was made to Lloyds. Lloyds issued a further reply on 9 June 2017 in which 
it said it had already considered whether PPI had been mis-sold. On 16 May 2018, Lloyds 
did offer to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of Mr 
Bs PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr B about the high level of commission and 
profit share he would pay, and that failure to disclose was unfair.
Those representing Mr B then referred the complaint to this service on 8 June 2018. The 
grounds of complaint were that PPI had been mis-sold and that the offer Lloyds made in 
respect of commission was unfair. 
Lloyds didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold. It reiterated its 
position that Mr B had referred the complaint to us too late.   
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and thought we couldnt help with Mr Bs complaint about 
how this policy was sold. And they thought Lloydss payment was a fair way to resolve the 
complaint
Mr Bs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They argued that Lloyds final 
response letter was that which was sent out on 16 May 2018. As the complaint was referred 
to us on 8 June 2018, it was argued that the complaint had been made in time. In the 
alternative, the representative submitted that the original response from Lloyds did not deal 
with all of the arguments that had now been put forward on behalf of Mr B. 
As the matter could not be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Im satisfied Lloyds sent a valid final response to Mr B on 5 August 2015. So he had until 5 
February 2016 to refer his complaint to us. But he didnt do this until 8 June 2018. So the 
complaint was referred out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. Having considered 
the information before me, I cant reasonably say that raising new arguments about a 
complaint should extend the time limit. Im satisfied exceptional circumstances dont apply in 
this case. 
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr B with his complaint about how this policy was 
sold.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what would amount to fair compensation to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Lloyds should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Lloydss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Lloyds didnt tell Mr B about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Lloyds and Mr B was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
Lloyds didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this 
case, 
I dont think Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr B because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
Mr Bs representative made several submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipIn summary, it was argued Mr B should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: Lloyds failed to tell Mr B about the high commission and profit-share rates paid; the 
low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was argued these things 
meant the policy was poor value. It was further argued I should find that Mr B wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a 
refund of all the premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether 
the consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy 
the unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow 
that a court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or 
conclude that a consumer would not have purchased the policy had the 
commission been disclosed; and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to 
merge the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and 
guidance about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI 
complaints) and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy 
caused by it should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr B in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Lloyds not disclosing the 
high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness, 
I am not, as Mr Bs representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for Lloydss failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above. I think it was fair for Lloyds to calculate compensation in line with 
the FCAs guidance and return some of the money Mr B paid for his PPI policy. I consider 
this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that Lloydss offer to pay an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.My final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Bs complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Lloyds 
Bank PLC should pay Mr B an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share paid in 
excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman