DRN-2777856
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Santander UK Plc (Santander) has recorded missed mortgage 
payments on his credit file, even though he was no longer responsible for the mortgage. 
What happened
Mr D took a mortgage on a property in 2010. In 2013 Mr D went through a divorce and part 
of the divorce settlement was that Mr D transferred the mortgaged property to his ex-wife. 
This arrangement was made in court and was unrelated to Santanders dealings with Mr Ds 
mortgage.
The property transfer was completed in April 2014. Whilst most of the mortgage payments 
continued to be made, the mortgage fell into arrears in June 2013 and remained in this 
position until it was redeemed in 2018. As a result, late payments were recorded on Mr Ds 
credit file between 2014 and 2018. 
Mr D has complained that the missed mortgage payments have been recorded against his 
credit file, despite the fact he was no longer the owner of the property. In its response to Mr 
Ds complaint Santander explained that the ownership of the property and the person 
responsible for the mortgage are entirely separate. And it explained that as Mr Ds ex-wife 
didnt apply to transfer the existing mortgage into her own name, Mr D remained responsible 
for the payments, despite the change in ownership of the property.
I should explain at this stage that there are several court-related matters at hand in this case, 
such as the divorce settlement and the court orders related to the property transfer. I cant 
comment on any of those issues, so Mr D will need to seek legal advice if he wants to 
pursue anything related to them. But I can consider whether the missed mortgage payments 
were fairly recorded against Mr Ds credit file.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. He 
explained that whilst it was very frustrating, Mr D was in fact responsible for the mortgage 
payments throughout the period of time in question. So he didnt think Santander had acted 
unfairly by recording the missed payments in the way it had. 
As Mr D didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know itll come as a disappointment to Mr D but having considered everything, Im not 
upholding his complaint. Ill explain why. 
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is the fact that although his property had been transferred to 
his ex-wife, he remained liable for the mortgage repayments, and consequently missed and 
late payments have had an adverse effect on his credit rating. Mr D says Santander failed to 
protect his interests as a customer.
I should start by explaining that ownership of a property and liability to repay a charge 
secured against a property are two separate things. When Mr Ds former property was 
transferred to his ex-wife, that didnt automatically mean that the debt secured against the 
property should also be transferred. And from what Ive seen thats the case here.
Santander has explained that it wouldnt automatically transfer the mortgage on the property 
to the new owner, unless that person specifically requested this, or applied for the mortgage 
in their own name, to release the charge recorded against the former debtor. And having 
considered what Santander has said, I dont think this is unfair. 
This is an unfortunate situation whereby Mr D was left responsible for, and paying for, a 
property which he no longer owned. I can certainly understand how frustrating that mustve 
been for Mr D. And this was exacerbated by the fact that Mr Ds ex-wife, whom he says 
shouldve been making payments against the mortgage in his name, didnt do so. So I 
understand why Mr D feels as though hes lost out in a number of different ways. 
But in making my decision I have to consider what Santander did or didnt do in this case. 
And Santanders responsibility as a lender is to report full and accurate information to the 
credit reference agencies. I note that the mortgage secured against the property was held in 
Mr Ds name until it was redeemed in 2018, and the late and missed payments Mr D has 
complained about happened from 2014 onwards. So even if Mr D had an arrangement with 
his ex-wife to make those payments, Mr D was ultimately responsible for ensuring they were 
paid in full, and on time each month. And although Mr D believes there may have been 
reasons for his ex-wife not making the payments she should have, I cant say that Santander 
is at fault for recording this on Mr Ds credit file, as the mortgage was still held in his name.
I know that Mr D has also complained that Santander shouldve repossessed the property. 
But the regulators guidance to financial institutions is that repossession of a property should 
only be considered as a very last resort. And this was complicated by the ownership of the 
property the mortgage was secured against having been transferred to Mr Ds ex-wife. Its 
also important to remember that repossession can be a fairly expensive and labour-intensive 
process  the costs of which are usually added to the mortgage, which Mr D was responsible 
for. So although Ive seen that Mr D did indeed request for the property to be repossessed in 
2016 in a letter to Santander, I dont think it was unreasonable of Santander not to honour 
this request. 
I want to reassure Mr D that Ive thought carefully about his complaint. And whilst I havent 
addressed each point hes raised individually, Ive thought about everything and commented 
on the points that are within my power to do so. But having done so, for the reasons Ive 
outlined about, Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr D.   
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Sam WadeOmbudsman