DRN-2848909
The complaint
Ms C and Mr O are unhappy with what Great Lakes Insurance SE did after they made a 
claim on their wedding insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms C and Mr O were due to get married overseas in mid 2020. They took out a wedding 
insurance policy underwritten by Great Lakes in November 2018. In April 2020 Mr O was 
made redundant from his job meaning they couldnt go ahead with their wedding and 
reception as planned. They postponed this until the following year and made a claim to 
Great Lakes for costs associated with this.
Great Lakes turned down the claim. It said while the policy did cover cancellation and 
rearrangement costs in the event of redundancy that was only where the redundancy 
qualified for payment under current legislation. As Mr O had been employed for less than 
two years he wasnt eligible for statutory redundancy pay. So it didnt think this claim met the 
policy terms. However, it accepted there had been delays with its initial handling of the claim 
and offered to pay Ms C and Mr O £50 in recognition of the impact of this on them. 
Our investigator didnt agree Great Lakes had fairly turned down the claim. She agreed Mr O 
wasnt entitled to redundancy pay because hed been employed for less than two years. 
However, the policy terms didnt say he needed to be in receipt of redundancy pay but that 
the redundancy needed to qualify for payment under current redundancy legislation. In this 
case Mr O had a statutory right to a weeks paid notice. 
She didnt think the claim had been correctly turned down and said Great Lakes should pay 
this in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. She also thought the 
compensation for the delays should be increased to £100.
Ms C and Mr O agreed though drew attention to the stress this matter had caused them at 
an already difficult time. Great Lakes didnt agree. It said Mr O hadnt received redundancy 
pay. And his former employer had said the payment that was made wasnt part of a 
redundancy package but was a gesture of goodwill. So I need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Ms C and Mr Os policy. I can see this does 
provide cover for cancellation (and rearrangement) costs in certain circumstances which 
include: 
redundancy, where notice is received at least 8 weeks after the issue of the certificate and 
qualifying for payment under the current redundancy legislation, of the Marrying Couple or 
any of their relatives who would have made proven, significant, financial contributions on 
which the Wedding plans depend
The policy goes on to exclude cancellation or rearrangement due to unemployment unless it 
comes about as a result of redundancy which meets the above term. 
In this case I dont think its in dispute that Mr O was made redundant in April 2020 and the 
cancellation and subsequent rearrangement of the wedding and reception resulted from that. 
Ms C and Mr Os insurance policy certificate is dated November 2018 and Mr O wasnt given 
notice of redundancy until April 2020. Thats obviously more than eight weeks since the 
certificate was issued and therefore meets the first part of the policy term. 
The question is whether what happened meets the definition of redundancy set out in the 
terms. Great Lakes argues it doesnt because Mr O had been working for his employer for 
less than two years at the time and so wasnt entitled to redundancy pay. I think its agreed 
Mr O wasnt eligible for redundancy pay. But the policy doesnt say he has to be. What it 
says is that the redundancy must qualify for payment under current redundancy legislation. 
The legislation which applies is the Employment Right Act 1996. That sets out the 
circumstances in which an employee is entitled to redundancy pay. But it also says that 
where an employer terminates the contract of employment of an employee who has been 
employed for between one month and two years they are entitled to at least one weeks paid 
notice. Thats the situation Mr O was in. And that paid notice period is a requirement of the 
relevant legislation. So although Mr O wasnt entitled to redundancy pay I think his 
redundancy did qualify for payment under current redundancy legislation. 
Great Lakes says the payment made by Mr Os employer was a gesture of goodwill and 
wasnt part of a redundancy package. I appreciate it may not have been made as part of a 
redundancy package. I also recognise that Mr Os employer appears to have provided more 
notice than the statutory minimum. But I dont see that makes a difference. Under the terms 
of the policy the test it isnt what the employer actually pays but whether the redundancy 
qualifies for payment under current legislation. For the reasons Ive explained I think it does. 
I also agree there were a number of delays in handling the claim and the complaint Ms C 
and Mr O subsequently made. I agree that will have been frustrating for them at what was 
already a difficult time. I think a payment of £100 would be appropriate to recognise the 
impact on them of what Great Lakes got wrong here. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes will need to pay the claim Ms C and Mr O made in line with the remaining policy 
terms. It will also need to pay them £100. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr O to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman