DRN-3830983
The complaint
Mrs G, on behalf of the estate of Mr M complains Zurich Assurance Ltd (Zurich) deprived the 
estate of the funds from an interest that matured in 2003.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute Zurich should have done more to make Mrs G aware on the 
matured investment when she contacted them to discuss a separate matter in 2009 
and made them aware of her fathers passing.
Zurich have acknowledged this and agreed to pay interest on the maturity amount. It 
is the rate at which that interest is calculated which remains in dispute.
Zurich say Mrs G had no awareness of the matured funds in 2009 and therefore she 
has not suffered a financial loss. Instead, they feel their offer to pay interest for the 
claim being paid late at the Bank of England base rate + 1% reflects what really 
happened  but I dont agree.  
I agree Mrs G had no awareness of the funds in 2009. But had Zurich done more to 
bring it to her attention, which all parties agree they should have done, this wouldnt 
have been the case, and the funds would have been available to the estate of Mr M 
sooner.
Ultimately, its the estate of Mr M that has been deprived of the maturity funds since 
2009 and Im satisfied interest paid at a rate of 8% simple per year is appropriate to 
reflect that.
Zurich also offered to pay Mrs G £500 compensation for the trouble and upset their 
late notification of her late fathers investment may have caused.
The rules I must follow say I can only make awards to eligible complainants  in this 
case that is the estate of Mr M. I cant compensate an executor for any impact 
incurred by them personally when representing an estate, so Ive not commented on 
this offer. Mrs G should contact Zurich directly to see if their offer remains available 
and confirm if she wants to accept it.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve estate of Mr Ms complaint Zurich Assurance Ltd should:
pay 8% simple interest per year on the maturity value of £52,876.15 from 26 May 
2009 up to the date the funds were paid to the estate.
If Zurich Assurance Ltd considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from any interest due to the estate, they should tell Mrs G how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman