DRN-3471674
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) didnt reimburse her for her loss after 
she was the victim of a scam.
What happened
In August 2021 Mrs S was looking for accommodation for a holiday online. She found two 
apartments advertised that were suitable and made arrangements to pay the rental 
company. To do this, she transferred money to her Wise account to make an international 
payment of 1,475 euro.
Shortly after completing the transfer Mrs S searched online and discovered several negative 
suggesting the authentic travel company she thought shed been dealing with had been 
cloned and individuals had been tricked into sending money to a scammer. Unfortunately 
this is what had happened in Mrs Ss case.
She contacted Wise to report shed been the victim of a scam and asked it to reverse the 
payment, which wasnt possible as the transaction had already been carried out and the 
money had left the account. It contacted the international bank that had received the money 
to try and recall it, but this was unsuccessful and Mrs Ss money couldnt be returned. 
Mrs S was unhappy with this and felt Wise shouldve done more, such as carry out checks 
for her before sending the money. She was also unhappy it hadnt been able to immediately 
recall the funds and felt she had contacted it soon enough for it to do this. She brought the 
complaint to our service to consider. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Because 
Mrs S didnt accept this the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Could Wise have prevented the payment being made?
The Payment Services Regulations 2017, alongside Wises own terms and conditions, 
indicate that it should execute and authorise payment instructions without undue delay. And 
as a starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is on the 
payer, even where it mightve been made as part of a scam.
Theres no dispute in this case that Mrs S authorised the payments and so as a starting point 
this means shes liable for them. Ultimately, she is responsible for ensuring payments are 
genuine before she authorises them, which includes carrying out any reasonable checks 
around who she is paying. And Ive noted in this case that when Mrs S did carry out these 
checks, by carrying out an online search, she discovered the situation was likely a scam. 
Unfortunately she didnt carry out the checks until after the payment was made.
But, the relevant law and regulations  plus good industry practice and Wises own terms 
and conditions  suggest it has a duty of care to protect its customers against the risk of 
fraud and scams so far as reasonably possible. And if it reasonably ought to have identified 
a risk and failed to prevent a loss, I think it might reasonably be liable for this.
Mrs S has said Wise ought to have checked who she was paying and has indicated that it 
couldve found the negative reviews which made it clear the payment she was making was 
part of a scam. But I dont agree. 
Where Wise reasonably ought to have identified activity that might be an indication of fraud 
or a financial crime I think it does have a responsibility to do more to verify the transaction 
with its customer and satisfy itself as far as it can they arent at risk. But I dont think the 
payment Mrs S made reasonably ought to have appeared to be a risk to Wise. So I dont 
think it needed to do anything more than accept her genuine authorisation of it.
Mrs S appears to have opened an account with Wise for the sole purpose of sending this 
payment to the scammer. Its not unusual for customers to use Wise accounts solely for one 
off international payments. This is a large part of what its service exists for and, as Mrs S 
has said herself, the rates offered were competitive which is why she chose to use Wise. So 
I dont think her use of the account ought to have appeared significantly unusual to Wise. I 
also dont think the amount Mrs S sent was so significant it ought to have raised concerns. I 
think its in line with what a reasonable person might spend from time to time when paying 
for something like a holiday, which is what Mrs S thought she was doing.
Overall, I dont think this payment reasonably ought to have appeared to be an indication of 
a scam. So I think Wise has acted reasonably in following Mrs Ss payment instruction.
Did Wise act reasonably in trying to recover the money?
Mrs S has said she contacted Wise a few hours after she made the payment and thinks its 
unreasonable it was unable to stop it being made. Unfortunately, the money had already left 
her account. So it wasnt a case of Wise simply stopping or reversing it. It needed to contact 
the international bank which had already received the money and ask it to return it.
I think its reasonable to expect Wise made attempts to try and recover the funds, which I 
can see it did here. It contacted the international bank on 23 August 2021, three days after 
the payment was made, to ask for its return. The receiving bank responded on 14 
September 2021 to say funds couldnt be returned. 
International banks arent subject to the same regulations or obligations as UK banks are. 
When a payment is disputed or reported as fraudulent, they arent obliged to return this 
money or even respond. In this case it did respond but confirmed the money could not be 
returned and I wouldnt have expected Wise to do anything further. I dont think its likely this 
response wouldve been any different had Wise contacted it sooner than it did so overall I 
dont think the three days it took to contact the receiving bank has likely resulted in any loss.
Im sorry Mrs S has been the victim of a scam, I understand this has been difficult for her. 
But Wise isnt responsible for her loss, so I wont be asking it to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman