DRN-3021872
The complaint
Mr C complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money will not allow him to 
remove a third party from his account.
What happened
Mr C says he allowed a third party, I will call S, to have access to his account for budgeting 
purposes. But says he decided he didnt wish to continue with it. He says Virgin Moneys 
systems dontt allow him to remove the access and that it told him to contact S. Mr C says 
other banks allow removal and says Virgin Money should also do so. He says there could be 
security concerns.
Virgin Money says Mr C authorised the access and will need to contact S to remove it. It 
says its systems do not allow a customer in these circumstances to remove access.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Mr C agreed to allow S access to his account and he ought to contact it to remove it.
Mr C doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied Mr C authorised access to his account to S and that if he wishes to remove that 
access then he will need to contact S. Im also satisfied that Virgin Money has fairly 
explained that its systems do not allow a customer to remove access in these 
circumstances. And so, I think it would be pointless for me to recommend that Virgin Money 
remove Ss access where it would be unable to do so.
I make clear to Mr C that we are not Virgin Moneys regulator and so its not our role to order 
it change its business practice or order it to allow that type of account change that Mr C 
would like.
Overall, Im satisfied that Virgin Money has fairly explained to Mr C that its unable to make 
the account change he would like. In those circumstances I find Virgin Money hasnt made a 
mistake or acted unfairly and I cant comment on why other banks allow customers to 
remove such account access.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman