DRN-1705197
The complaint
This complaint is about a re-mortgage Mr and Mrs W arranged with HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Theyre unhappy with how long the transaction took, as it resulted in them paying the 
standard variable rate (SVR) on their previous mortgage after their fixed rate deal ended. 
HSBC had accepted some delays on the part of its solicitor, and has paid Mr and Mrs W 
£126.40 redress for the extra interest they incurred as a result. Its also compensated them 
£150 for their time and trouble. Mr and Mrs W believe the delay was longer than HSBC has 
admitted, such that they are due more.
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Mortgage underwriting isnt an exact science; nor is it a mechanical process. Lenders 
generally have anticipated timescales for how long an application might take, but 
occasionally things take longer than expected. If Im to order HSBC to pay Mr and Mrs W the 
compensation theyre seeking, I have to be satisfied that HSBC (or its agent) unduly and 
excessively delayed the application by way of specific errors or omissions. 
Looking at the overall progression of the case, it seems to me that for the most part, its one 
where the normal flow of the application was extended slightly whilst matters arising were 
dealt with. I say for the most part because HSBC has accepted that its solicitors did cause 
about ten days worth of unnecessary delays, and having reviewed everything, that looks a 
fair summation to me.  
I understand Mr and Mrs W feel strongly that the delays were longer than HSBC has 
conceded. In particular, they think the solicitors was in possession of their documentation 
much earlier than it has said. The difficulty with that is that theres little in the way of direct 
evidence one way or another. And I also have to factor in that not all of the information 
required of Mr and Mrs W was provided at the first instance.
When considering any complaint like this, as Mr and Mrs W are the ones bringing the 
complaint against HSBC, for me to uphold the complaint means Mr and Mrs Ws version of 
events needs to be more likely than HSBCs version. Having considered all of the available 
evidence, I cant conclude that Mr and Mrs Ws assertion of longer delays is any more than 
just as likely as HSBCs timeline. But just as likely isnt enough for me to make a further 
award.
Having considered everything that both parties have said and provided, Im not persuaded 
that a fair outcome requires HSBC to pay Mr and Mrs W more redress than it has already 
paid. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 January 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman