DRN-3638372
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained about HDI Global SEs refusal of a claim for 
business interruption cover under its Small Commercial/SME Package Cover insurance 
policy. 
Mr J, as director of T, has brought the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
T made a claim under its policy with HDI after it after it was affected by Covid-19 and the 
Governments response to the pandemic.  
HDI refused the claim, as it said cover can only be provided where a business has had to 
close following an occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises (a pub) and there was no 
evidence that was the case. 
Mr J is very unhappy about this. He says that a strict and literal interpretation of at the 
premises would produce an unfair result, and is not one that reflects the nature of Covid-19 
as a notifiable disease and a worldwide pandemic in which Covid-19 existed everywhere. 
But Mr J also says that in any case, Covid-19 was at the premises before it was required to 
close due the Governments restrictions. Mr J says two customers, an employee, a tenant 
and him and his father (who both also live at the premises) all had Covid-19 symptoms while 
at the premises before they were required to close.  
HDI reviewed the claim but said it had taken 11 months for T to provide any evidence of an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the premises and so questioned its credibility. HDI also said that, 
in any case, the evidence was not enough to establish the individuals in question had Covid-
19, or that they had it while at the premises. HDI also said that there would only be cover if 
the closure of the premises was a direct result of Covid-19 at the premises and not general 
measures to the country as a whole. As the pub was required to close as a result of the 
Governments response to the pandemic there is no cover under the policy. 
One of our Investigators looked into the matter. While not agreeing with all of HDIs 
arguments, he did not recommend that the complaint be upheld, as he was satisfied it was 
entitled to refuse the claim. He said the evidence provided didnt establish that the people 
mentioned had Covid-19.  
T does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business insurance policies offer protection from some of the common risks to a business, 
but different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if HDI has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ts claim.
The relevant part of Ts policy cover is an extension to the core business interruption cover, 
which covers losses: 
resulting from interruption or interference with the Business in consequence of
(1) Premises closure or restrictions
Closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable Human 
Disease occurring at the Premises.
The policy defines Notifiable Human Disease as:
An illness sustained by any person caused by
a. food or drink poisoning
b. any human infectious or contagious disease
an outbreak of which the competent local authority has stipulated shall be notified to
them.
On 23 March 2020, the Government announced that businesses such as T should close. Ive 
therefore considered whether T has shown its most likely there was a case at their premises 
before this date. Covid-19 is a notifiable disease. So for this extension to provide cover for 
the claim, the interruption to the business would need to be as a result of an occurrence of 
Covid-19 at the premises.
The Supreme Court in the test case said that an occurrence of Covid-19 happens when an 
individual becomes diagnosable with the disease. So in this case, there would have to have 
been someone diagnosable with Covid-19 at the premises at the relevant time. However, 
widespread self-testing wasnt available towards the start of the pandemic, and the 
Government advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms 
of Covid-19, save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce 
a positive test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a 
case on the premises would, in my view, be unfair.
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that there was an 
occurrence of Covid-19 at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance 
claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its 
suffered a loss its policy covers.
Mr J has provided evidence about four people he says were displaying Covid-19 symptoms 
and who had been at the premises, at the relevant time. I have no reason to doubt the 
veracity of the evidence provided and do not think it is significant that this was not provided 
earlier. Ive summarised the evidence provided below:
1. A customer who says he attended the pub most nights and was ill in February 2020, 
with a headache, fever and fatigue. He did not take a Covid-19 test and did not self-
isolate. 
2. Another customer who says he was at the pub on 13 March 2020 and was unwell 
from 13/14 March 2020 with fatigue, nausea, fever sweating, loss of appetite and dry throat. He did not take a Covid-19 test and no contemporaneous evidence of his 
illness or symptoms has been provided.  
3. An employee who says she was unwell from 12 March 2020 with fever, fatigue and a  
cough. She was at the pub between 9 and 12 March 2020. She completed an NHS 
self-isolation form on 16 March 2020.
4.A tenant of the pub who was unwell from 9 March 2020. The messages between the 
tenant and her mother and between the tenant and her work colleagues provided 
confirm that she was unwell between 9 and 11 March 2020. In the messages she 
says her sinuses were blocked, her glands swollen, she had a sore throat and was a 
bit hot. Ive also seen messages that support that she was unwell in early January 
2020, with similar symptoms. On 9 January 2020, she refers to having lost her sense 
of taste. Mr J says this was a clear symptom of Covid-19 and so supports that there 
was a case of Covid-19 at the premises before the Government restrictions were put 
in place. The tenant has also provided evidence of her absence from work in March 
2020, due to Covid- related symptoms. 
Mr J has also said he and his father were also unwell but no further information has been 
provided in respect of them. 
I have considered the evidence provided carefully. 
I have to bear in mind that most people who were unwell in March 2020, and before, didnt 
have Covid-19. And the symptoms referred to by all the people referred to above could have 
been symptoms of a number of other illnesses.
I do not consider there is enough evidence to say that it is more likely than not that the two 
customers or Mr J and his father had Covid-19 before the pub was required to close. I also 
note there is no documentary or other supporting evidence that the two customers had been 
at the premise on any particular date, so even if I were satisfied theyd established it was 
more likely than not that they had Covid-19, their evidence does not establish an occurrence 
of Covid-19 at the premises. 
Mr J has also provided evidence from an employee who was at the premises shortly before 
becoming unwell. However, again the symptoms referred to could have been a result of a 
number of illnesses. I do not consider this evidence to be enough to determine that it was 
more likely than not that she had Covid-19 at the time. 
Finally, Mr J is adamant that symptoms suffered by a tenant of the pub do establish that she 
had Covid-19. In particular he says she was unwell in early January 2020 and has provided 
a phone message from 9 January 2020 in which she refers to having lost her sense of taste. 
However, the first confirmed case of Covid-19 in the UK was not until 29 January 2020 and 
so I think, even with this symptom, it is unlikely she had Covid-19 on 9 January 2020. 
The symptoms the tenant had in March 2020 (sore throat, temperature and blocked sinuses) 
were also ones that are common to a number of illnesses. While they could have been 
symptoms of Covid-19, I am not persuaded there is enough evidence that it is most likely it 
was Covid-19.  
I recognise this isnt the outcome T was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require HDI to pay the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman