DRN-3650240
The complaint
Company C is unhappy that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) wouldnt
reimburse the money they lost due to an authorised push payment scam.
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at
length here. 
Briefly, in November 2020, C received an email from one of its suppliers asking for a 
payment to be made as per the invoice attached. The email requesting payment was 
received by Cs area manager who then forwarded it to their accounts payable department. 
C says that the accounts department had no reason to question the origin as both were 
recognised email addresses, the site address referred to was a site that C worked on 
regularly and the invoice was identical to those previously received. So, they went ahead 
and paid the invoice. But, unknown to C, the email had been intercepted at some point and 
payment details altered. 
It wasnt until a week later when the actual supplier contacted C for payment, it came to light
that C had fallen victim to a fraud. They immediately contacted their bank who in turn
contacted APS. Unfortunately, by that time the money had all been withdrawn from the
recipients account.
C would like APS to refund their loss. They feel that APS had not done enough to prevent
the fraud. APS said that all proper checks were carried out before the recipients account
was opened. Further, the transactions were in line with how the account had been used
previously and so the transactions were of no particular concern and werent considered as
suspicious. 
I issued a provisional decision (which forms part of this Decision). In summary I said:
Prior to the arrival of Cs funds, there wasnt anything unusual or out of character in the 
recipients account activities for APS to have intervened.
Once Cs funds arrived, they were quickly transferred from the account through multiple 
transactions. 
The first payment that left the account was for £1,500. The payment was a lot higher in 
value compared to the previous outgoings, but I dont think that in itself ought to have 
raised a concern to APS, as occasionally higher than usual payments could be made 
from an account. However, within a minute, another payment was made for the same 
amount (so another higher than usual payment), to another payee. I think taken together 
this was unusual activity in relation to that account. And it was on the back of an 
unusually high incoming payment. 
I consider that there was enough going on by this time that APS could and should 
reasonably have intervened and made additional checks with its customer before it 
processed the payments.
I cannot now be certain as to what would have happened had APS contacted its 
customer at that point. So, I will have to consider what more likely would have happened 
had it looked into this closely, contacted its customer and if they were reachable, asked 
all the right questions. I think that had APS contacted its customer and asked the 
appropriate questions including about the mismatch in the payees name, it is more likely 
that their customer wouldnt have responded plausibly or at all. This would have 
prompted further investigation and allowed time for the notification to be received by the 
sending bank, ultimately preventing these funds being fraudulently used.
I appreciate that APS needed to strike a balance in the extent to which it intervenes in 
payments, against the risk of unduly inconveniencing or delaying legitimate payment 
requests. I also acknowledge the main perpetrator here is the fraudster. However, for the 
reasons explained, I consider that APS could have done more here to help prevent the 
loss to C, but it failed to do so. Specifically, I consider that it ought to have intervened 
when the second payment was attempted.
Therefore, it is fair that it refunds the sum lost by C as a result - from that payment 
onwards. I work that out to be £13,162 (£14,662 less £1,500), less any sum already 
returned to C. I also consider that 8% simple interest should be added to compensate for 
C being without funds they otherwise would have had.
Ive considered whether C should bear some responsibility for their loss due to any 
contributory negligence. But in the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think they 
should. C was going about its business in the usual way, without knowledge or 
awareness of the fraud. When they received the intercepted email, there was nothing 
suspicious about the email and the request itself wasnt out of the ordinary. And they 
were expecting the request for payment. So, in the circumstances I dont think they acted 
unreasonably by making the payment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I remain of the view 
that that APS could have done more here to help prevent the loss to C and so it is fair that it 
refunds the sum as set out in my provisional decision.
In response to my provisional decision APS reiterated that in its view the due diligence 
carried out by C was inadequate for a business customer. I can understand why it considers 
so. However, as I said in my provisional decision, C had no knowledge that the email was 
intercepted, it was expecting the request for payment and there was nothing suspicious 
about the request. So, in the circumstances I dont think they acted unreasonably by making 
the payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, Advanced Payment Solutions 
Limited should pay £13,162 to C (less any money already returned), together with interest at 8% simple p.a. Interest should be paid from the date C or its bank first raised the fraud claim 
with APS until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman