DRN-3866103
The complaint
Miss B is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) have treated her in relation to 
a personal loan account.
What happened
The personal loan
In January 2019, Miss B took out a personal loan for £21,000. The term of the loan was for 
78 months and Miss B made repayments of around £390 a month towards the outstanding 
balance until 12 August 2020, when the account fell into arrears as Miss B stopped making 
repayments from this date.
Miss Bs bank statements in 2018 show she was receiving a regular income of around 
£6,000 each month until August 2018. In September 2018, Miss B received a payment of 
around £14,000 from the same company she received the regular monthly income from. 
Beyond this point, Miss B stopped receiving a regular income and says this was because 
she stopped working. Miss B says she took out this loan because she wasnt working, and 
she used around £11,000 of the £21,000 to settle an already existing loan she had with 
Barclays that she took out in 2016. The loan proceeds were then used to support Miss B 
financially while she wasnt working.
Miss B complains no affordability checks were carried out by Barclays at the time of the loan 
application and she feels she was enticed to take out the loan by Barclays advertising. Miss 
B says Barclays should have never given her this loan as she was vulnerable and unwell at 
the time and that Barclays were aware of her health and disabilities. 
Barclays say the application for the loan was completed through their mobile application. 
Barclays also say they would have presented responsible lending information such as 
highlighting the importance of being able to make the repayments, so they didnt think there 
was anything wrong with how the loan was being advertised. Barclays say they carried out 
standard checks at the time, such as assessing Miss Bs affordability, and they didnt find 
any reason not to grant her the loan based on the information completed within the 
application process. Lastly, Barclays say they werent made aware of Miss Bs disabilities 
until she told them during a telephone conversation on 25 November 2020.
Barclays have given us information to show the loan balance is currently around £17,000 
and that Miss B hasnt made any payments towards the loan since 12 August 2020. Barclays 
said there hasnt been collections activity on the loan while Miss Bs complaint is ongoing 
with our service. But I recognise Barclays have sent Miss B arrears notices as they said they 
were obliged to send these while the account is in arrears.
Our Investigator looked into this part of Miss Bs complaint and came to the conclusion that 
having looked at the amount of credit being borrowed, the length of the agreement, the 
amount being repaid each month as well as Miss Bs circumstances, she didnt think 
Barclays had carried out proportionate and reasonable checks. And had reasonable checks 
been done, Barclays would have seen that Miss B didnt have any income in the months 
prior to her getting the loan. Our Investigator said she thinks its likely this would have led to 
Barclays asking Miss B more questions and after having done this, she didnt think Barclays 
would have agreed to give Miss B this loan.
Customer service 
Miss B complains that Barclays havent treated her fairly. Miss B has given us a lot of detail 
about this and Ive summarised the key points.
Miss B said she told Barclays several times not to contact her by phone due to her health 
conditions and her disabilities, but they continued to contact her by phone to discuss her 
complaint as well as the outstanding payments for the loan. Miss B asked Barclays to 
contact her in writing, but she felt this request was ignored by them as they continued to 
phone her when they wanted to speak to her. 
Miss B says she had several conversations with Barclays in the presence of her carer and 
that she made Barclays aware that she was in ill health (both mentally and physically) but 
that Barclays ignored her. Miss B said she had an interview for a job, but the day before, she 
was put under so much pressure by a Barclays advisor that Miss B had a relapse in her 
physical and mental health and says she was hardly able to speak during her interview. Miss 
B said she had a panic attack and was unable to speak but that the advisor continued to ask 
her questions and ignored her ill health. Because of this, Miss B said she was put into 
therapy again by her doctor. Overall, Miss B said the difficulties Barclays have caused her 
have given considerable flashbacks and loss of sleep. Miss B said the stress caused by 
Barclays has contributed to her physical and mental health illness.
Barclays said when Miss B made them aware of her disabilities and health conditions in 
November 2020, she was referred to their specialist team who offer a service that tries to 
help vulnerable customers on an individual basis. Barclays said this team call customers, 
and they wouldnt usually send letters, even though they may have the ability to send letters 
and emails. Barclays apologised for the difficulties Miss B has experienced and they said 
their specialist team are there to help her. Barclays have also since told us that from 4 
January 2022, Miss B wont receive any calls or letters from their specialist team.
Barclays say there have been occasions where their specialist team have supported Miss B 
in the way theyd expect. On 25 November 2020, the specialist team spoke to Miss B about 
supporting her to make the repayments under the loan as she let them know she lost her 
contract at work which was causing her financial distress. The specialist team agreed a 
short-term plan for three months, as Miss B said she expected to be able to make her 
repayments again in February 2021. The next contact with Miss B was in March 2021, where 
she made the specialist team aware that her mental health was under control and that she 
was on medication. 
Miss B says Barclays have harassed her as they sent several letters letting her know that 
payments were outstanding on her personal loan. Miss B says they sent her a demand letter 
which she found to be threatening. Miss B has also said Barclays sent text messages to her 
which provided no information and this caused her distress. Barclays said the letters they 
sent to Miss B were regulatory arrears notices that they are obliged to send Miss B, so she is 
fully informed of the status of her loan account. Barclays also said they listened to three calls 
with Miss B  two made in August 2021 and one in September 2021 and they were satisfied 
the level of service provided was as they expected. But Mrs B said the advisors were 
unprofessional and that these calls caused her distress.
Miss B has also told us she contacted Barclays several times about her complaint, but they 
didnt respond to her. In fact, they told her they couldnt see a record of her complaint. Miss B feels Barclays have ignored her. Barclays said there was an error on their part and for 
some reason, Miss Bs letters werent scanned onto their system.  Barclays apologised for 
this and assured Miss B they werent ignoring her. Barclays also acknowledged it took them 
longer than it should have to resolve Miss Bs complaint. Therefore, in recognition of these 
errors, they offered Miss B £200 compensation which she didnt accept.
Our Investigator said she listened to the calls and didnt think Barclays had acted unfairly 
towards Miss B. She also recognised that while Miss B had told Barclays she didnt want to 
communicate via phone as this caused her distress, there was also evidence to suggest 
Miss B complained Barclays didnt call her back about her complaint. Overall, our 
Investigator didnt think Barclays were unhelpful nor harassed Miss B in their 
communications to her. However, our Investigator did think Barclays did do something wrong 
in not acknowledging Miss Bs complaint and the length of time it took to resolve her 
concerns.
What our Investigator recommended Barclays should do to put things right for Miss B
Overall, our Investigator upheld Miss Bs complaint. In relation to Miss Bs request to write off 
the outstanding amount for the loan, our Investigator didnt recommend Barclays do this as 
she felt Miss B had the benefit of the funds and that she used some of it to repay another 
loan early that she had with Barclays. Instead, our Investigator felt it was fair for Miss B to do 
an income and expenditure assessment with Barclays so they could get a better 
understanding of Miss Bs current financial situation. Our Investigator recommended this in 
line with The Money Advice Liaison Group (MALG) who published a report on how creditors 
should treat customers with debt and mental health problems where there is little likelihood 
of improvement and its highly unlikely theyll be able to repay their debts. Our Investigator 
also concluded that it was fair for Barclays to continue to report information about this loan 
on Miss Bs credit file.
Ultimately, our Investigator asked Barclays to:
Refund the interest and charges on the loan to Miss B. 
1) If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, 
Barclays should contact Miss B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for the 
outstanding balance. 
2) If an outstanding balance doesnt remain, remove any adverse information about 
this loan from Miss Bs credit file. And any credit remaining should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Miss B.
Pay 8% simple interest a year on any overpayments from the date they were made (if 
applicable) to the date of settlement.*
Pay Miss B the £200 compensation Barclays offered for the two errors they made.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must
give Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Barclays response to our Investigators view
Barclays responded and said while they dont agree the loan was given to Miss B 
irresponsibly, theyd be willing to refund all interest, charges and fees as recommended by 
our Investigator. And they agreed to carry out an income and expenditure assessment to 
develop a suitable plan with Miss B to repay the outstanding balance.Miss Bs response to our Investigators view and what she wants to resolve her 
complaint
Miss B disagreed with our Investigators view and doesnt feel our Investigator understood 
her complaint. Miss B has said shes been registered disabled as a result of Barclays 
actions and that she has been discriminated against as Barclays were forcing her to use a 
contact method they were aware caused her ill health. 
Miss B also detailed the stress that shes experiencing as a result of Barclays asking her to 
repay the loan.
Miss B set out that she wants Barclays to:
Remove information about the loan from her credit file.
Write off the outstanding amount for the loan and to put her back in a position she 
would have been in had she not been given the loan.
Not advertise loans to customers in future without carrying out their due diligence.
Ensure Miss B is dealt with by a specialist team given her health conditions and 
disabilities.
So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Miss B or Barclays 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made.
No discourtesy is intended by this as instead, Ive focused on what the key issues here. Our 
rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it, I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I decide is the right outcome.
Im sorry to read of the ill health and disabilities Miss B has told us about. I think its clear this 
situation has caused Miss B distress and has had an effect on her health. I empathise with 
Miss B and I can appreciate Miss B has been through a stressful time. 
When reading through Miss Bs complaint, there was some extra information I wanted, to be 
able to understand in more detail what happened. So, I asked Miss B for further information, 
but unfortunately, she didnt respond. As a result, Ive taken into account all the information I 
already had on file to reach my decision.
The personal loan
Our Investigator reached an outcome that the loan had been irresponsibly lent to Miss B  
and recommended all interest, charges and fees be refunded. Barclays agreed with this, and 
Ive seen nothing to suggest this would create an unfair outcome for either party, so in my 
opinion this is fair. I want to explore whether Barclays should go further in terms if theres 
anything more they should do for Miss B, which Ill go on to consider.
Miss Bs current financial situation seems to be conflicting. In June 2022, Barclays told us 
Miss B had around £20,000 in her current account, but Miss B has previously told us she hasnt been working. Either way though, its fair for me to say Miss B has had the benefit of 
the funds, as Ive seen she used at least part of this to repay her previous loan with 
Barclays.
At this moment in time, Barclays dont have an up-to-date picture of Miss Bs financial 
situation. This is because shes not completed an income and expenditure form with them. 
Generally, it wouldnt be fair to say Barclays should be required to write off a debt without 
understanding someones financial situation, and how things could alter in the future. And 
Ive seen nothing to persuade me it would be fair for them to do this in Miss Bs situation. So, 
I dont think itd be fair for them to write off Miss Bs debt, but I do feel the recommendation 
made by our Investigator of them carrying out an assessment of Miss Bs financial 
circumstances is fair. 
Barclays have told us Miss B is still being supported by their specialist team but that from 4 
January 2022, they agreed to not call or write to Miss B while were looking into her 
complaint. However, in order for Barclays to carry out an income and expenditure 
assessment with Miss B, they are going to have to contact her. From looking through the file, 
it seems Miss B is comfortable with speaking to Barclays when things are going well with her 
mental health and when theyre not, I think Miss B prefers to communicate in writing. So, I 
think Miss Bs communication preferences may change depending on her mental state and 
there may be times where she wants to speak to Barclays over the phone. So, with that in 
mind, I expect Barclays to work out if Miss B is able to have a phone conversation or if its 
better to communicate with her in writing to do this exercise  and to be able to switch 
between these two methods appropriately. Id also like to make clear its important for Miss B 
to engage with Barclays in this so theyre able to communicate in the right way with her.  
Loan Advertising
I understand Miss B has some concerns about how Barclays were advertising this loan on 
her mobile application and that she feels she was enticed into taking it out. While I havent 
seen what Miss B saw when she took out the loan, I dont think theres anything necessarily 
wrong with Barclays advertising the products they may have available to their customers. 
The important thing is then how Barclays go on to assess any applications made for the 
products they offer - which is what Ive addressed above.
Customer service 
From looking at the information available to me, I can see that there were times where things 
didnt happen as Miss B expected. It seems for some reason, Barclays missed Miss Bs 
complaint letters which then delayed a response to her. There was also an email that went 
unanswered which caused Miss B distress as she was chasing a response from Barclays. I 
can appreciate the upset this would have caused Miss B, especially as she wanted her 
complaint answered. For these reasons, I consider Barclays offer of £200 for the delay in 
responding to Miss Bs complaint as well as not responding to her complaint letters is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Miss B has provided us with copies of arrears notices she was sent in 2021 and also some 
from the beginning of 2022. I can see they let Miss B know shes in breach of the agreement 
and that she needed to pay the arrears that was outstanding on the account. Miss B says 
she found these to be harassing and threatening. Having read the letters, I can understand 
why Miss B has said this, but I dont think this was Barclays intention. Its important 
businesses make their customers aware of the amount outstanding on their account and that 
theyre required to make payments towards the balance. Miss B has said Barclays were aware of her health conditions prior to when they said they 
became aware of these in November 2020. And that they shouldnt have called her as shed 
previously told them not to. I havent seen any evidence to suggest Barclays were aware of 
Miss Bs health conditions before theyve said they were in November 2020. And I realise it 
was a difficult thing for Miss B to share with Barclays - it was important for Miss B to share 
this information with Barclays, to allow them to consider doing something different to support 
Miss B. Upon hearing this from Miss B, Barclays recognised she was vulnerable and then 
referred to her to their specialist team for a different type of support to be provided. I dont 
think Barclays could have done more at this stage as I think they acted fairly in referring Miss 
B to their specialist team. Miss B also told us it was in October 2021 where she was 
diagnosed with two other disabilities so I dont find it likely Barclays would have been aware 
of these earlier than when Miss B says she was diagnosed. Additionally, I couldnt see 
anything in the notes when Miss B was referred to the specialist team which indicated Miss 
Bs communication preferences. In fact, there seemed to be an early conversation on 25 
November 2020 with the specialist team about agreeing a short-term repayment plan for 
Miss B.
I understand Miss B says she feels shes been discriminated against as she asked Barclays 
to communicate with her in writing, but they continued to try and phone her. Often when a 
customer refers to being discriminated against in relation to protected characteristics, what 
they usually refer to is the Equality Act 2010. But I dont think thats what Miss B is referring 
to here, as far as I can see. Miss B feels processes arent being followed and that because 
of this, shes being discriminated against.
While I wont be addressing Miss Bs fraud complaint in this decision (as this has been 
considered under another case with our service), I think the call between Miss B and 
Barclays where Miss B made them aware about being scammed and that she wanted a 
refund for the transactions, is relevant to Miss Bs feelings of discrimination. I say this 
because from listening to the calls about the scam, I gathered that if there is a process in 
place Miss B expects it to be followed by Barclays  Miss B makes a comment that she 
expects theres a process in place to refund customers who have been victims of fraud. 
When the process isnt followed, Miss B feels its unfair and feels shes being discriminated 
against  like when Barclays later told Miss B theyre not able to give her an automatic 
refund for the fraudulent transactions. I can understand why Miss B feels this is unfair. 
Miss B also tells Barclays shes a vulnerable customer and that she expects them to take 
extra care with her and to do things differently - this is something Miss B makes Barclays 
aware of in some of the other calls she had with them about her complaint and also about 
the loan. I understand Miss B is a vulnerable consumer and we expect businesses like 
Barclays to take vulnerabilities into consideration. So, because of this, there may be times 
where Barclays have to change their approach or take a different route with a customer, 
which may differ from their usual process.
The earliest piece of evidence I have of Miss B telling Barclays she wants them to 
communicate with her in writing is during a call on 26 May 2021  Miss B called Barclays as 
she said theyd written to her asking her to call them about her account and that there wasnt 
an address on the letter for her to write to. Following this instance, Miss B called Barclays a 
few times - to discuss her complaint, the letters she received from Barclays and also the 
status of her account as she was unfortunately a victim a fraud. There was also a further call 
in September 2021 where Miss B says she was happy to receive a call back from Barclays. 
With this in mind, it seems to me there were times where Miss B was able to speak over the 
phone but also times when she wasnt able to and I think Barclays ought to have picked up 
on this.Overall, I think Barclays identified Miss B was vulnerable when she made them aware of her 
mental health conditions in November 2020. But I dont think Barclays got to grips with Miss 
Bs communication preferences changing at different points  as Ive mentioned, there were 
times where Miss B wanted to communicate with them on the phone and there were other 
times she wanted to communicate only in writing. While I dont think it was straightforward, I 
think Barclays should have done more to identify Miss Bs communication preferences at 
different times.
Going forward, I think Barclays should consider a flexible process in terms of their 
communication with Miss B. And as Ive explained, I expect Barclays to work out if Miss B is 
able to have a conversation or if its better to communicate with her in writing whenever they 
need to contact Miss B. However, I think working out the best communication method is the 
responsibility of both Miss B and Barclays. So, with that said, its important for Miss B to 
engage with Barclays when they need to communicate with her and that she helps them 
work out if its the right time for a call or if its best they communicate with her via letter. 
Putting things right
As explained above, I require Barclays to:
Refund the interest and charges on the loan to Miss B as previously agreed and 
remove any interest and charges going forward. 
3) If an outstanding balance remains once these adjustments have been made, 
Barclays should contact Miss B to arrange a suitable repayment plan for the 
outstanding balance, after carrying out an assessment of Miss Bs financial 
situation. 
4) If an outstanding balance doesnt remain, remove any adverse information about 
this loan from Miss Bs credit file. And any credit remaining should be treated as 
overpayments and returned to Miss B.
Pay 8% simple interest a year on any overpayments from the date they were made (if 
applicable) to the date of settlement.*
Pay Miss B the £200 compensation.
*If Barclays Bank UK PLC consider that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, they should tell Miss B how much theyve taken off. 
They should also provide Miss B with a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For reasons explained, I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to carry 
out the actions as set out in the putting things right section of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman