DRN-3633628
The complaint
Mr R has complained about an unfair contract term in a consumer contract and a wrongful 
termination/breach of contract by Cavendish Online Ltd (Cavendish) in relation to Venture 
Capital Trusts (VCT) he held on its platform. This led to Cavendish increasing its annual fee 
from £10 to £50 for renewal commission rebates.
What happened
Mr R used Cavendish as an execution only intermediary mostly in respect of VCTs. 
Cavendish charged an initial one-off arrangement fee of £35 per VCT to process the 
application. It received renewal (trail) commission from the product providers on those VCTs 
and for an annual charge of £10, it would rebate the remainder of the commission to Mr R 
via its Renewal Commission Service (RCS). 
In February 2021 Cavendish wrote to its customers to say that because of a reduction in 
renewal commission products plus changes in regulations and its own business, offering the 
RCS was no longer viable and it would stop providing the service from July 2021. It would 
also stop providing non-insurance related business such as VCTs from February 2021.
Mr R wrote to Cavendish not agreeing with its proposal but that if it did want to end the 
arrangement it should pay him all the renewal commission it would receive on his VCTs for 
their remaining terms (typically four years).
Cavendish then amended its position and said it would continue to provide the service but 
from August 2022 at an increased annual cost of £50 per VCT  up from £10 per VCT. 
It further explained that of the three VCTs still paying out trail commission on Mr Rs account, 
one, Baronsmead was due to make its final payment that August. For the two others, 
Octopus Titan and ProVen, the final payments for both were due in 2024/5. It said that as 
the ProVen trail commission would be around the same as the increased fee from 2022, it 
would refund the initial fee of £35 when Mr R had applied for the VCT. 
Mr R complained to Cavendish about this. It responded to his complaint on 16 March 2021 
which it didnt uphold. It said;
Its Terms and Conditions, which Mr R had agreed to, allowed it to increase the RCS 
fees providing it gave three months notice, which it had done. 
Cavendish had sold its investment operations in 2020 and the RCS was its only 
remaining investment business which wasnt proving viable  this was why it 
increased the costs, which was a fair representation of the additional cost it faced. It 
was the only way it could continue to offer RCS without it becoming lossmaking and 
an unsustainable service. 
It reiterated its comments about the refund of £35 for the ProVen VCT. 
Not happy with the outcome, Mr R brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. Our 
investigator who considered the complaint didnt think it should be upheld. She said;
Cavendish had acted in line with its terms and conditions and given Mr R sufficient 
notice of the increase in its fees.
She was satisfied that Cavendish had acted in line with its regulatory obligations and 
the law. 
Mr R was given the option of exiting from the arrangement free of charge.
Mr R didnt agree. He wasnt confident the investigator had taken account of all the 
representations he had made. After further correspondence with the investigator in which 
she outlined her reasoning in more detail, Mr R still didnt agree and made additional 
comment. 
Mr R requested that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing, so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator and broadly for the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
This services role is to decide whether a firm acted fairly and reasonably in the individual 
circumstances of a complaint. While its clear it would be for a court to decide whether a 
contract was formed, breached or how to remedy it  I consider it appropriate for me to have 
regard to the relevant law when considering what leads me to a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
In Cavendishs Terms and Conditions, it has a section entitled Renewal Commission 
Service which says;
Renewal commission is paid to Cavendish Online by investment and insurance 
companies based upon the value of your investments held with them. Under this 
service Cavendish Online will in no circumstances be liable to pay commission in 
excess of the commission received in respect of your plans registered with 
Cavendish Online.
Cavendish Online is not responsible for the amount of commission received, but will 
always endeavour to collect all renewal commission due in respect of the plans that 
you have registered with Cavendish Online.
We retain the right to alter our fees subject to three months notice to the client of our 
intention to do so.
Mr R has said the term is unfair. It allowed Cavendish to unilaterally vary the price charged 
for the same service without any limit and without any reference to the costs of providing the 
service. 
I should first say that Im satisfied that Cavendish gave sufficient notice. It wrote to clients in 
February 2021 with notice of its intentions which were to take effect in August 2021. 
Mr R had said that Cavendish hadnt made any reference to the costs of providing the 
service. But I disagree. In correspondence Cavendish explained that in 2020 it had sold its investment business. Prior to that its online investment operations adequately covered the 
costs incurred of the RCS which I note had stayed the same for 20 years. 
Cavendish said it was able to keep the fee so low because the underlying costs of 
administration, regulatory and insurance costs were shared across the whole of the 
investment platform. But since the sale of its investment business, the costs had to be fully 
borne by RCS. And that wasnt proving financially viable and wasnt sustainable. So, I dont 
find Cavendishs decision to increase the cost of providing the service to be unreasonable. A 
business wouldnt be expected to run a loss-making service. 
Mr R has said the costs of the RCS were foreseeable. At that time Mr R made his 
investments the business model Cavendish had in place meant the costs were shared 
across the whole of its investment business and were foreseeable based on that. But that 
changed when all of the other business operations were sold and inevitably the costs 
incurred in providing the remaining service would fall to the remaining business. And the 
increase suggests the cost of the RCS had historically been discounted by the other 
investment operations being in place. 
However, I accept this isnt Mr Rs responsibility or decision. He added his VCTs to 
Cavendishs platform based on the fees at the time. But Im satisfied that the terms make 
clear that those fees could be altered, and I dont think its unforeseeable that a business 
may change or adapt its role in the future  while that may have an impact on the consumer, 
it remains reasonable if the customer is treated fairly. 
Mr R has said that the term is unfair and contrary to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 which he 
quotes in his submission. Part of that term is whether it would be reasonable to assume that 
the customer would have agreed to the terms in contract negotiations. Mr R has said he 
would not have agreed if he had been aware this situation could arise whereby Cavendish 
keeps the commission. 
Ive considered the argument that the term of the contract could have unfair consequences, 
but as Cavendish has agreed to remedy that by allowing Mr R to exit free of charge, then 
any unfairness that could have arisen has been corrected. So I make no finding on Mr Rs 
comments about the Consumer Rights Act 2015 other than to say if I was to find that the 
term was unfair, then to resolve that I would suggest that the consumer be released from 
that contract/unfair term. 
However, I note that Cavendish has offered this in any event. It has said that there would be 
no exit costs if a customer was to transfer away from its platform. Mr R has highlighted that 
there are issues with finding other providers willing to provide the same service. And I note 
that Cavendish are aware this is an issue as it advised its customers to check with any 
potential new intermediary and the underlying product providers that that they would be 
allowed to transfer the commission from Cavendish as some did not allow this. 
I accept that Mr R has found himself in a very difficult position. He wants the same service 
he has always received but is having problems finding another platform that will provide that 
through no fault of his own. But that lack of service offered by other providers is not the 
responsibility of Cavendish. And I note that after responses from its customers, Cavendish 
reconsidered its position and would still offer the same service but at an increased  and in 
its view reasonable  price that reflects the cost of the service. I know Mr R strongly 
disagrees with this, but Cavendish has offered that as a compromise.
Clearly the renewal commission is based on the amount invested  the larger the holding the 
higher the level of renewal commission. So, Cavendishs new charges would impact on 
some customers more than others depending upon the size of the VCT held. For one of Mr Rs holdings  ProVen  Cavendish has recognised that the amount of renewal 
commission paid, would be less than the £50 annual charge. To address that it has repaid 
the initial fee of £35 for adding that holding to its platform. 
My understanding of Cavendishs charging structure is that for VCTs, the fees are two 
separate and distinct payments. One  £35  is for the cost of the initial take on of the 
holding and the other is for the ongoing costs of administering the RCS on an annual basis. 
For the ProVen holding Mr R has been reimbursed the initial take-on fee but for any on-
going rebates, the amount would be less than the cost of the service so nothing would be 
payable to him. So, the only option for Mr R would be to exit Cavendish and find another 
business offering the same service. Mr R has said this is unlikely. But I cant find Cavendish 
responsible for the services offered by other providers. 
Overall, while I have sympathy for the position that Mr R finds himself in, I cant agree that 
he hasnt been treated fairly and reasonably. Cavendishs terms and conditions allow for it to 
increase its fees, its given its reasons for doing so and within the time limits of those terms. 
In any event, Cavendish has offered to resolve the situation by allowing Mr R to leave its 
platform free of charge  effectively removing himself from the contract  which I dont think 
is an unreasonable resolution in the event that I found those terms were unfair.
I know Mr R will be disappointed with my decision. But I hope I have been able to explain 
how and why I have reached the decision I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman