DRN-3300705
The complaint
Mr C complains about the charges for excess mileage and an incomplete service history that 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, has 
made after he voluntarily terminated the hire purchase agreement under which a car had 
been supplied to him.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 January 2022 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
A used car was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-
Benz Finance that he signed in July 2014. The car had a price of £21,594, Mr C paid 
a deposit of £403.97 so the amount of credit was £21,190.03, and the total amount 
payable was shown on the agreement as £26,736.05. Mr C agreed to make 48 
monthly payments of £370.46 for the car to be supplied to him and an acceptance 
fee of £180. If he wanted to purchase the car at the end of the agreement hed have 
to pay an optional purchase payment of £8,275 and a purchase activation fee of £95. 
The car was about 16 months old and had been driven for 16,175 miles.
The agreement said that Mr C had the right to terminate the agreement and that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance would be entitled to the return of the car and half of the total 
amount payable under the agreement (which was shown on the agreement as being 
£13,368.03). Mr C voluntarily terminated the agreement in September 2017 and he 
was charged £2,449.98 for excess mileage because Mercedes-Benz Finance said 
that hed exceeded the mileage allowance by 22,685 miles and £345 for an 
incomplete service history. Mr C complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about the 
charges. He said that the annual mileage allowance should have been 15,500 and 
that the car had been serviced four times.
Mercedes-Benz Finance said that the contracted mileage allowance was 10,000 
miles per year and the obligation to pay an excess mileage charge if the return 
mileage exceeded the total mileage allowance was set out in the agreement. It also 
said that the provisions of the Consumer Credit Act permit it to include any over 
mileage when determining what isnt reasonable when the cars returned. It said that 
the mileage allowance had been recalculated on a pro-rata basis in line with the 
length of time that Mr C had had the car. It said that Mr C had exceeded the 
allowance of 32,500 miles by 22,685 miles and that the excess mileage charge of 
£2,449.98 had been raised correctly and remained payable. It said that the car was 
also overdue a service so Mr C had been charged £345 for an incomplete service 
history.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
The agreement says:
You have a right to end this agreement. To do so you should write to the 
person you make your payments to. We will then be entitled to the return of 
the goods and to half the total amount payable under the agreement, that is 
£13,368.03. If you have already paid at least this amount plus any overdue 
instalments and have taken reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to 
pay any more.
The agreement also says, under a heading which says Default Charges:
If you do not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle, an excess distance 
charge will be payable at the rate of 9.00 pence (plus VAT) for each Mile, by 
which the total distance travelled by the vehicle at the end of the period of hire 
exceeds the allowed distance, calculated at the rate of 10000 Miles per year 
(see Condition 12).
Condition 12 sets out more information about the excess mileage charge.
Sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act set out the right that a consumer 
has to voluntary terminate their hire purchase agreement and the liability that is due 
on termination. The terms of the agreement, including those relating to any excess 
mileage charges, are required to comply with those sections. Section 99 says:
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire 
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall 
be entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled 
or authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any 
liability under the agreement which has accrued before the termination .
So any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by the termination. 
If the excess mileage charge has accrued before the voluntarily termination of the 
agreement, I consider that it would be consistent with the provisions of section 99 for 
Mercedes-Benz Finance to make that charge to Mr C.
But I consider that the excess mileage charge accrues after the agreement has been 
terminated. The agreement says that the excess mileage charge applies  If you do 
not exercise your right to purchase the vehicle and the excess mileage charge is 
then calculated on the basis of the cars mileage after it has been returned  so it 
would only be known after the agreement had been terminated. For these reasons, I 
consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance cant charge for excess mileage in these 
circumstances under section 99.
Section 100 says:
(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement 
is terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the 
agreement provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any 
payment, to pay to the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the 
total price exceeds the aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in 
respect of the total price immediately before the termination 
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount 
specified in subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the 
creditor in consequence of the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for the payment of that sum in lieu of the 
amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the 
goods or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased 
by the sum required to recompense the creditor for that contravention .
Section 100(1) allows Mercedes-Benz Finance, in effect, to charge Mr C for half of 
the total price of the car under the agreement so, if hed already paid that amount, he 
wouldnt have to pay anything more. Section 100(4) allows for the amount to be 
increased if Mr C had failed to take reasonable care of the car.
Under the agreement, the requirement for compensation to be paid because the car 
isnt returned  in good condition, repair and working order  is separate from any 
requirement pay for excess mileage. Im not persuaded that exceeding a mileage 
limit would be considered to be failing to take reasonable care of the car or that any 
excess mileage charge would be included in the total price of the car. I dont consider 
that the provisions in the agreement that refer to excess mileage charges would 
reasonably be considered to be payable because Mr C had failed to take reasonable 
care of the car and I dont consider that Mercedes-Benz Finance can charge for 
excess mileage in these circumstances under section 100(4).
Section 173 of the Consumer Credit Act says that a term in an agreement is void to 
the extent that its inconsistent with a provision in the act. For the reasons that Ive 
set out above, I dont consider that the provisions of the agreement concerning 
excess mileage charges on a voluntary termination of the agreement are consistent 
with the protections of the Consumer Credit Act. I consider that those provisions are 
void to the extent that they relate to excess mileage charges when the agreement is 
voluntarily terminated.
Mr C has paid at least £13,368.03 to Mercedes-Benz Finance and I dont consider 
that its allowed to also charge him for excess mileage in these circumstances. Even 
if Im mistaken about this, I still consider that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld 
because the agreement isnt as clear about the excess mileage charges as it should 
have been.
I consider that an underlying lack of clarity in the agreement about the cost of 
voluntarily terminating it is also an important consideration as to whether its fair and 
reasonable for a charge for any excess mileage to be made in these circumstances. 
Ive considered the relevant provisions of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) including:
CONC 2.3.2 which says: A firm must explain the key features of a regulated 
credit agreement to enable the customer to make an informed choice as 
required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate explanations); and
CONC 4.2.5 which says:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred 
to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial situation; ...
(2) The matters referred to in (1)(a) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided 
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the 
amount can be determined, in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would 
have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the 
customer is unlikely to foresee.
Ive also considered principle 7 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Principles for 
Businesses which says: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
I dont consider that the hire purchase agreement is as clear as it should have been 
or that its consistent with the CONC provisions and the principles for business for the 
following reasons:
one section of the agreement sets out in a box headed Termination: Your 
rights specific wording that Mercedes-Benz Finance was required to include 
in the agreement which says, in effect, that if Mr C had paid at least half the 
total amount payable under the agreement, he wouldnt have to pay any more 
 and theres no further comment in that section about excess mileage 
charges;
the excess mileage charge is set out under a heading Default Charges but I 
dont consider that exceeding the contractual mileage would be a breach of 
contract as the contract specifically included a charge for exceeding that limit 
and I dont consider that excess mileage charges would be properly 
considered to be default charges;
condition 8 of the agreement deals with Early Termination by you but 
doesnt specifically refer to a charge for excess mileage if a customer should 
terminate the agreement early and return the car  but it does refer to another 
condition which deals with additional charges regarding the condition of the 
car;
condition 8 lists what Mr C would need to do and pay when terminating early 
and reiterates that he must comply with the terms of the statutory notice - 
one of which is that he wont need to pay more than £13,368.03;
condition 12 of the agreement refers to the calculation of an excess distance 
charge in circumstances where the car is returned  including early 
termination - but I consider that theres a lack of clarity in the agreement 
about Mr Cs liability if he voluntarily terminated it and I dont consider that the 
terms of the agreement are consistent with the provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Act;
condition 12 is not well signposted in respect of early termination, and only 
appears to be cross referenced in the section headed Default Charges;
the right to early terminate the agreement and the maximum liability for it are 
clearly set out on page 2 of the agreement in a bold box but the terms relating 
to charges for excess mileage, which might affect that liability on early 
termination, are not given equivalent prominence and I consider that theyre 
not clearly and consistently set out or referred to; and
condition 12 is included in the terms and conditions of the agreement and is 
not signposted in a way that would have naturally drawn Mr Cs attention to it 
if he was intending to return the car early.I consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement about excess mileage charges on 
voluntary termination could result in a significant adverse effect on Mr C in a way that 
he was unlikely to foresee. I dont consider that he was properly or adequately 
informed that an excess mileage charge would increase his liability beyond the 
£13,368.03 payable on voluntary termination of his agreement. I dont consider that 
Mercedes-Benz Finance has met its obligations under CONC 2.3.2 and CONC 4.2.5.
For reasons similar to those set out in the bullet points above, I dont consider that 
the agreement is clear, fair and not misleading - so I dont consider that Mercedes-
Benz Finance has complied with principle 7 of the Principles for Businesses. I 
consider that the lack of clarity in the agreement is likely to have prejudiced Mr C 
financially and I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance 
to charge him for excess mileage in these circumstances.
Mr Cs complaint included that the annual mileage allowance should have been 
15,500 and that he shouldnt have been charged for an incomplete service history 
because the car had been serviced four times. As I dont consider that its fair or 
reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge Mr C for excess mileage, I havent 
considered whether or not the annual mileage allowance should have been 15,500.
Mr C provided evidence to Mercedes-Benz Finance to show that the car had been 
serviced four times  in February 2014, before it was supplied to him, when its 
mileage was 12,181, in April 2015 when its mileage was 24,500, in March 2016 when 
its mileage was 35,180 and in December 2016 when its mileage was 52,732. 
Mercedes-Benz Finance said that the car needed to be serviced on the earlier of 
every twelve months and every 15,000 miles. The car was returned in September 
2017 when its mileage was recorded as 71,360. That was less than twelve months 
since the previous service but the car had been driven for 18,628 miles since that 
service and, as the car had been driven for more than 15,000 miles since it had been 
serviced, the car was overdue a service.
The vehicle return standards, which form part of the hire purchase agreement, say:
The vehicle must be serviced and maintained in accordance with Mercedes-
Benz published service intervals  Failure to fulfil this obligation may result in 
a charge to compensate us for the loss we will incur as a result of disposal of 
the vehicle.
As the car was overdue a service when Mr C voluntarily terminated the agreement, I 
consider that it was fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge him 
£345 for an incomplete service history.
I understand that Mr C hasnt paid the charge of £2,794.98 to Mercedes-Benz 
Finance. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to 
now remove the excess mileage charge of £2,449.98 from Mr Cs account  but Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to waive, or 
reduce, the £345 that its charged him for the incomplete service history. If Mercedes-
Benz Finance has recorded any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file relating to 
these charges, I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to remove that 
information.
I suggest that Mr C contacts Mercedes-Benz Finance to pay it the £345 for the 
incomplete service history  or to agree a repayment arrangement for that amount. If 
he doesnt do that, I consider it to be likely that Mercedes-Benz Finance will take further action against him, to the extent that its legally entitled to so, to recover that 
amount from him.
Subject to any further comments from Mr C or from Mercedes-Benz Finance my provisional 
decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. Mr C and Mercedes-Benz 
Finance have both accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mercedes-Benz Finance and Mr C have both accepted my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change the findings that I set out in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to take the actions 
described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint in part and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:
1. Remove the excess mileage charge from Mr Cs account.
2. Remove any adverse information about the charges that its recorded on Mr Cs 
credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman