DRN-3364261
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice Portal Financial Services LLP (Portal) gave to him in 2017 
to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He says the advice was unsuitable for him and 
believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Mr C has been helped by professional representatives to bring his complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Cs.
What happened
Prior to 2014 Mr C had been a deferred member of two separate DB schemes. In 2014 
Portal gave Mr C advice concerning a pension transfer from one of those DB schemes. As a 
result Portal arranged for Mr C to transfer the funds from one of his DB schemes to a SIPP. 
And Portal continued to give him financial advice following that. Portals involvement in that 
transfer is not the subject of this decision. 
In 2017 Portal gave Mr C further advice around his pension and retirement needs and 
whether it was in his best interests to transfer out of a second DB pension scheme he had 
stopped paying into in 2009. 
In April 2017 Portal completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances 
and objectives. It produced a pension transfer value analysis report and also carried out an 
assessment of his attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderately cautious. 
Portal prepared a suitability report which advised Mr C to transfer his pension benefits into a 
SIPP. The report said Mr C was 59 years old, employed and earning approximately £31,000 
a year, including a shift allowance. It noted Mr C was married, had a remaining mortgage on 
his home of £11,088 which he repaid at a cost of £308 a month. He also had a second 
mortgage of £15,660 which he repaid at £435 a month. 
Regarding Mr Cs DB scheme, the report recorded that:
Mr Cs fund had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £173,350. 
By transferring Mr C could release tax free cash of £43,337 
The DB scheme would pay Mr C a pension of £3,519 a year after taking a lump sum 
of £23,460. The critical yield (the growth rate required to match his DB benefits) was 
21.3%. 
Alternatively the DB scheme could pay an annual pension of £5,003, if Mr C did not 
take a lump sum; the critical yield to meet that figure was 44.1%. 
The required growth rate was 0.1%.
Portal said that the reason for its recommendation for Mr C to transfer his DB scheme 
benefits to a SIPP were because it would allow him to access his pension flexibly to pay for 
a holiday, repay debts and make home improvements. It added that it believed the 
recommended pension plan would deliver greater ongoing benefits than Mr Cs DB scheme. 
Mr C went ahead with the transfer which Portal completed in October 2017. At that time the 
CETV was £167,651 and Mr C received a lump sum TFC payment of £41,912.84
Mr C complained in October 2020 to Portal about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because, he said:
Its advice was negligent.
It didnt advise him he could lose benefits by transferring out of the DB scheme.
It didnt follow the regulators guidance.
Mr C was less than a year away from being able to take the guaranteed benefits from 
his DB scheme but Portal didnt explore that with him.
The suitability report contained incorrect figures as the final CETV was calculated 
after Portal produced its report.
Mr C would lose guaranteed death benefits for his wife by transferring out of the DB 
scheme.
It would be very difficult for the SIPP to achieve the critical yield of 21.3%.
Owing to the accessibility of the SIPP Mr C was in danger of drawing down too much 
money from it leaving him without enough income in retirement.
Mr C didnt have the required expertise or knowledge to fully appreciate the impact 
on him of transferring out of his DB scheme.
Mr C would have to pay fees for the SIPP. 
Mr Cs SIPP only had about £440 remaining.
Portal didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said, amongst other things:
It had informed Mr C of the recalculated CETV in July 2017 and he had confirmed he 
wanted to go ahead with the transfer.
Mr C had said that he didnt wish to buy an annuity, as such Portal had used the 
lifetime hurdle rate to calculate the growth rate required. It said the revised critical 
yield was 16.8% and the lifetime hurdle rate was 2.2%. It said that rate was 
achievable given that the recommended plan had a yearly return over the previous 
ten years of 7.12%
Mr C had agreed with Portal that his attitude to risk was moderately cautious.
Portal had set out the fees payable in its pension analysis report.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. One of our investigators upheld the complaint and 
required Portal to pay compensation, including a redress payment of £300 to address Mr Cs 
distress and inconvenience. The investigator said that Portal didnt explain that the hurdle 
rate had increased from 0.1% to 2.2% until it responded to Mr Cs complaint. Portal didn't 
have enough information about Mr Cs income requirements in retirement to make a 
recommendation to transfer. Portal didnt establish why Mr C wanted TFC or fully analyse 
how the DB transfer could meet his future pension needs. Also Portal didnt examine if Mr C 
could access further funds from the SIPP Portal arranged for him in 2014 and it didnt 
consider how Mr C had managed those funds. The investigator thought that Portals advice 
wasnt in Mr Cs best interests.
Portal disagreed, saying that it had acted in Mr Cs best interests. It felt that the 
recommended transfer in 2017 would improve Mr Cs investment position. It said his 
preference was for a drawdown pension rather than an annuity style income and its advice 
was tailored to Mr Cs preference. That would allow Mr C to access his funds flexibly and 
also to pay for home improvements, a holiday and pay off his mortgage. It noted that Mr C 
had income from other sources including state pension for himself and his wife, from a 
potential inheritance, from his current employers pension scheme and from his other pension 
plan. It said the revised critical yield was 16.8% but the hurdle rate was 1.3%. Portal used the hurdle rate as Mr C preferred a drawdown pension rather than an annuity and this figure 
was achievable. It said that it wasnt its fault that Mr C had chosen to spend most of his 
pension funds and most of Mr Cs withdrawals bypassed Portals advice process. It added 
that it couldnt predict that Mr C would spend his pension as he had. It believed its advice 
was suitable.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr C and Portal have made many points in bringing the complaint and in replying to it. 
And I've considered carefully everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to address 
each and every issue or point raised. Instead I will focus on the issues that are at the heart 
of Mr Cs complaint and the reasons for my decision.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given by 
the investigator. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), says in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, Portal should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Cs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having looked 
at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in Mr Cs best interests. Ill explain why.
Financial viability 
Portal gave its advice after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. The advice was given during the 
period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was publishing 'discount rates' on our 
website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was 
being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice 
on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been 
considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Mr Cs benefits at age 60 was 44.1% if he took a full 
pension and 16.8% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The relevant discount rate was 
2.3% per year for less than a year to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's 
upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Cs 
moderately cautious attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here, given the lowest 
critical yield was 16.8%, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the DB scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that 
attitude to risk.
Portal has provided cashflow models which it says show Mr C would have been able to meet 
his income needs despite the high critical yields. Ive considered these, and I note that Portal 
has discounted the critical yield and instead looked at the hurdle rate. But I don't think 
thats a fair comparison as the hurdle rate typically doesnt allow for fund or adviser charges, 
nor for increases in pension income over time, which is a guaranteed benefit from the DB 
scheme. The hurdle rate also doesn't consider the pension Mr Cs wife would have been 
entitled to in the event of his death or the fact that the DB schemes benefits were payable 
for the rest of Mr Cs life, no matter how long that was. 
Portals also said that given the past performance of the SIPP it would expect the funds 
invested in it to comfortably match the growth rates required. But, as Portal will 
acknowledge, past performance is no guarantee for future performance. So I consider the 
discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be more realistic in regard to the 
long-term likely growth, rather than projecting historic returns forward. In other words, the 
fact that the SIPP had performed well in the past didnt mean it would continue to do so in 
the future. The discount rate Ive quoted above would seem potentially achievable, but that 
would only match the guaranteed benefits of the DB scheme. And given the high critical yield 
I find it unlikely that the SIPP would exceed those benefits. 
Further, Portals cashflow models and assumptions are all based on Mr C taking TFC initially 
and then only drawing down further funds equivalent to his DB scheme benefits. But, as I set 
out under the heading of Flexibility and income needs below that seemed unlikely to have 
happened and as such Portals cash flow models werent very likely to be representative of 
Mr Cs situation. 
Its also worth noting that at the time portal wrote its suitability report the CETV figure had 
already expired and so wasnt guaranteed. So the figures and cashflow models the suitability 
report contained weren't accurate. I'm aware that Portal notified Mr C in July 2017 that the 
CETV and critical yield figures had changed and that Mr C confirmed he still wanted to go 
ahead with the transfer. But I can't see that it prepared a second suitability report with the 
accurate updated figures. Nor did it advise Mr C that the hurdle rate had increased from 
0.1% to 2.2%, a figure 22 times higher than the measure Portal was relying on. So Mr C 
didnt have all the information he needed in order to make a fully informed decision about 
whether or not the transfer was suitable for him. 
It follows that for the above reasons a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Mr Cs best 
interests. Of course financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, 
as Portal has argued in this case. There might be other considerations which mean a 
transfer is suitable, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
Portals said that it used the hurdle rate rather than the critical yield as it was in line with 
Mr Cs preference for a drawdown type pension rather than an annuity. That is, the SIPP 
would give Mr C the flexibility to take the cash from his pension pot as and when he wanted 
to. That might be the case but Portals role was to find out what Mr Cs wants and needs 
were and why. Its role wasnt simply to do what Mr C wanted without appropriate analysis 
and challenge of his motives for doing so with the implications of taking those actions with 
him. But Portals provided no evidence of such a challenge.
Portals recorded that Mr C wanted access to TFC as he intended to pay for a holiday, pay 
off debts and to make home improvements. But Portal hasn't established in its suitability report why any of those things was so important to Mr C that he could chance giving up the 
guaranteed benefits of his DB scheme for. Portal had carried out an assessment of Mr Cs 
spending and  from the answers he gave  noted that, after deducting his regular outgoings 
Mr C had a surplus of around £600 a month. And Mr C had recorded that he was not 
struggling to manage his finances. Further, Portal recorded that Mr C was due to have paid 
off his mortgage in three years time. And I can't see that Portal explored with Mr C why he 
felt he needed to give up the benefits of his DB scheme in order to release funds when he 
was meeting his financial obligations with some funds left over.
Similarly, Portals recorded that Mr C wanted to make home improvements. But I've seen no 
record it looked into what those home improvements were, what they would cost or why it 
was so important for Mr C to make them straightaway. At the time of Portals advice Mr C 
was 59 and had less than a year to go before he could have accessed the funds from his DB 
scheme. And, at that time, he could have taken TFC from his DB scheme of £23,460 while 
also receiving a guaranteed income that would increase each year for the rest of his life. But 
I can't see that Portal fully explored whether Mr C could defer making home improvements 
or paying off debts until he could access his full DB scheme benefits.
Similarly, as Portal was aware, Mr C had funds invested in a SIPP since 2014. But Portal 
didnt refer to the funds available from that and whether those could have funded Mr Cs 
desire to pay off his mortgage and other objectives. Mr C gave us copies of his pension 
statements from the SIPP following the 2014 transfer. And those show that, at the time that 
Portal provided its suitability report in April 2017, Mr C still had over £28,300 in his SIPP. So 
Mr C might have been able to use those funds for his short-term goals of repaying his 
mortgage etc. But there's simply no evidence that Portal discussed that possibility with Mr C.
So while having flexible access to his pension might have been desirable to Mr C I dont 
think he genuinely required flexibility to access the funds from his remaining deferred DB 
scheme. This is because I dont think he had a genuine need to access his TFC earlier than 
the normal scheme retirement age and leave his funds invested until a later date. In my 
view, he had alternative suitable means of meeting his immediate objectives either by taking 
his benefits from the DB scheme at its normal retirement age of 60 or accessing the 
remaining funds in his SIPP.
Further a brief look at Mr Cs existing SIPP statements show that he was regularly accessing 
the funds from it. In fact, he'd started with an opening balance of over £203,000 in 
April 2014. But, by the time Portal produced its suitability report in 2017 that fund value had 
fallen to around £28,000, as Mr C regularly drew down income from it. Indeed in the six 
months from November 2016 up to and including April 2017, when Portal produced its 
suitability report, Mr C withdrew a total of £36,000 (gross) from his SIPP. That is an average 
of £6,000 a month. And, since arranging the original DB transfer in 2014, Mr C had depleted 
that pension fund by somewhere in the region of £175,000. Its notable that Portal recorded 
in 2014 that Mr C s objectives from transferring out of his DB scheme was to pay off debts 
and make home improvements. But, despite having spent £175,000 from his transferred 
pension fund, it appeared hed only managed to reduce his debt burden by around £35,000 
and still didnt have enough to do all the required home improvements without accessing 
funds from another pension scheme. But I can't see that Portal asked Mr C why that was.
At the time Portal gave advice in 2017 it had been providing Mr C with an ongoing financial 
advice service, in order to manage the investments in his SIPP. So Portal should have been 
in a position to establish what the state of that fund was and how Mr C was accessing it. But 
theres no evidence that it considered this when it provided its advice and recommended 
Mr C to transfer funds from his second DB scheme to another SIPP. But I think Mr Cs level 
of withdrawals from his existing SIPP should have rung alarm bells for Portal. Portal should 
have realised that, if it advised Mr C to transfer his remaining DB benefits to a SIPP, then there was a possibility that Mr C would access those benefits in the same way that he had 
the funds from his previous transfer in 2014. 
So, at the very least, I would have expected Portal to establish why precisely, Mr C wanted 
to access the benefits from his remaining DB scheme in a similar manner. I would also have 
expected to see very clear advice from Portal that, if Mr C accessed funds from this DB 
scheme in the same way he was continuing to access funds from his existing pension plan, 
then it was extremely likely that Mr C would deplete his pension funds, from both DB 
schemes, long before he reached retirement age. And that meant that a recommendation to 
transfer out of the scheme was clearly not in Mr Cs best interests. But there's no evidence 
Portal made these risks apparent to Mr C.
Further, Portal said in its suitability report that it strongly believed that its recommendation 
to transfer was right for Mr C given his current situation and what he wanted to achieve in 
the future. But Portal should have been aware of  or found out that  Mr Cs current 
situation involved him depleting his pension fund by thousands of pounds most months. And 
that this could possibly have been a pattern of behaviour that would continue if Portal 
recommended another DB transfer. As such in order to give suitable advice, Portal needed 
to establish the essential facts about Mr Cs drawdown behaviour. And I think that process 
required Portal to have a frank discussion with Mr C about precisely what he wanted his DB 
pension funds for and to then give advice based on that knowledge. But Portal didnt do that. 
And without knowing the actual facts about what Mr C wanted the funds for and why his 
drawdown behaviour had continued as it had, I dont think it was in a position to provide 
advice that was clear, fair and not misleading. I certainly dont think that Portals advice to 
transfer the funds from his remaining DB scheme was in Mr Cs best interests. 
As I've said above Portal needed to do more than just transact what Mr C asked it to do. It 
should have analysed and challenged his motives for transferring out of his DB scheme, 
clearly setting out the implications of that action. But I've seen no evidence of such a 
challenge even though that was in Mr Cs best interests. And I dont think Portal met its 
obligations to challenge his objectives in light of what he would be giving up and of his 
drawdown behaviour with his existing fund. But theres simply no evidence it explored with 
Mr C why he'd accessed his previous pension pot in the way that he had. Neither had it 
found out if that was what he intended to do if he released further funds from his other DB 
scheme. Nor had it advised Mr C of the implications of his behaviour should it carry on in 
that manner. 
I acknowledge that Mr C is an adult and is entitled to withdraw his pension funds and spend 
them in whatever manner he deems fit. So, Portal isn't responsible for what Mr C did with his 
funds once they became available to him. But the regulators rules prevented Mr C from 
accessing DB scheme funds of over £30,000 without receiving regulated advice. And 
Portals role, as described above, in giving that advice was to determine what was in Mr Cs 
best interests.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr C about 
what was in his best interests for retirement planning. It knows valuable pension pots like 
Mr Cs DB scheme were paid into with the intention of providing for retirement. But Mr Cs 
chosen path was to give up that guaranteed income in retirement for the chance of having 
flexible access to the funds. But Portal didnt challenge Mr Cs requirements for that flexible 
access, nor did it question him on his drawdown behaviour and the implications of that. It 
simply accepted what he said about wanting to pay off debts  again  and wanting to make 
home improvements - again  rather than impressing on him the need for long-term 
planning. And without fully exploring and challenging Mr Cs objectives I don't think that 
Portal was in a position to make a recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. So I 
don't think Portal treated Mr C fairly.Summary
Portal wasnt there to just transact what Mr C might have thought he wanted. The advisers 
role was to really understand what Mr C needed and recommend what was in his best 
interests.
Ultimately, I dont think Portals advice to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, 
risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr C was very likely to be left without the 
funds he needed to be comfortable in retirement. So I think Portal shouldve advised Mr C to 
remain in his DB scheme and access his benefits at age 60, which was less than a year 
away.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr C would've gone ahead anyway, against Portal's 
advice. And having considered this very carefully, I'm not persuaded he would have done so. 
Thats because, over the previous three years Mr C had severely depleted the pension funds 
from the 2014 transfer. So, advice not to transfer should have included an explanation that, if 
that pattern continued, he was likely to be left in a very precarious financial position at the 
time he reached pension age. Portal could also have explained to Mr C that, rather than his 
funds being reinvested and so giving him an income in retirement, they were likely to be 
exhausted long before he reached his scheduled retirement age of 66. 
Clear, fair and not misleading advice would have demonstrated to Mr C that transferring from 
the DB scheme would likely leave him with a limited retirement income. An income that in all 
probability could see him with very little left over to cover off unexpected outgoings or 
anything in the way of luxuries. And I think advice of that nature, that painted a picture of a 
rather stark future, presented to him in a robust and unequivocal manner by professional 
financial advisers, would have been enough for him to think twice about his preferred course 
of action. It follows that I'm satisfied that If Portal had given Mr C clear and robust advice not 
to transfer from his DB scheme he wouldnt have done so. 
In light of the above, I think Portal should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. Further, as Portals 
actions have clearly been a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr C, I think its fair 
and reasonable that Portal pays him £300 in redress for that. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal Financial Services LLP to put Mr C, as far 
as possible, into the position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider 
Mr C would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if Portal had given suitable advice.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, while Mr C has largely used up all of the transferred funds he has not yet retired. I 
understand that his DB schemes normal retirement age would have been age 60, so, 
compensation should be based on Mr C having taken his TFC and income from the scheme 
at that age.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance of the decision.Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Cs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr C any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr C the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman