DRN-3506308
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) rescinded an 
offer to extend the term of his buy to let mortgage and apply a preferential interest rate. 
What happened
Mr C has an interest only buy to let mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. His fixed interest 
rate product was due to expire in October 2020. His broker recommended he apply for a 
term extension. Birmingham Midshires issued a mortgage offer, which Mr C accepted. It then 
said the offer wasnt valid. Mr C complains that:
It was unfair for Birmingham Midshires to rescind the offer, which he accepted within the 
time limit. He said he made decisions based on this offer.
Hes paying a higher interest rate due to being on Birmingham Midshires standard 
variable rate (SVR). He wasnt told his monthly payments had increased, until he 
received a call in January 2021 saying he was in arrears. 
Birmingham Midshires complaints team sent letters to the wrong address and took too 
long to deal with his complaint.
Our investigator said while Birmingham Midshires made errors the £300 compensation it 
offered was fair. Mr C provided a detailed explanation of why he didnt agree.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs interest rate product was due to expire on 31 October 2020. The mortgage term is 
due to expire in July 2022. Mr C took advice from a broker who recommended that he apply 
for a new product and to extend the mortgage term by six years. The broker made the 
application on Mr Cs behalf in September 2020. 
Birmingham Midshires made two errors at this point. As Mr C had less than two years 
remaining on his mortgage term its end of term team should have contacted him directly 
rather than allow an application via a broker to be processed. Second, it issued what 
appeared to be a mortgage offer for the new term and product. 
Ultimately though, neither of these errors changed the outcome. When Birmingham 
Midshires end of term team did get in contact with Mr C in early October 2020 it declined to 
offer a term extension to him. Theres nothing to suggest this would have been different if it 
had spoken to him in September 2020. 
Birmingham Midshires says it couldnt offer Mr C a new preferential interest rate product. It 
didnt have any products available that would have expired within the remaining term of his 
mortgage. It sent evidence to support this. This would have been the same if Birmingham 
Midshires had spoken to Mr C in September 2020.
Mr C says the error, which led him to believe the mortgage term would be extended, caused 
him problems. He says he delayed starting work on the property development that would 
otherwise have been completed and sold in late 2021. This would have provided funds to 
repay the mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. I dont think I can fairly find that any delays 
to the property development are solely or mainly due to Birmingham Midshires issuing what 
appeared to be an offer to extend Mr Cs mortgage term. Mr C was given correct information 
 that the term wouldnt be extended  within a couple of weeks. I dont think Birmingham 
Midshires is responsible if Mr C decided to delay the property development in the hope the 
complaints team would overturn this.
Mr C says he extended the tenants licence to late 2022, and will now have to give them 
formal notice to leave (presumably so that he can sell the property). I cant see that this will 
cause a financial loss. The mortgage term was due to end in July 2022, even if for a short 
period Mr C expected it to be extended.
Mr Cs monthly payments increased after his preferential interest rate expired. Birmingham 
Midshires was entitled to apply its SVR in accordance with the mortgage terms and 
conditions. Its unfortunate that the remaining mortgage term meant no products were 
available, and I can understand if Mr C is frustrated by this. However, from November 2020 
there was no ERC, and Mr C could have looked into re-mortgaging elsewhere if better rates 
were available. 
Mr C says he first contacted Birmingham Midshires in March 2020, and it told him to contact 
a broker. Mr C questions why Birmingham Midshires required him to use a broker in March 
2020, and then said hed need to deal with it directly in October 2020. Birmingham 
Midshires says it has a different process when a mortgage is within two years of its maturity 
date  which happened here in July 2020. I dont think this was an error. 
Mr C says the broker is part of Birmingham Midshires, or acted as its agent. I havent seen 
evidence that this was the case. Mr C appointed the broker. 
Birmingham Midshires says it wrote to Mr C when his fixed rate product expired. Mr C says 
he didnt receive the letter and didnt know his monthly payments had increased. 
Its unfortunate that Mr C didnt receive the letter confirming the new monthly payments, but 
theres nothing to suggest this was due to an error by Birmingham Midshires. Mr C was 
aware that his preferential interest rate product had expired and the higher standard variable 
rate would be applied. In fact, the higher monthly payments was part of the complaint he 
raised in October 2020. If Mr C didnt receive the letter confirming the amount of his monthly 
payments, he could have contacted Birmingham Midshires about this.
Mr C was unhappy with the way Birmingham Midshires dealt with his complaint. Complaint 
handling isnt itself a regulated activity, which means it isnt something we can look into. 
Birmingham Midshires complaints team sent two letters to the wrong address. Birmingham 
Midshires says this was due to human error. Mr C says his neighbour passed the letters to 
him. While Mr C says this could have resulted in mis-use of his personal information, theres 
no evidence this was the case. 
For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think Mr C suffered a financial loss due to an 
error by Birmingham Midshires. But he was caused inconvenience and upset. He received 
what appeared to be an offer to extend the term and apply a new preferential interest rate 
product. While this was quickly corrected, it must have been disappointing. And letters 
containing personal information were sent to the wrong address. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Birmingham Midshires to offer a term extension, or a product that Mr C 
didnt meet its criteria for. But I do think its right that it pays compensation.
Birmingham Midshires offered £300 compensation for sending post to the wrong address 
and Mr Cs disappointment when he was told it couldnt offer a new product or term 
extension. I think, in the circumstances, this is fair and reasonable.
Birmingham Midshires says Mr C can contact its end of term team again, to check if he 
meets its criteria. The term of Mr Cs mortgage is due to expire soon and I would urge him to 
contact Birmingham Midshires, to explore his options.
Mr C says the offer of the new product and term extension, which he accepted, is legally 
binding. Whether a contract is legally binding is a matter for a court. Mr C says he might take 
the matter to court. If he doesnt accept my decision then he will be free to do so.
My final decision
My decision is that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Birmingham Midshires) should pay £300 
to Mr C, if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman