DRN-1512816
The complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI). 
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out in 1998. Lloyds said the PPI wasnt 
mis-sold, but refunded some of the commission and profit share it received. 
Our adjudicator thought this was a fair offer. Mr C disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold for the following reasons.
Mr C indicated on his mortgage application form that he wanted PPI, and completed a 
separate application form for it. So, I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take 
out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand if he cant remember 
this.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have 
had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking 
out the cover. 
This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C. But Lloyds 
has paid back some cost of the PPI to Mr C because it got a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. 
Because Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair. To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said. But these points dont change my decision.My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman