DRN-3908644
The complaint
Mr E complains Bank of Scotland plc wrongly advised him hed be able to extend the term of
his interest only mortgage.
What happened
In 2008 Mr E took out an interest only mortgage of around £520,000 with Bank of Scotland 
plc (BoS) for a term of 15 years. The term is due to end in August 2023.
Mr E understood from conversations he had with BoS in 2019, 2020 and 2021 that hed be 
able to extend the term of his mortgage until around the age of 70 when he planned to retire 
provided he met their lending criteria. They included reducing the ratio of the interest only 
borrowing to the value of the property (LTV) to a maximum of 50%. 
Mr E says he based his financial planning around what he was told. But when he started an 
application to extend the term in November 2021, BoS said he could only do so if he 
switched to capital repayment terms. That was unaffordable.
Mr E thought BoS had misled him. He said if hed known at the outset his plan to extend on 
interest only terms wouldnt be possible, hed have made alternative arrangements. Given he 
was over 60 years of age in 2021, his options were more limited.
Mr E complained. BoS apologised for any confusion theyd caused Mr E. They said he 
couldnt have applied for a term extension in 2019 due to the time left on the term. Their 
policies change from time to time. And until Mr E had made a formal application, they 
couldnt have guaranteed it would have been successful in any event.
Since Mr E was unhappy with BoSs response, he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He thought BoS ought to have considered if 
extending the term of the mortgage was in Mr Es best interests. Even though he didnt think 
it was, he felt BoS should pay Mr E compensation of £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience theyd caused him. 
BoS agreed. But since Mr E didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed 
to me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties time to consider what Ive said. Although 
Ive come to broadly the same outcome as our investigator about how to put things right, my 
reasons are different.
I appreciate Mr Es concerns about his current situation. I understand hed like to remain in 
his property for as long as he can as he has family and friends close by. And hes concerned 
his options for doing so may be limited now. He thinks if BoS had given him correct 
information he could either have re-mortgaged to a new product and extended the term with 
BoS or looked for another lender. Since he was under 60 years of age in 2019 he thinks he 
would have had more options than might be available now hes older.
As I currently understand things, when Mr E was speaking to BoS in 2019 and 2020, their 
policy for extending interest only mortgages, where the repayment strategy was the sale of 
the mortgaged property, required an income of over £100,000 a year, equity of at least 
£300,000 and an LTV of no more than 50%. But when Mr E was within two years of his 
mortgage term ending, the policy no longer applied.
Ive listened to calls Mr E had with BoS in June 2019, November 2019, September 2020 and 
November 2021. BoS havent located all the calls Mr E remembers having. But I think Ive 
heard enough to understand what happened and come to a decision thats fair and 
reasonable.
In June 2019 BoS explained it wasnt possible for Mr E to extend the mortgage term. Since 
his repayment strategy was to sell his property, hed need to reduce the LTV to 50%. BoS 
said he could apply again at the end of the term but warned a successful application then 
would depend on whether his repayment plan was acceptable at the time. I think BoS could 
have explained more clearly what they meant by that and whether, for example, their policy 
was different depending on when an application was made or could change later. But Mr Es 
said that based on those discussions, he decided to sell the property - which was already on 
the market - as had always been his plan; and take the fixed interest rate product BoS 
offered until the end of October 2021 to reduce his contractual monthly payments (CMP). 
In November 2019 Mr E asked for clarification about his options going forward following the 
discussions hed had in June. He was considering the best way of reducing the mortgage to 
enable him to qualify for a term extension. He was debating whether to use a tax-free 
pension lump sum he would have available around nine months later and, in the meantime, 
increase his monthly payments.
BoS confirmed if Mr E reduced his interest only borrowing to 50% LTV by making a lump 
sum payment, the term could be extended if he met all the criteria. But it would need to end 
before his planned retirement at the age of 70. Mr E says he understood then that if he met 
the criteria the mortgage adviser had explained, he could extend the term. I think that was 
reasonable based on what BoS told him.
Mr E said his strategy for repaying the mortgage changed at that point. He decided to wait 
before making an application on the basis the value of his property was likely to increase 
and the amount hed need to reduce the capital by would go down. He says he began 
tracking every six to twelve months how much hed need to pay to reduce the LTV to 50%.Mr E spoke to BoS again in September 2020. He was unable to pay his mortgage at the 
time. Unfortunately, he was out of work due to the coronavirus pandemic. Hed had two 
payment deferrals and was requesting an extension while he looked for work. Mr E asked 
about the criteria for extending the mortgage to age 70; he explained what hed been told 
previously and that hed been planning on that basis; he asked for reassurance BoS wouldnt 
ask him to leave in three years time when the term ended; and he raised the possibility of 
taking in lodgers to help with mortgage payments.
BoS said theyd look for him to repay the mortgage in the shortest possible time depending 
on what was affordable for him. And they couldnt consider his options until he was back in 
work. But that was mentioned in the middle of a lengthy discussion. Although BoS didnt 
confirm whether the policy still applied, or whether it was likely to be available later in the 
term, I think it was reasonable for Mr E to think nothing had changed. Id expect BoSs teams 
to be joined up about the information they give customers about what options might be 
available to them at different stages of the mortgage term. Again, I think BoS could have 
made the position clearer for him.
The call Mr E had with BoS in October 2021 isnt available. Mr E says he rang to discuss 
extending the term. But the application didnt go ahead then, and Mr E was to call back. Mr E 
next approached BoS in November 2021 when his fixed rate product had come to an end.
He was told hed need to extend the term to be eligible for a new product. He had less than 
two years remaining, and the shortest fixed rate product ran for two years. BoS didnt give 
the impression it wouldnt be possible to extend the term to accommodate a new product 
and provided details of the rates and terms involved. He was referred to BoSs end of term 
team to discuss his options.
I can understand why Mr E was disappointed when BoS told him then that extending the 
term on an interest only basis wasnt possible. BoS explained that since he was within two 
years of his mortgage term ending, the only option for a term extension would be by 
converting to repayment terms. It was obvious that would be unaffordable without looking 
into his income and expenditure in detail.
Mr E says he delayed making an application until the value of the property had increased 
and the amount hed need to pay to get the LTV to 50% had reduced to around £30,000. He 
says if hed known sooner the policy would no longer apply to him, he would have applied 
earlier or re-mortgaged elsewhere. Ive considered whether Mr E would have been able to 
do either of those things, if so, at what point and whether he would have succeeded. And 
Ive thought about whether BoS treated him fairly.
Mr E didnt meet BoSs criteria in June or November 2019. He said hed have funds available 
in around August 2020. By then hed been out of work since March 2020. Since he had no 
income, he didnt meet BoSs policy at the time. It wasnt until March 2021 that Mr E had 
brought his account up to date following a nil payment arrangement for October to 
December 2020. I dont think Mr E was in a position to consider an application until March 
2021 at the earliest.
It's possible that if Mr E had made an application to BoS between March and August 2021 - 
before the term remaining fell below two years - it would have succeeded. Its unclear if Mr E 
had funds available to reduce the LTV at the time. He had other loans. And hes mentioned 
he used the pension lump sum for other things. But even if he had, I cant say for certain his 
application would have succeeded. Even if he was able to show he met the policy 
conditions, BoS would have required a full application and their full lending criteria to be met.
Its too speculative to say that would have happened. And Mr Es acknowledged the success 
of any application wasnt guaranteed.BoS didnt consider an application to extend the term on an interest only basis. But Ive 
thought about whether, if he had applied at any stage, it would have been fair for them to 
decline it on the basis of their policy.
Mr E took out his mortgage in 2008. And, as far as Im aware, he hasnt taken on any 
additional borrowing. Under the relevant mortgage rules, BoS could consider extending the 
term on an interest only basis - even if the affordability rules and those about using the 
mortgaged property as the repayment vehicle werent met - if it was in Mr Es best interests 
to do so. BoS arent required to do that but, if they didnt, and they declined the application 
on those grounds, we might consider theyd treated him unfairly.
Even though Mr E would like to remain in his property and has plans about how hed pay the 
mortgage, that doesnt mean it would be in his best interests. Hed pay additional interest 
over a longer period making it more expensive for him overall. And hed still have to sell at 
the end of the term. By then house prices may have affected the equity available to buy an 
alternative property, his financial situation could change as he approaches retirement and 
his borrowing options could be more limited. On balance, I dont think it would be in Mr Es 
best interests to delay what is the inevitable sale of his property to pay the mortgage back.
In any event, Id need to be fair to both parties. BoS are entitled to be repaid at the end of 
the term. Id expect them to allow Mr E time to sell if he hasnt managed to do so when the 
term ends next year and to treat him fairly if he finds himself in financial difficulties. I note 
theyve already said theyd allow an additional six months to allow time for a sale to go 
through. But Mr E will need to take steps to market the property within a reasonable time 
before the term ends.
Its possible Mr E would have applied for a mortgage with alternative lenders between 
November 2019, when his strategy changed, and March 2020 before he was out of work, or 
from March 2021 onwards. I cant be sure an application would have succeeded. Since he 
would have been applying for a new mortgage, the relevant mortgage rules may have 
prevented another lender from offering him a mortgage on interest only terms given the sale 
of the property was the planned repayment strategy. And he may not have met their lending 
criteria. Its too speculative to say hes missed out on an extended term with other lenders.
I dont currently think Mr E has been disadvantaged as a result of the information BoS gave 
him. But I do think they should have explained things more clearly and managed his 
expectations about what they might be able to agree at the end of the term. And I think its 
fair they compensate him for the disappointment he suffered when BoS explained their 
position in November 2021. I think the £300 compensation BoS have agreed to pay is fair in 
the circumstances. Whilst I understand this isnt the outcome Mr E was hoping for, I intend to 
direct BoS to pay £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience to put things right.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that BoS should pay Mr E compensation of £300 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Developments
Both parties made comments in response to my provisional decision which Ill summarise.
Mr Es provided income and pension information between March 2018 and today. As I 
understand it, he says this shows he met the financial criteria to apply to remortgage in 
2019, 2020 and 2021. And hes noted he was told by BoS they accepted sale of the property 
as an acceptable repayment strategy. Mr E says he was happy to take the two year fixed interest rate product in 2019 as BoS had 
reassured him hed be able to remortgage with them after that to a part interest/part 
repayment mortgage that would have taken him to the age of 70. He says BoS repeated that 
information three times between 2019 and 2021. If hed known he wouldnt be able to 
remortgage, he could have shopped around for other loans.
Mr E says he never intended to repay the mortgage and always planned to sell the property. 
He considers that when he chooses to sell and other decisions he makes depend on 
changes that happen in his life and arent relevant to the issues in his complaint. 
BoS said the colleagues who Mr E spoke to about extending the term would not have been 
aware their policy would differ when the term had two years remaining as that would be dealt 
with by their specialist end of term team. They said they paid the compensation of £300 to 
Mr E in October 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Es strength of feeling about his complaint. But I havent changed my mind 
about the outcome, as Ill explain.
Ive considered the financial information Mr Es provided. Whilst it appears to show his 
income was the right level to meet BoSs income requirements for most of the time from 
March 2018 onwards, there were periods of unemployment, including between March and 
October 2020 and March and July 2021. Mr E moved a significant lump sum into a pension 
scheme in 2019, but he doesnt explain if funds were available to reduce the LTV. 
In any event, even if BoS had considered an application from Mr E to extend the term in 
June 2019, and hed met their financial criteria then, I cant be certain it would have 
succeeded. It may have been declined for other reasons. So, its too speculative to reach 
any conclusions about that.
Ive acknowledged BoS could have given Mr E clearer information in June 2019 about his 
options later on. Mr E says he would have looked at alternative lenders if hed known he 
wouldnt be able to extend on the terms hed hoped for later. 
I note BoSs point that the colleagues who Mr E spoke to about extending the term would not 
have been aware their policy would differ when the term had two years remaining as that 
would be dealt with by their specialist end of term team. I still think BoS ought to have been 
able to give Mr E clearer information about what might happen at term end. But BoS didnt 
give him any guarantees in June 2019 it would be possible to extend the mortgage term on 
the part interest only/part repayment terms Mr E thought would be available. 
As Ive mentioned, the mortgage rules may have prevented an application to another lender 
succeeding where the repayment strategy was the sale of the property. Even if Mr E had 
applied to other lenders at the time, an application could have failed for other reasons. Its 
too speculative to reach any conclusions about what is likely to have happened and whether 
Mr E would have found a suitable alternative lender.
By November 2019, Mr E was tied into the two-year fixed term interest product. He may 
have chosen to come out of that deal if hed understood then he wouldnt be able to apply to 
extend the term of his BoS mortgage later on the terms hed hoped for. But, again, I cant be 
sure an application for a new mortgage with another lender would have succeeded. I havent seen any new evidence that persuades me an application by Mr E to BoS before 
the remaining term of his mortgage fell below two years is likely to have succeeded. The 
income information hes sent recently suggests he wasnt earning anything between March 
and July 2021 so that might have hindered an application during that period. Even if Im 
wrong about that, once again its not possible to say what the outcome of an application 
might have been. 
I appreciate Mr E would like to stay in his property for as long as he can and that his plans 
may have changed over time. Hes said he didnt plan to repay the mortgage. But the terms 
of his mortgage require him to repay it at the end of the term. His repayment strategy has 
always been to sell the property and, by implication, to use the proceeds of sale to pay the 
mortgage off. So, unless BoS agree to extend the term, or he can get a new mortgage with 
them or another lender, he will need to sell the property. 
I understand Mr E will be disappointed, but I havent seen any new evidence that persuades 
me to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I uphold his complaint in 
part and think its fair that BoS pay compensation of £300 to put things right. Since theyve 
already paid that sum, I dont require them to do anything further.
Putting things right
We recommended BoS pay Mr E £300 compensation. Since they paid it in October 2022, 
they dont need to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Es complaint in part. The £300 Bank of Scotland plc have paid Mr E as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience is enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman