DRN-4238509
The complaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont reimburse the money he says he lost to a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2021 Mr E made a series of payments
from his Lloyds account. At the time he believed he was settling invoices from a building firm
N. Hed contracted with N (who had been recommended to him by an architect) to do work
at his home. The payments were made between July and August 2021 and totalled around
£50,000. The payments were all paid into an account in the name of Ns director that was
also held with Lloyds.
In October 2021 Mr E concluded hed been the victim of a scam  he reported this to Lloyds
and to the police. Ultimately Lloyds said they were unable to recover or return any funds.
They considered this to be a civil dispute between Mr E and N, they also said they had no
concerns about the beneficiary account. Mr E complained and when Lloyds maintained their
position, he referred his complaint to our service.
One of our Investigators didnt recommend it should be upheld. In summary she thought the
conclusion Lloyds had reached was reasonable. Mr E disagreed and asked for an
Ombudsman to review his complaint.
In June 2023 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to reach the same overall outcome as our Investigator. But as
Im providing some additional reasoning, Im issuing this provisional decision to give
everyone a further opportunity to comment. Im also aware of a linked complaint that Mrs E
(Mr Es wife) has against another bank. But this decision is solely in relation to Lloyds
actions.
It isnt in dispute that Mr E authorised the payments that left his account. But he alleges that
he has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam and that Ns intent from
the start was to deceive him.
Lloyds are also a signatory to the voluntary CRM Code. This is a scheme through which
victims of APP fraud can sometimes receive reimbursement from the banks involved. But the
CRM code does not apply to private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a
legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they are
defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
So, I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly, when concluding that this amounted to a
civil dispute and not a scam. Im intending to find that they did, and Ill explain why.
Whilst I can quite understand why Mr E feels that N has scammed him, there is a high legal
threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or
failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing
loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). And there are a
number of potential reasons (other than a scam) for the breakdown in a relationship between
two parties and for a dispute to exist.
Of particular relevance to this are the pictures that Mr E has provided. These show building
work in progress. Parts of walls have been knocked through and I can see that some blocks
have been laid. There also appears to be a trench dug (presumably for foundations). I
acknowledge Mr E says the work was done poorly or incorrectly, but that isnt, in itself,
evidence of this being a scam. There is also some evidence of materials and a skip having
been delivered to the site as well as an excavator.
Im also mindful that N are a limited company, registered on Companies House and that
invoices which included reasons for each payment were provided. I also understand there
was a contract drawn up for the works and that the quote received by Mr E was in line with
similar quotes received. Often, where the intention is to be dishonest from the start, then a
quote will be very competitive to secure the work.
The payments which include those made from Mrs Es account, took place between May
and August 2021 (around three and a half months in total). Mr E says he had to make
payments for materials due to extended lead times as a result of Brexit and Covid. And they
continued to do so as they didnt want to delay progress. He says that when N was
challenged about the whereabouts of those materials, he was told these were stored in a
lock up to prevent theft. Whilst these do seem like plausible reasons for delays, there was
presumably enough work done to reassure Mr E sufficiently to make further payments.
Mr E told Lloyds that N had been recommended by a legitimate architect who had vouched
for the builder. Further to this, evidence on the linked complaint show that that banks
investigation notes also record that Mr E had said the building inspector advises that the
builder has completed some jobs, and nearly finished others, and he cannot understand why
this happened to this job. This doesnt support that N were operating a scam, rather that
something seems to have gone wrong and that this was a private civil dispute between Mr
and Mrs E and N.
Ultimately there is insufficient evidence to persuade me that the conclusion Lloyds reached
was unfair or unreasonable. I appreciate that the police are investigating the director of N
and there are said to be other customers of N who are in a similar position. But based on all
the information Ive seen to date, I dont think Lloyds decision to treat this as a civil dispute
was unfair or unreasonable. Its entirely possible that N had overcommitted in the work
theyd taken on and had been unable to complete all the work theyd agreed. And whilst this
would clearly be unacceptable to Mr E, this doesnt mean that it meets the bar to be
considered a scam where its required for the intention to have been to deceive from the
start.
Mr E has said that he thinks Lloyds failed to intervene in the payments at the times they
were made and to provide suitable warnings. But given that Im supportive of Lloyds
decision to conclude this is a civil dispute, there isnt any basis upon which they ought to
have intervened in the payments. Lloyds have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams, but
there is no obligation for them to intervene in authorised payments unless there is a fraud,
scam or the misappropriation of funds. So, I cant fairly criticise Lloyds for not having done
more in these circumstances.Once Lloyds were made aware of Mr Es allegations about the payments hed made, I can
see that they contacted their accountholder. The accountholder provided their explanation of
the situation. This is what Id expect them to do in these circumstances and I dont think
Lloyds deciding that this was a civil dispute was unfair nor unreasonable. And given that
finding, I also dont think there were any failings by Lloyds as a receiving bank (within the
context of our services jurisdiction) which would have impacted on the position Mr E finds
himself in.
Im of course sorry to hear of the difficult situation in which Mr E finds himself. But as I dont
think Lloyds have acted unfairly, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct that
they need to do more to resolve this complaint.
Lloyds responded and said they had nothing further to add. Mr E didnt respond to my 
provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further evidence or comments for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman