DRN-3277641
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way Society of Lloyds dealt with a claim he made under his 
commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P made a claim for damage to his van under his commercial vehicle insurance policy in 
May 2021.
In June 2021 Mr P complained about the delay in repairs and said the alternative 
replacement vehicle offered was too small.  
In August 2021 Lloyds said there was a delay in obtaining the required part to complete 
repairs to Mr Ps van. But it said this was outside of the garages control. It said when the 
part arrived at the garage on 14 July 2021, Mr Ps van was promptly repaired and available 
on 16 July 2021. 
Lloyds said it had provided a replacement vehicle in line with the terms of the policy which 
wasnt like for like. Lloyds agreed it would look to source a larger vehicle if possible. And it 
said the policy excludes cover for loss of use, which Mr P wanted to claim for.
Our Investigator didnt recommend Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She thought Lloyds 
had acted fairly and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr P didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps policy with Lloyds sets out what type of vehicle it will provide for the duration of 
repairs. It says;
Repairs 
Where using our approved repairer for the repair of your vehicle, and your vehicle 
does not exceed 3.5 tonne gross vehicle weight our approved repairer will:
Supply you with a courtesy car for the duration of the vehicle repair or until your 
policy expires, whichever is sooner (where the vehicle is covered comprehensively)
Lloyds defines a courtesy car in the policy as;
Courtesy car- a Group B (small standard private car) or PV1 (small car-derived van 
or similar) vehicle loaned to you by our approved repairer whilst the insured vehicle is 
being repaired after a valid claim under 
Section 2 of this insurance.
Note: A courtesy car is intended to keep you mobile. It is not necessarily a like for like 
replacement of your vehicle. All courtesy cars are subject to the driver meeting the 
terms and conditions of hire from the approved repairer.
As Lloyds provided Mr P with a replacement vehicle in line with the policy, I dont think it 
acted unreasonably. 
Lloyds notes show that the garage received most of the parts to repair Mr Ps van in June 
2021. But one of the parts didnt arrive until 14 July 2021. The garage chased regularly for 
the remaining part but availability was an issue as a result of the impact of Covid 19. 
I understand Mr P was unhappy with the delay. But I cant say that this was due to Lloyds 
providing a poor service to him. I understand Mr P was frustrated and worried as he wanted 
his van back to carry out his work. But I think Lloyds provided Mr P with the cover as set out 
under the policy he bought with it. And I cant hold it responsible for delays outside of its 
control. 
Mr Ps policy with Lloyds doesnt provide cover for loss of earnings which he intended to 
claim for.
The policy specifically excludes this as it says;
This section of your insurance does not cover the following.
2. Any amount as compensation for you not being able to use your vehicle (including 
the cost of hiring another vehicle).
Under the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) it says; 
What is not insured
Compensation for not being able to use your vehicle.
I understand Mr P will be very disappointed with my decision. But based on what Ive seen, I 
dont think Lloyds has acted unreasonably. So Im not asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman