DRN-4091156
The complaint
Mr A and Miss H complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with their claim for 
damage following an escape of water at their home. 
Any reference to QIC includes its agents. 
The home insurance policy is in joint names but, for ease of reading, Ill refer only to Mr A 
throughout my decision. 
What happened
Mr A has home insurance with QIC. The policy ran from September 2021. The policy is 
designed to provide cover for loss or damage to the property, caused by fire, smoke, 
explosion, lightning, earthquake, flood, storm, escape of water, theft and falling objects, 
amongst other things.
A number of roof tiles had become dislodged following a storm and so Mr A submitted a 
claim to QIC. 
Following a survey the insurer declined the claim since the damage was gradual and so not 
covered by the terms of the policy. 
Mr A requested a copy of the survey which said part of the claim detailed a recommended 
settlement value. And when he raised this with QIC it rejected it. Mr A isnt happy since he 
would have been unaware of the recommended settlement value had he not requested a 
copy of the survey. 
Mr A says he had to arrange the repairs himself and wants QIC to financially compensate 
him with the recommended settlement value of the claim in accordance with the terms of the 
policy. So he complained to QIC. 
QIC said the claim was considered under the storm section of the policy. It said it was 
satisfied there were storm conditions at the time of the incident. QIC said the surveyor 
confirmed cover for the damage sustained to the rear hip and this was referred for a 
technical review. Following the review QIC said there was no cover for any element of the 
claim. QIC said this was because the photos show areas of new mortar where maintenance 
has been carried out. But the affected areas appear to be areas that were not maintained 
and show evidence of perished mortar. And so it said the gradual or maintenance related 
exclusion applied. QIC maintained the claim was correctly declined. It apologised for 
incorrectly advising him part of the claim would be considered and offered £100 to reflect 
this. 
Mr A wasnt happy with the response from QIC and so he referred his claim to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for him. She upheld the complaint and said based on the 
evidence she thought it more likely than not the storm was the main cause of the damage. 
She said QIC unreasonably declined the claim and so it should settle the claim for the rear 
hip damage and pan tiles, plus 8% simple interest, together with £100 compensation. 
QIC didnt agree. It said the images show there was insufficient remaining mortar on the tiles 
and so the storm couldnt be said to be the cause, since it would expect to see some 
remaining mortar on the tile itself. 
Because QIC didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we consider storm damage we consider three main issues;
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
It is only if the answer to all three questions is yes that we can say the damage was most 
likely caused by a storm. I need then to go on and consider whether the exclusion for wear 
and tear/gradual cause applies. 
1. Were there storm conditions?
There is no dispute that there were storm conditions around the time of the damage. QIC 
have accepted this. Wind speeds were in excess of 70mph. So its clear this condition 
was met. 
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
The damage here is the ripping off of some tiles. I think that is consistent with the 
damage caused by strong winds, and the surveyor also agrees part of the damage was 
due to the storm. The issue to decide is whether the condition of the roof was the main 
cause of damage, or whether the wind caused it. 
3.Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
The scale referred to in the policy describes the sort of weather that happened here as, 
a period of violent weather. I think the weather was well capable of causing damage to 
a roof, even a well maintained one. Such strength of wind is extremely rare in the UK. 
The policy itself says, properties are designed to withstand all but the most extreme weather 
conditions. I think its fair to say hurricane force winds come under the definition of extreme 
weather. 
The surveyors report says he, noted all the hip tiles had slipped as the front hip is 
protruding over the hip iron. We consider this to indicate the mortar bedding has failed. And 
so the front of the property cant be considered under the terms of the policy. And I think 
thats reasonable.
I have considered the report carefully. It says, we are of the opinion the damage to the rear 
hip ridge can be considered. Whilst there is some evidence of perishing to the pointing at the 
edges of the ridge tiles, the mortar appears to be largely intact and there is mortar residue 
remaining on some of the ridge tiles. The report goes on to say, we are therefore satisfied 
that the damage to the rear hip ridge is the result of an insured event. Similarly due to these tiles being dislodged, we have also validated the damage to the pan tiles on the rear roof 
which have been impacted by the falling ridge tiles.
The information in the report is detailed and Im persuaded by what it says. In light of the 
devastating nature of the weather immediately prior to the incident Im inclined to think the 
roof might have had a few years of life left in it, but for the storm. So, on balance, I think its 
more likely than not, that the damage to the rear roof was caused by the storm. I also 
havent seen any firm evidence the experts report is incorrect. 
Turning to the exclusion, I dont think QIC has shown that this damage happened gradually 
or was due to wear and tear. 
Putting things right
My conclusion is that QIC must cover the damage to the rear roof. 
It should;  
pay Mr As cost of repairing the rear hip ridge and the damage to the pan tiles on the 
rear roof. 
Add 8% simple interest from when Mr A discharged the invoice to the date UKI pays 
the settlement. 
QIC has already offered Mr A £100 to apologise for the misinformation provided so it 
should pay this if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint for the reasons detailed above. I direct 
QIC Europe Ltd to settle the complaint as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and X to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman