DRN-1337144
 
The complaint
Mrs F has complained about a loan granted to her by MYJAR Limited (MyJar or the 
lender). Mrs F says that was struggling to manage her existing finances and MyJar should 
have known this and not agreed to lend to her.
What happened
MyJar agreed one loan for Mrs F for £925 in March 2019. It was to be repaid over six 
months with a monthly repayment of about  £276.
Our adjudicator already looked into Mrs Fs complaint and didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He explained that MyJar had gathered enough information to reasonably assess 
whether Mrs F could meet her repayments in a sustainable manner. He found that MyJar 
hadnt irresponsibly lent on this occasion because it seemed from the information gathered 
that Mrs F would be able to repay her loan without difficulty. 
Mrs F didnt agree with this recommendation and so the complaint has come to me, as an 
ombudsman, for review and final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice  on our website. Ive followed that approach here. 
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator when Mrs F took out her loan. The 
relevant rules and guidance set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook said that before 
lending MyJar needed to take reasonable steps to check that she could afford to meet her 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant Mrs F being able to meet her repayments 
out of her normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks MyJar needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mrs F would be able to meet her repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that the 
same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Fs complaint. Having done so I am not upholding 
her complaint. I appreciate that this will be disappointing for her and I hope my explanation 
below makes it clear why Ive come to this conclusion.  
MyJar says it asked Mrs F for information about her regular income and expenses when she 
applied for a loan. The lender recorded her monthly income as £1,875 and her monthly 
mortgage, credit and other expenses together as £310. MyJar said that it used a Minimum 
Income Standard to estimate expenses where the figures declared were below this 
threshold. It also said that it gathered some information about Mrs Fs existing credit 
commitments through a third-party credit reference agency, and it provided the results of its 
checks. These showed that Mrs F was paying an estimated monthly amount of £225 towards 
unsecured debt, that shed increased her balances a couple of times but hadnt taken on any 
new credit in the last few months. 
I think the assessment MyJar carried out here was in proportion to the circumstances. In
Mrs Fs case, she took out one loan to be repaid in instalments. So she didnt have a 
previous borrowing relationship with MyJar that the lender ought to have taken into account. 
The loan repayments didnt take up such a significant proportion of her monthly income that 
this alone might render the lending irresponsible. And it seems from the information Mrs F 
gave MyJar that she had enough disposable income to meet her loan repayments each 
month. 
MyJar said that it didnt find anything in its checks to suggest that it ought to have looked 
further into Mrs Fs financial situation before agreeing to lend to her and, from what Ive 
seen, that seems to be the case. So I cant say that MyJar ought to have done more to 
assess the affordability of the loan for her.
I understand from what Mrs F has told this Service that she was not in a good position 
financially when she applied to MyJar for a loan and shes provided some supporting 
information for this. Mrs F says that she had unsecured loans of an amount that far 
exceeded what MyJars checks showed. And that she had defaults and late payments on 
many loans, including her mortgage. 
I have borne in mind that the information someone might see when they request a copy of 
their credit file might be different to that seen by a lender. A lender might only see a small 
portion of the credit file or some data might be missing or anonymised. The data might not 
be up to date, or the lender may not have requested all of the available data from the credit 
reference agency. So, this may explain any differences between the information MyJar 
received from its credit check and the information Mrs F says it should have seen. In some 
cases I might think that a lender ought to have taken steps to understand the full extent of a 
borrowers financial situation, but as Ive explained above I think MyJar carried out 
proportionate checks here. 
I dont doubt that things have not been easy for Mrs F and Im sorry to hear of her difficulties. 
I can understand why she feels MyJar shouldnt have agreed to lend to her at this time. However, as Ive explained, I dont think it did anything wrong by agreeing this loan for her in 
the circumstances of this case. And so I cant uphold her complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Fs complaint and I dont make any 
award against MYJAR Limited.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman