DRN-3077009
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Advanced Asset Consultants Ltd (AAC) stopped servicing activities 
on her personal pension plan without making her aware it had done so. As a result she has 
paid servicing charges without receiving any on-going advice, and Mrs H says her pension 
investments have suffered from under-performance.  
What happened
This complaint is closely linked to a complaint brought by Mrs Hs husband that I am also 
deciding. Both their pension investments were managed by AAC. And although the 
underlying investments were different, it seems they were managed by AAC in joint 
meetings with both Mr and Mrs H acting on each others behalf in discussions with AAC. 
Since the two pension plans were held in sole names it is right that I deal with the issues as 
separate complaints. But given what I have said above I am sure that Mr and Mrs H, and 
AAC, will understand why my decisions on the two complaints are broadly similar. In this 
decision however I will only deal with Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H had a long-standing relationship with AAC. It had been providing her with advice and 
servicing on her pension investments since around 2010. It appears that their relationship 
was placed under some strain in September 2016 when problems were faced in liquidating 
some ISA funds to allow Mr and Mrs H to proceed with a property purchase. Those issues 
dont form part of this complaint, and so I will not deal with them here. But they appear to 
have been the catalyst for the issues I am dealing with.
In October 2016 Mrs Hs advisor at AAC noted that the firm should stop taking on-going 
advice charges in relation to Mrs Hs investments. But it seems that the firm failed to 
implement that instruction and the on-going charges continued to be collected. And due to 
the breakdown of the relationship it doesnt seem that there was any on-going proactive 
contact from AAC to Mrs H to discuss the performance of her pension investments, or any 
changes to her circumstances.
In June 2019 Mr H, on behalf of Mrs H and himself, made contact with AAC and complained 
about its lack of servicing on their pension investments. The management of Mrs Hs 
pension investments was ultimately transferred to another provider later that year.
AAC considered Mrs Hs complaint. It agreed that it had failed to do work to justify the 
servicing fees it had taken since the problems in 2016. So it offered to refund all those fees 
and pay Mrs H £250 for the trouble and upset shed been caused. Mrs H indicated she 
would accept the refund of the fees but thought that AAC should pay further compensation 
both to reflect the trouble and upset shed been caused, but more importantly the losses she 
said she had suffered through her pension investments not being actively serviced for three 
years.
Mrs H brought her complaint to this Service, and it has been considered by one of our 
investigators. She thought that the offer AAC had made to Mrs H was fair and reasonably 
reflected the losses shed suffered. She didnt think that Mrs H had lost out on investment 
returns in the period between 2016 and 2019. So she didnt think AAC needed to do 
anything more than the offer it had already made to Mrs H.
Mrs H didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs H and by AAC. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
It seems clear that there was a serious breakdown in the relationship between AAC and 
Mrs H in the latter part of 2016. From AACs notes it appears that in the previous years it had 
regularly guided Mrs H on the changes that she might make to her pension investments to 
reflect market conditions. Those discussions appeared to have ceased following the 
problems in 2016.
AAC says that its intention was to stop taking the on-going servicing charges from Mrs H 
from October 2016. So I think that would explain why it failed to make contact with her about 
her pension investments after that date. But I think the absence of those on-going 
discussions would have also been clear to Mrs H. It doesnt seem that she got in touch with 
AAC until June 2019 to enquire about what was happening with her pension investments. So 
I think Mrs H must share some responsibility for what happened in those intervening years.
AAC has already agreed that it should refund the on-going servicing fees that it took from 
Mrs H after October 2016. My understanding is that those fees would have been taken from 
the cash that Mrs H held in her pension. So Im not persuaded that Mrs H has suffered any 
investment losses from those fees having been taken. I think a simple refund of the fees 
would be sufficient to compensate her for the fees she has paid when not receiving an 
appropriate level of servicing from AAC.
It seems to me that the majority of Mrs Hs pension investments were of a long-term nature. 
So although AAC might have not discussed those investments with Mrs H between 2016 
and 2019 I havent seen anything that persuades me that she has lost out as a result. 
I havent seen any indication that her attitude to risk is likely to have altered over that time, 
and so a different investment strategy might have been indicated. On balance I think that Mrs Hs pension investments would most likely have remained relatively stable over that 
period even if shed reviewed them more regularly with the assistance and guidance of AAC.
So, to summarise, I dont agree with Mrs H that she has lost out on investment returns as a 
result of not receiving advice from AAC since 2016. But it seems entirely right that any 
charges AAC has taken should be refunded. And I think AACs offer of £250 for the trouble 
and upset Mrs H has been caused is in line with my expectations. It isnt clear to me whether 
AAC has paid that compensation to Mrs H, so I think it should now do so.  
Putting things right
Unless it has already done so, AAC should do the following;
Refund any advice charges it has received from Mrs Hs pension investments since 
October 2016. 
The compensation should be paid into Mrs H's pension plan. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If AAC is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs H's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs H's expected marginal rate of 
tax at her selected retirement age. I expect Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer 
so the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mrs H would 
have been able to take an additional tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
Pay the sum of £250 direct to Mrs H in recognition of the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused to her.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold a part of Mrs Hs complaint and direct Advanced Asset 
Consultants Ltd to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021. 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman