DRN-1962480
 
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Sanlam Investments UK Limited failed to provide her with the Ongoing 
Advice Service it was charging her for.
What happened
Mrs B moved her investment ISA to Sanlam in 2014. She opted for its Ongoing Advice 
Service, at an annual cost of 1% deducted from the value of her investments, in return for 
which she'd have regular reviews of her investment, along with other benefits. 
In 2019, she complained to Sanlam that she hadn't received the level of service she'd been 
expecting. Sanlam responded, setting out details of the contact and meetings that had been 
held with Mrs B since she'd moved her investment. But it noted that there appeared to have 
been a failure to carry out a review in 2018, so it offered to refund a proportion of its charges 
to cover the period in question - £131.44.
Mrs B didn't accept the offer and referred the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the matter and concluded that there'd been three more years - 2015, 2017 and 
2019 - where there was little evidence that Sanlam had provided Mrs B with a review. He 
recommended that the charges relating to these additional years also be refunded, plus the 
return that would've been earned on the money (including for 2018), as it would otherwise 
have remained invested. The investigator also felt that Sanlam should pay Mrs B £200 for 
the inconvenience she'd experienced.
Sanlam didn't agree. It maintained that its records showed that there'd been regular contact 
with Mrs B, except for 2018. 
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change his opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
According to Sanlam's documentation the Ongoing Advice Service is intended to provide:
Access to a financial adviser with expertise
Regular investment reviews where this has been agreed with your adviser
The associated administration of your investments
Valuation statements and investment performance updates
The continued governance and oversight of the investment manager and regulatory 
environment (where Sanlam Model Portfolio has been selected)
 In its final response to Mrs B Sanlam set out what its records showed in respect of contact 
with her for the period in question. It said that in 2015 a meeting was booked for February 
and just before this the adviser spoke with Mrs B, providing contact details for if she had any 
queries. For 2016 an annual review meeting with the same adviser was completed in July 
2016. In 2017 a new adviser carried out a review meeting in November. And in March 2019 
another adviser spoke with Mrs B and answered all her concerns regarding performance of 
her portfolio and lack of contact, but she declined an offer of a review.
Mrs B strongly and quite plausibly denies that much of this happened. And where it did, she 
says it wasn't quite as Sanlam has indicated - for instance, phone calls rather than face to 
face meetings. 
In light of this difference of views, I've looked at the documentary evidence to help determine 
what, on balance, is most likely to have happened. And in doing so, I find there's very little to 
support Sanlam's version of events.
Mrs B was paying for a defined, ongoing service and I think it's reasonable to expect there to 
be comprehensive records of precisely what was provided to her in return for the costs 
associated with that service. For instance, an annual report, or at least clear notes explaining 
why that hadn't happened and what alternatives had been discussed with Mrs B. Looking at 
the description of the Ongoing Advice Service set out in the bullet points above, I don't think 
Sanlam has been able to demonstrate that it provided a service to Mrs B that met with that 
description.
So, in the absence of a more formal recording of what service was provided to Mrs B I find 
I'm persuaded, on balance, by her recollections and therefore feel it wasn't reasonable for 
Sanlam to deduct the charges from her investment for the years in which it isn't clear she 
received the service. 
Putting things right
Sanlam must refund to Mrs B the costs for the Ongoing Advice Service relating to 2015, 
2017 and 2019 (and 2018 if it has not already been paid), plus the sums those amounts 
would've earned had they remained invested. This sum should also be calculated and paid 
for the 2018 refund. In addition, Sanlam must pay Mrs B £200 for the inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Sanlam 
Investments UK Limited to compensate Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman