DRN-2781056
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC changed the term on their mortgage 
without their agreement. And they are unhappy with the customer service they have received 
from Barclays and how it dealt with their complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out a mortgage with Barclays in 2007 on a repayment basis. The 
mortgage was in two parts. Part 1 had a 21 year term and Part 2 had a 25 year term.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs G changed the product on Part 1 of their mortgage. And at that time the 
term of their mortgage was extended to 24 years and 7 months.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs G contacted Barclays to see if they would be eligible for further 
borrowing or a term extension. But Barclays didnt agree the application.
Mr and Mrs G complained to Barclays. And Barclays agreed they had received poor 
customer service. It paid them £200 compensation. But Mr and Mrs G werent happy with the 
response they received, and referred their complaint to this service. They said in particular 
that they hadnt agreed to the term extension in 2008. And they were unhappy with the way 
in which Barclays had dealt with their complaint.
Our investigator said that this service couldnt deal with the complaint about extending the 
term of the mortgage in 2008, as it had been brought out of time. But she felt that we could 
consider the other part of their complaint. And she found that the £200 compensation that 
Barclays had paid Mr and Mrs G for the issues they had experienced was fair in the 
circumstances of the complaint.
Mr and Mrs G dont agree with our investigators view, and so the complaint has been 
referred to me to decide whether it is one that this service can consider and issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Term extension
Our rules say were not able to consider every complaint thats referred to us. In this case 
the relevant rule is DISP 2.8.2 which says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(2) More than:
(a) Six years after the event complained of, or (if later)
(b) Three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
Unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the 
complaint having been received;
The term of the mortgage was extended in 2008. This is more than six years before Mr and 
Mrs G brought their complaint. So I must consider whether they made their complaint within 
three years from the date on which they became aware (or ought reasonably to have been 
aware) that they had cause for complaint.
Ive seen a copy of Barclays internal notes. I agree with our investigator that these appear to 
indicate that Mr and Mrs G requested a term extension. And I have also seen a copy of a 
mortgage statement sent to Mr and Mrs G in 2010. This sets out the remaining term on the 
mortgage, which is the same for both parts.
I agree with our investigator that when Mr and Mrs G received the statement in 2010 they 
ought to have been aware that the mortgage term had been extended. And, if this wasnt 
what they were expecting, they ought reasonably to have been aware that they had cause 
for complaint. As this was more than three years before Mr and Mrs G made their complaint 
Im persuaded that they are out of time to make the complaint now.
I appreciate that Mr G has said that he didnt receive post regularly and safely from Barclays. 
And he says he has complained previously about receiving mail that was already opened. 
But Im satisfied, on balance, that Barclays would have sent Mr and Mrs G an annual 
statement in 2010, and subsequent years. And Im not persuaded that it would be 
reasonable for me to hold Barclays responsible if this wasnt received by Mr and Mrs G due 
to any issue with the postal system. So this doesnt change my decision. 
I am able to consider a complaint where in my view the failure to comply with the time limits 
is as a result of exceptional circumstances. Mr G has said that he had family bereavements 
during the relevant time. But, although I sympathise with Mr G, Im not persuaded that these 
constitute exceptional circumstances that prevented him from bringing his complaint during 
the period of six years after the term of the mortgage was extended. So, again, this doesnt 
change my decision..
Customer service
Mr and Mrs G have also complained about the customer service they received when they 
contacted Barclays about further borrowing or extending the term of the mortgage. 
Barclays has acknowledged that there were errors in its customer service. It apologised for 
the fact that they didnt receive a call when it was promised. And it agreed that its agent 
hadnt logged his complaint immediately after speaking to Mr G on 5 November. It paid 
Mr and Mrs G £200 for the poor customer service and the stress and inconvenience this 
caused them. And, although I appreciate Mr and Mrs G dont agree, Im satisfied that this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. So I dont require Barclays to do 
anything further.
My final decisionMy decision is that this service cant consider the first part of this complaint. And I dont 
uphold the second part of the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Alison Cribbs
Ombudsman