DRN-1695905
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester (Lloyds Bank) 
mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1999 when 
he applied for a mortgage.
He also complains that Lloyds Bank gave him a poor service because it did not deal with his 
PPI complaint within eight weeks. 
What happened
Mr S complained that PPI had been added to his mortgage without his knowledge. He said 
his mortgage was initially taken out with Woolwich Building Society in 1996. His mortgage 
was then transferred to Lloyds Bank in 1999 for three amounts of £35,700.00, £676.00 and 
£10,140.00 making a total sum of £45,840.00. 
He said the PPI covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment. He didnt need the 
PPI because he had other insurances, £3,000 in savings and an employees policy for 
hardship and life cover. He produced a copy of an undated and unsigned Cheltenham & 
Gloucester PPI Proposal Form which covered a mortgage amount of £35,700.00. He says 
he did not complete and return the form because he didnt want the PPI.
When he discovered the PPI premium had gone up to £22.00 per month, he cancelled the 
PPI policy in 2002. He produced a more recent letter confirming his need for life cover and 
critical illness cover, and it also confirmed he had no other protection in place.
Our adjudicator rejected the complaint. Mr S disagreed with our adjudicators view and 
asked for the matter to be looked at again. He also asked to speak to me before I make my 
final decision and to talk me through the recent documents he had produced.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should deal with Mr Ss request to speak to me before I make a final decision about 
his complaint. I have reviewed the case and looked at all the documents Mr S (and Lloyds 
Bank) have sent to us  keeping in mind the issues that Mr S felt could only be fairly decided 
if he spoke to me because he wanted to talk me through his documents. However, Im 
satisfied the information we have on file fully covers all of the issues Ill need to consider to 
make a fair decision.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr S says the PPI was added to his mortgage account without his knowledge, so I looked 
very carefully at his mortgage application form dated in 1999 which Lloyds Bank produced. In the section headed Insurance there are PPI tick boxes, one marked Yes and the other 
marked No. Mr Ss form has the Yes box ticked for PPI cover.
He said this was not his tick because someone else completed the form. I do accept the 
form was probably completed by a Lloyds Bank adviser. But I could see the form was 
completed with his personal details, like his salary, age and employment. He had also 
declined other insurances and said yes to PPI  so I think the form was completed diligently 
on his behalf. And as Mr S signed the form, I can reasonably assume he had an opportunity 
to read the contents to check they were all correct and that he agreed with them. So I think 
PPI was shown as optional  and he chose it and consented to have it added to his 
mortgage account by the tick in the Yes box and his signature on the application form 
indicating he agreed with the application forms contents.
I also looked very carefully at the mainly blank Cheltenham & Gloucester PPI Proposal Form 
which Mr S produced. Lloyds Bank said it would have needed a Proposal Form completed 
before it set up the PPI. Mr S said he didnt complete and return it because he didnt want 
PPI. But I noted this form was for a loan of £35,700.00. The amount he finally borrowed was 
£45,840.00, so as this Proposal Form wasnt completed, it was most likely not the one used 
for the increased final mortgage amount. So I dont think this incomplete Proposal Form for a 
reduced loan amount confirms that Mr S didnt choose PPI for the increased loan amount.
Mr S also produced documents from a financial adviser to show he wanted life cover and 
critical illness cover in 2003. The document also confirmed he had no other payment 
protection in place for his mortgage which I assume is correct as Mr S cancelled his PPI 
around 2002. So I dont think this document helps me any further in deciding if Mr S was 
mis-sold PPI in 1999.
Lloyds Bank told us this was an advised sale. Mr S said it was non-advised, but I will 
continue with it being an advised sale as this creates a higher test for Lloyds Bank. For 
advised sales, Lloyds had to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr Ss needs and it had 
to give him enough information which was clear, fair and not misleading so he could make 
his own decision. 
I think the policy probably was suitable for Mr S because he was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and he wasnt affected by the main things the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions).
I noted Mr S said he had savings and good employee benefits. But the PPI could have paid 
out for a maximum of 12 months on a successful claim, leaving his savings for other 
expenses. So I think this would have been a useful benefit for him because Mr S borrowed 
funds against a large and long-term financial commitment, which was secured on his home. I 
think having the security that his mortgage repayments would be made if Mr S was unable to 
work would have been important to him. So I dont think his savings and employee benefits 
made the policy less suitable.
Mr S said he had other insurance policies for life cover and hardship but has not provided a 
copy of the policies full terms and conditions so I cant look at whether the other policies 
would have covered exactly what the PPI did cover for exactly the same circumstances. The 
PPI didnt provide life cover so  although Mr S probably already had life cover - I dont think 
this made the PPI less suitable as the PPI covered other insurance events. 
I dont know what was said during the meeting about the cost and benefits of the policy, and 
looking at everything Ive been given, its possible that information wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But having decided Mr S chose to take out the PPI - it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for him if something went wrong. So I dont think more detailed cost 
and benefits information would have put him off from buying PPI.
I also noted he wasnt affected by the exclusions in the PPI policy - so I dont think he would 
have changed his mind about PPI if hed got more detailed information about them. It also 
looks like the policy was affordable for him so I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put Mr S off from taking out the cover. 
All of the above means Lloyds Bank doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
S.
But Lloyds Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Lloyds Bank got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because Lloyds Bank didnt 
tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds Bank has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what he has said about his employee 
benefits, savings and other insurances. But these points dont change my decision.
Mr S also complained that Lloyds Bank didnt give him good service because it didnt 
respond to his complaint within 8 weeks and he had to chase it several times for its 
response. He says Lloyds Banks letters were backdated, presumably he concludes Lloyds 
Bank did this to show there was no delay.
Lloyds Bank said the complaint was originally received by telephone and was recorded into 
its complaint engine on 01/04/2019 with the final response decision being made on 
22/05/2019. Lloyds Bank added the 8 week deadline was 27/05/2019, with the payment for 
the commission being produced on 03/06/2019 which had to be authorised before being sent 
out. So I can see there might have been some delay between the decision being made and 
the response being sent to Mr S with his authorised cheque. I dont think there was an 
unreasonable delay here, so I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
I do not uphold Mr Ss service complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman