DRN-3859529
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) will not refund the money they 
lost as the result of an investment scam.
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint has been brought by a representative.  But Mr H had the dealings 
with the scammers, so for ease of reading I will refer solely to Mr H in this decision.
What happened
Mr H has explained that in 2017 after being advised by a company  that I will call B - he 
made Faster Payments of £15,000 and £10,00 from his Lloyds current account to fund what 
he believed was the purchase of bond and a loan note from two separate companies that 
purportedly dealt with commercial properties and buy to let properties. After receiving some 
payments from these investments the payments then stopped and eventually both of the 
companies went into liquidation. 
When Mr H subsequently got in touch with Lloyds to explain hed been scammed, Lloyds 
didnt reimburse his lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr H referred his complaint about 
Lloyds to this service. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the case has 
been passed to me for determination.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr H authorised the payments in question here. He was tricked by 
B into instructing Lloyds to make the payment. So although Mr H didnt intend the money to 
go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of 
his account, Mr H is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. 
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, 
relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. To note, as the payment pre-dates the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code 
its principles do not apply in this case. This means I think that Lloyds should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various risks, 
including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken additional 
steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the 
possibility of financial harm.
When considering the size of the payments compared to Mr Hs normal account spend, I 
think they were unusual enough for Lloyds to have intervened at the point the first payment 
was made. But like our investigator, Im not persuaded such intervention would have made a 
difference to the careful decision Mr H had already taken to send this payment.
If Lloyds had intervened during the first payment (as I think it ought to have), I think it could 
have asked what the purpose of the payment was for. I think Mr H would have likely 
explained that he had received advice from B, who was the appointed representative of a 
regulated company, and that he was convinced that the companies he was dealing with 
were legitimate. 
Further, I can see Lloydss notes of the contact between Mr H and Lloyds during the second 
transaction. They indicate that Mr H had confirmed he was receiving financial advice and 
was happy that this transaction was genuine. I also cant see that there were any credible 
warnings about either B or the two companies that Mr H was investing in. So I think Mr H 
would have been able to assuage any initial concerns that Lloyds had and continued with the 
payment.
In the circumstances, I think that this was a very sophisticated scam and I dont think Lloyds 
could reasonably have suspected that Mr H was dealing with a scammer. I recognise the 
rate of return offered by B was high, compared to what was being offered by high street 
banks. But I also have to take into account that bonds such as these and loan notes offer a 
higher rate of return than cash savings tend to do (or at least did in 2017) because of the 
increased risk posed to the bondholder or note holder. So I dont think the rates offered to Mr 
H on their own were particularly unusual for the type of products he was investing in to have 
raised concerns. Whilst the products may have been risky (at least compared to cash 
savings), Lloyds wouldnt have been obliged to provide investment advice or indeed try to 
prevent Mr H from getting involved in an investment opportunity that on the face of it 
appeared legitimate, just because the risk of not receiving all or some of the money back 
was increased compared to cash savings. 
I note that Mr Hs representative has highlighted that Lloyds should have asked Mr H to 
check if the companies that B recommended he invest in were regulated by the FCA. But 
there was neither a requirement for companies issuing bonds such as these to raise money 
to be authorised by the FCA, nor companies that issue loan notes at the time of the 
transactions. So I dont think the fact the companies that B were recommending were not 
regulated means that Lloyds shouldve warned Mr H not to invest the money in the way he 
was choosing to do.
Its also notable there were no warnings at that time about bonds or loan notes such as 
these as products. The FCA published more information about them in May 2019 and 
highlighted some risks involved with investing in such instruments. But this information was 
published nearly two years after Mr H made his payments.
The FCA temporarily banned the mass marketing of speculative bonds such as these to UK 
retail consumers from January 2020, whilst it consulted on permanent rules. It made the 
temporary ban permanent the following year. So I dont think Lloyds could have been 
reasonably aware of this given that this information was published well after Mr H had 
already made the payments.So given the above, the most that I think Lloyds was required to do was to give a generic 
warning about the risk of investing and ensuring he research any investment first before 
sending money to third parties. But given what Mr H has said, I dont think that this would 
have changed his decision in proceeding with the transactions  essentially because he 
seemed convinced at the time that B was legitimate.
Finally, Mr and Mrs H have explained that they were vulnerable consumers at the time of the 
transfer. And that this combined with the transaction being unusual for their account should 
have meant that Lloyds denied the transfers or provided a warning. But I dont think that it 
would have been appropriate for Lloyds to have stopped the transactions based on the 
information that it had at the time. In relation to a warning, for the reasons stated above, I 
think that Lloyds should possibly have given a generic warning about the dangers of 
investing. But as I have said above, I dont think a generic warning would have changed Mr 
Hs decision to proceed with the transactions.
I have then thought about whether Lloyds did what this service would expect it to do to 
recover the funds, once Mr H (or his representative) raised their concerns about the 
payments with Lloyds. Given the length of time that had passed between when they raised 
their concerns and when the payments were made, Im satisfied that recovery was a not a 
viable option.
Ive seen that Lloyds paid Mr and Mrs H compensation for the poor customer service they 
received. I think this was fair and reasonable in the circumstances and dont intend to tell it 
to award anymore.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs H, and Im sorry to hear 
they have lost a significant amount of money on an investment. However, in the 
circumstances, I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable to hold Lloyds liable for their 
loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman