DRN-2882028
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Oakwood Homeloans Limited treated her unfairly when she fell into 
arrears with her buy to let mortgage. She says it sold the property for substantially less than 
the market value and is now pursuing her for the shortfall debt.
What happened
Mrs As buy to let mortgage account fell into arrears in 2015. She was also behind with the 
ground rent and maintenance fees for the property and these were paid by Oakwood and 
added to the mortgage account. Mrs A says she wasnt told about this. She says Oakwood 
didnt agree an arrangement for her to repay the debt in instalments.
A Law of Property Act (LPA) receiver was appointed to manage the property in 2015. In late 
2019 Oakwood took possession. It sold the property in March 2020. Oakwood has asked 
Mrs A to pay the shortfall debt of about £60,000. Mrs A says she wasnt told what she 
needed to do to avoid Oakwood taking possession and selling the property. And she says it 
was sold for less than the market value.
Weve written to Mrs A and Oakwood saying we dont have jurisdiction to look into all of 
Mrs As complaints. Weve said we cant look into her concerns about what happened with 
the ground rent and service charges and the appointment of the LPA receiver in 2016, or 
into the actions of the LPA receiver. We can look into what happened from late 2019.
Our investigator said Oakwoods records show Mrs A was aware of the possession and sale 
of the property and what she needed to do to avoid it. She said Oakwood fulfilled its duty to 
sell the property for the best price reasonably available, and did so within a reasonable time 
period. 
Mrs A didnt agree. She said she had no recollection of speaking to Oakwood in late 2019 
about the possession, and said it avoided discussing the situation with her. Mrs A said if the 
service charges were removed the arrears were only a small amount and Oakwood was 
unreasonable to reject her offer to repay the debt.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Oakwood says the LPA receiver wrote to Mrs A in late November 2019 to say the property 
would be given back to Oakwood. It says its agents then tried to contact Mrs A by phone and 
letter. Oakwoods contact notes say it tried to contact Mrs A in early December as she 
wanted to talk to it about marketing and sale of the property. Its notes say it spoke to Mrs A 
in mid-December 2019 when Mrs A called. On this call, Mrs A said shed received a letter 
from the LPA receiver and a letter from an estate agent asking her to remove her 
possessions from the property. 
Based on Oakwoods notes of its discussions with Mrs A in December 2019, I think she was 
aware the property was in Oakwoods possession and that it was to be marketed and sold.
Oakwood says it hasnt received any contact from Mrs A that it hasnt responded to. On 
some of the occasions when Mrs A called Oakwood it transferred (or tried to transfer) her 
call to another team. I appreciate this was frustrating, especially when the transfer was 
unsuccessful. But if the team Mrs A first spoke to couldnt answer her queries, I dont think it 
was unfair for Oakwood to try and transfer her to a team that could. Oakwood accepts it 
didnt call Mrs A back when it said it would in late December 2019. It offered £25 for this. I 
think this is fair and reasonable compensation for any inconvenience this caused.
Mrs A says she wasnt given an opportunity to resolve matters or told that she needed to pay 
fees and charges (such as the ground rent and service charges) to reduce the loan back to 
the amount she borrowed. I think though Mrs A most likely did know she needed to do this 
as this was part of a complaint she raised in 2016. 
By late 2019 I think Mrs A was aware that the property was to be marketed and sold. Mrs A 
had made a proposal to pay a lump sum and higher monthly payments previously. While this 
wasnt accepted by Oakwood, I think Mrs A was aware that she could make repayment 
proposals. Mrs A was in contact with Oakwood in December 2019. However, I havent seen 
evidence that Mrs A made proposals to clear the ground rent or otherwise made a 
repayment proposal to Oakwood in late 2019. 
Oakwood instructed valuers who gave valuations of £70,000 and £75,000. Oakwood took 
the estate agents advice to market the property at £80,000 initially. This was reduced to 
£75,000 after six weeks, again on advice from the agents. Oakwood needed to balance 
getting the best price available against selling the property within a reasonable period after 
taking possession. The property was sold for over £75,000 in early March 2020. I dont think 
Oakwood acted unfairly when marketing and selling the property. While Mrs A says it was 
sold for less than its value the available evidence doesnt support this.
I understand that Mrs A is concerned about having a shortfall debt to pay. Id urge her to stay 
in contact with Oakwood, with the aim of agreeing a suitable and affordable plan to repay the 
debt. And Id remind Oakwood of its duty to treat Mrs A fairly. 
My final decision
My decision is that Oakwood Homeloans Limited should pay £25 to Mrs A, as it offered to 
do. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman