DRN-3425796
The complaint
S, a limited company, is unhappy that Unum Limited ceased paying a claim on a group 
income protection policy in respect of one of its members whod turned 65 years of age. 
S says the policy terms were unambiguous and the member had the benefit of extended 
cover, providing cover up until the age of 70. 
What happened
S is the named policyholder on a group protection insurance policy (the policy) taken out for 
the benefit of its employees  referred to as members under the policy. The policy is 
underwritten by Unum.
One of its members (M), had made a successful claim on the policy on the basis that they 
met the definition of being incapacitated. Unum continued to pay the monthly benefit to S 
until early 2021, when M turned 65 years of age. 
S didnt think that was right as it had taken out extended cover for all employees (excluding 
the group legal director), meaning the terminal age under the policy was 70, not 65.
A complaint was made to Unum, which ultimately wasnt upheld. Unum didnt think it had 
unfairly stopped paying the monthly benefit when M reached 65. And it was only existing 
members who were actively at work on the day they reached 65 that would transfer to the 
extended cover category. 
Unhappy, S raised a complaint with our service, and it wasnt upheld by our investigator.
S requested an Ombudsmans decision, so this complaint has been passed to me to 
consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has an obligation to treat its customers fairly. It must also handle claims fairly and 
promptly. 
The schedule of insurance says that the terminal age for all employees under the policy is a 
members 65th birthday. 
Theres a further category providing extended cover for member. The eligibility criteria 
reflects that this applies to:
- all employees (excluding the group legal director); and 
- those aged over the terminal age of the eligibility category of which they were, or 
would have been, a member prior to reaching that terminal age. 
Whilst M was an employee, before reaching the terminal age of 65, he didnt meet the 
eligibility requirements of the extended cover. 
Further, for some time immediately before his 65th birthday M had been off work sick and a 
successful claim had been made under the policy, whereby S was receiving a monthly 
benefit in respect of Ms continued absence.
The monthly benefit ceased when M reached 65  the terminal age.
S says the monthly benefit shouldve continued to have been paid as it had taken out 
extended cover for its employees, extending protection up to the age of 70  including for M.
However, extended cover is subject to the terms of the policy.
The policy says that:
If you have chosen a cover cease age which is below 70 but want to provide cover 
for an employee who works beyond the cover cease age, we can provide cover up to 
their 70th birthday.
It goes on to say in practice:
We will set up a separate category for those being provided with extended cover.
So there is no break in cover, you must provide us with details of an employee to be 
included in this category before they reach the cease age.
Existing members who are actively at work on the day they reach the cover cease 
age will transfer to the extended cover category at that point.
Under the policy, the term actively at work means:
 is actively following their normal occupation, and
 is working the normal number of hours required by their contract of employment,  
  and
 is working at their normal business or at another business location, and
 has not received medical advice to reduce or stop their work activity
M was off sick at the time reaching his 65th birthday, so I dont think he was actively at work 
as defined by the policy. And I dont think Unum has acted unfairly by concluding that M 
didnt transfer to the extended cover category as set out in the schedule. 
So, I think Unum acted fairly by stopping paying the claim with effect of his 65th birthday as 
that was the relevant terminal age. 
I dont agree that the terms were unreasonably ambiguous. And although S says Unum 
agreed to update some of the policy wording to make it clearer for clients - and that it has 
since stopped providing the extended cover provision - I dont think it means that the terms 
relevant to this complaint were unreasonably ambiguous or misleading. 
I dont think Unum has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman