DRN-3783884
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about contact from Jarvis Investment Management Limited (Jarvis) on 
25 January 2022, in which he was told 360 Disney shares had been left behind in his 
previous investment account and needed to be sold, in order for the proceeds to be remitted 
into his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). Jarvis subsequently informed him that it 
had made a mistake and that no leftover Disney holding existed, so no remittance was due 
to him. He considers otherwise. He believes the holding existed and that he is being 
deprived the remittance he is entitled to. In addition, or in the alternative, he seeks 
compensation for the trouble and inconvenience the matter has caused him.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded it should be upheld, but not on 
the basis Mr B argued for. She said no value remittance should be due to Mr B because 
there was never a leftover Disney holding, Jarvis was mistaken about it. 
She referred to him transferring his account away from Jarvis in 2016 and to his SIPP being 
moved to Hartley Pension in 2018 and then moved again thereafter; to evidence of 
transactions between 2015 and 2016 (and up to the transfer in 2016) showing there was no 
leftover Disney holding in the Jarvis account when it was closed/transferred; to evidence 
from Jarvis that the holding it had mistakenly referred to was unrelated to Mr B; and to 
contract notes for the Disney holding that Mr B previously had, showing it was sold in 2016.
The investigator also disagreed with Mr Bs claim of £10,000 for trouble and inconvenience. 
She agreed that the matter had caused him both, due to his expectation being wrongly 
raised, but considered fair compensation for that to be £150.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He considers 
that the truth about the leftover holding has not been verified and that compensation to him 
for the trouble and inconvenience caused should correlate with the £40,000 value of the 
holding. He has also sent us updates about Hartley Pension going into administration. Jarvis 
initially agreed with the investigators conclusion on the £150 compensation. However, 
because Mr B asked for an Ombudsmans decision it withdrew its agreement and said it will 
await the decision instead. The matter was then referred to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions expressed by the investigator, for 
broadly the same reasons.
The scope of this complaint is inherently narrow. It relates to the Disney holding that Mr B 
believes was leftover in the Jarvis account  the value of which he seeks to recover. The 
notice he received in January 2022 referred to 360 shares in the holding. The matter to 
determine, in this respect, is whether (or not) such shares were leftover in the account after 
the 2016 transfer and up to the notice in 2022. If so, that creates a basis for Mr Bs value 
recovery pursuit, but if not, then no such basis exists.
I have seen evidence of the following:
The contract note for the purchase of 360 Disney shares, into Mr Bs SIPP, with the 
contract date of 9 September 2015 and settlement on 14 September 2015.
The contract note for the purchase of 129 Disney shares, into Mr Bs SIPP, with the 
contract date of 3 November 2015 and settlement on 5 November 2015.
The contract note for the sale of 76 Disney shares from Mr Bs SIPP  contract date 
23 November 2015, settlement date 24 November 2015.
The contract note for the sale of 413 Disney shares from Mr Bs SIPP  contract date 
10 May 2016, settlement date 11 May 2016.
Transaction statements from August 2015 (when the Jarvis account appears to have 
been opened) to June 2016, showing all the above four transactions with matching 
details. No other Disney stock related transactions appear to be in the statements.
The above sufficiently shows that the total of 489 Disney shares, bought through the 
investment account into Mr Bs SIPP between September and November 2015, had been 
sold by May 2016; that this total included the initial purchase of 360 shares (record of which 
might have lent itself to the mistake Jarvis made in 2022); that no other Disney shares were 
bought through the investment account; and that there were no leftover Disney shares in the 
investment account after May 2016. 
The investigator commented on evidence showing that the shares Jarvis mentioned in 2022 
were unrelated to Mr B. I do not consider it necessary to address that. There is no evidence 
of any leftover Disney shares in his previous Jarvis account up to when it was closed and 
transferred in 2016, so it follows that no such shares could exist in 2022. I have also seen 
evidence of the 2022 sale proceeds being sent into the Hartley SIPP, which Mr B says was 
then returned to Jarvis upon its request. I consider similarly in this respect. I do not need to 
address this, and any questions about which shares were sold, who they belonged to and 
who received the sale proceeds are arguably irrelevant. The 2022 shares, if any, were not 
Mr Bs 360 Disney shares because they had already been sold by 2016.
In conclusion, I find no grounds to uphold Mr Bs claim. However, as the investigator said, 
Jarvis mistake in 2022 and its involvement of Mr B in that mistake meant his expectation 
was falsely raised. I do not suggest Jarvis intentionally deceived him. Instead, it appears to 
have made a mistake. It then identified and corrected the mistake, and informed him of this 
in its email of 24 March 2022. In other words, Mr Bs raised expectation lasted for around 
two months, but there has been no financial loss to him. For the trouble and inconvenience 
caused in these circumstances, I am satisfied that payment of £150 to him is fair 
compensation. He has no claim to the £40,000 value he has referred to, so his argument 
about correlating that claim with compensation for trouble and inconvenience falls away. 
Furthermore, this service does not assess trouble and inconvenience awards in the way he 
suggests.
Putting things right
For the above reasons, I conclude that Mr B must be paid £150 for the trouble and 
inconvenience Jarvis caused him.
My final decision
Mr decision, on the above grounds, is that Mr Bs claim for trouble and inconvenience, alone, is upheld and Jarvis Investment Management Limited must pay him compensation of £150 
for that.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman