DRN-3816591
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed his accounts without valid 
justification and wants to be financially compensated for lost earnings for the time spent 
dealing with the matter, reputational damage and mental distress. 
What happened
Mr K held a Business, Barclaycard and a number of Personal accounts with Barclays. 
Barclays says it noticed another business had logged a fraud marker against Mr B and took 
the decision to close his accounts with it.
The relevant terms and conditions of the accounts Mr K had with Barclays say that Barclays 
can close the:
Business account, Barclaycard and Personal accounts by giving at least two months 
or 60 days notice; 
or in relation to the Personal accounts
may end this agreement immediately or on less notice (and stop providing services 
and close your account) if we reasonably believe you have seriously or persistently 
broken any terms of the agreement or we have reasonable grounds for thinking you 
have done any of the following things, which you must not do, which includes but is 
not limited to:
oYou put us in a position where we might break a law, regulation, code or other 
duty that applies to us if we maintain your account.
Mr K complains prior to the closure of his accounts he was unable to access his money for a 
period of three days and was left with no means of meeting his and his familys financial 
needs and had to spend a significant time in trying to understand why his accounts had been 
closed without prior notice.
Barclays says all the account closures were in line with the terms and conditions of the 
accounts and in line with its normal processes and that Mr K was able to access his funds 
when visiting a branch of Barclays on 31 March 2022 prior to closure.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion that 
Barclays was entitled to close Mr Ks accounts but that it hadnt given prior notice of the 
closure of his personal accounts which was unfair. To put this right they thought Barclays 
should pay £150 compensation to Mr K to which Barclays agreed.
But Mr K didnt want to accept this and has asked for an ombudsmans decision on the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I hope that Mr K wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint in the way 
that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on what I 
consider to be the crux of the complaint. Our rules allow me to do that. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. 
So I need to consider whether Barclays did anything wrong in closing Mr Ks
accounts or in the processes it followed when doing this.  
As a general rule Barclays isnt obliged to continue offering an account to a customer if it 
doesnt want to or provide a reason or justification for its decision to close an account. Just 
as a customer doesnt have to explain why they may take their banking elsewhere. What 
banking services a bank provides and to who is a commercial decision of the banks and not 
something for me to get involved with.
Ive briefly outlined the relevant terms and conditions of the accounts in the background 
above. 
I can see that for both Mr Ks Business and Barclaycard accounts Mr K was given the 
required two months and 60 days notice by letter on 20 December 2021 and 31 January 
2022 respectively before these accounts were closed.  So, Im agreement with our 
adjudicator that Barclays was entitled to close these accounts and followed the correct 
process in doing so. 
Regarding Mr Ks personal accounts I can see that Barclays took the decision to close Mr 
Ks personal accounts when it noticed a fraud marker had been logged against Mr Ks name 
by another business. I think this falls within one of the conditions outlined above where 
Barclays can close an account immediately. So again, I dont think Barclays did anything 
wrong and was entitled to close Mr Ks personal accounts when it did on 1 April 2022.
However, although Barclays was entitled to close Mr Ks accounts, I cant say it gave Mr K 
any notice before it did this which I dont think was fair. I can see that a closure letter was 
sent to Mr K on 6 May 2022 but this was over a month after the accounts were closed. 
Our adjudicator recommended that Barclays compensate Mr K £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by not receiving a closure notice on his personal accounts. 
Mr K doesnt want to accept this. He wants to be compensated for lost earnings, reputational 
damage and solicitors costs. But Im in agreement with our adjudicator here  it was Mr Ks 
choice to instruct a solicitor where he had other avenues he could take. And I can see that 
even without being given prior notice of the account closures Mr K was aware of what was 
happening because the bank statements show he was able to withdraw the funds prior to 
when the accounts were closed. So Im not persuaded that compensation above the £150 
recommended by our adjudicator is warranted. So, although I appreciate the closure of Mr Ks accounts caused Mr K stress and 
inconvenience having to adjust his financial affairs, I cant say Barclays did anything wrong 
as from what Ive seen Barclays was entitled to close Mr Ks accounts.  
But I think the £150 compensation recommended by our adjudicator and agreed by Barclays 
for not giving notice of the closure of Mr Ks personal accounts is a fair and reasonable way 
to settle this complaint and Im not going to ask Barclays do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I partially uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct Barclays Bank 
UK PLC pay the fair compensation of £150. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman