DRN-3370244
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Building Block Insurance PCC Limited (BBI) rejecting a claim under 
her pet insurance policy for treatment to her dog.
References to BBI include their agents who administer the policy.
What happened
Mrs W had a dog covered by a pet insurance policy with BBI taken out in October 2020. In 
December 2020 the dog was seen by a vet with a problem passing stools and again the 
following month with diarrhoea. A digestive system inflammation was suspected. The 
symptoms recurred and the dog was seen again in May 2021. An ultrasound examination 
was carried out, but no definitive diagnosis was reached for the dogs condition. Mrs W 
subsequently made a claim for the cost of treatment.
BBI considered the claim but rejected it. They referred to the dogs clinical history, 
specifically to previous episodes of vomiting and soft stools (February 2018), diarrhoea 
(March 2018 and September 2018). Based on this, they said the dog had a pre-existing 
condition prior to the policy being taken out, which meant the policy wouldnt cover the cost 
of the treatment in May 2021. 
Unhappy at the decline of her claim, Mrs W complained to BBI. But they didnt uphold the 
complaint. In their final response, they referred to the clinical history and maintained their 
view that the dog had shown clinical signs and symptoms of the condition before the policy 
started. As such, the condition was pre-existing and excluded from cover. So, they confirmed 
the decision to decline the claim.
Mrs W then complained to this service, saying BBI had unfairly declined her claim. She said 
her dog hadnt had any issues from the first treatments in 2018 to the subsequent problems 
(and the nature of the problems werent the same). She also said the cause of the problems 
in 2018 hadnt been diagnosed, but she thought it could have been related to the dogs habit 
(at the time) of eating plants and drinking pond water. She wanted BBI to accept her claim 
and pay for the cost of treatment.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ws complaint, concluding BBI hadnt acted fairly. While the 
clinical history indicated similar symptoms between the episodes in 2018 and 2020/2021, she 
thought it wasnt fair to decline the claim on that basis. She thought the symptoms could 
have had different underlying causes. She also noted a two-year gap between the incidents 
and no mention of similar symptoms when the dog was seen by the vet between those dates. 
She also noted the views of Mrs Ws vet that the two episodes werent related. As BBI were 
using the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the claim, the onus was on them to show 
it applied. She didnt think BBI had shown this. To put things right, she thought BBI should 
settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (taking account 
of the policy excess and those costs that werent recoverable under the policy). 
BBI disagreed with the investigators conclusions, and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether BBI has acted fairly towards Mrs W. 
The main issue in Mrs Ws complaint is whether BBI acted fairly in applying a policy 
exclusion for pre-existing conditions to decline her claim. Mrs W says her dog hadnt had any 
issues from the first treatments in 2018 to the subsequent problems (and the nature of the 
problems werent the same). She also points to the views of her vet, that the two episodes 
werent related. BBI refer to the clinical history of the dog and say the dog had shown clinical 
signs and symptoms of the condition before the policy started. As such, the condition was 
pre-existing and excluded from cover.
 
Ive considered both views carefully. Where a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on 
them to show that an insured event applies. In this case, theres no doubt that Ms Bs dog 
had a condition that required treatment for which she made a claim. But where an insurer 
relies on an exclusion to decline a claim, the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies - 
it isnt for the policyholder to show that it doesnt apply.
The exclusion applied by BBI is for a pre-existing condition, which the policy defines as: 
Any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition which has occurred or existed, or has 
shown signs or symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date
A similar term is included under the Veterinary Fees section of the policy, under the heading 
What is not insured?, which states:
5 Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition or 
that showed signs of existence before Your Policy Start Date.
Ive considered both views carefully, together with the supporting information and evidence, 
including the medical history and the views expressed by Mrs Ws vet. On balance, Im not 
persuaded (given the onus is on them) that BBI have shown there was a pre-existing 
condition that caused the issues for which the dog was treated in May 2021. So, Ive 
concluded they didnt act fairly and reasonably in using the exclusion to decline the claim. Ill 
set out why Ive come to that view.
Looking at the medical history, the incidents in 2018 refer to soft stools and diarrhoea. While 
possible causes were discussed, no clear diagnosis of an underlying cause (or condition). 
Following those incidents, the dog attended the vet clinic for vaccinations later in 2018 and 
then late 2019. It wasnt until December 2020 that the dog presented with symptoms that 
werent the same as the symptoms in 2018. The vet indicated a suspected digestive system 
inflammation. When the symptoms presented in May 2021, similar symptoms were noted 
alongside runny faeces. The subsequent scan didnt provide a clear diagnosis of the cause 
of the symptoms (or any underlying condition). Based on this, I dont think its reasonable to 
conclude the two episodes  particularly given the gap of over two years between the 
episodes  were linked and the result of the same, pre-existing condition. 
Ive also taken account of there being no clear diagnosis of underlying cause (or condition) 
either in 2018 or in 2021, together with the views of Mrs Ws vet that the episodes in 2018 
and 2021 werent related.Given Ive concluded BBI havent acted fairly to rely on the pre-existing condition exclusion 
to decline Mrs Ws claim, Ive thought about what BBI need to do to put things right. As I 
dont think they can rely on the exclusion, then they should settle the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, including any policy excess. BBI excluded 
items totalling £137.55 from the claim, on the grounds they relate to vet bills more than 90 
days old (which the policy says wont be reimbursed). I think that policy term is clear, so BBI 
have applied it reasonably to decline that part of the claim. 
If Mrs W has already paid for the cost of treatment, then in addition BBI should pay interest 
on the assessed amount to settle the claim at the rate of 8% simple from the date Mrs W 
paid the cost of treatment to the date Mrs W tells us she accepts my decision (if she accepts 
the decision).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. I require 
Building Block Insurance PCC Limited to:
Assess Mrs Ws claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy, including any 
policy excess (as appropriate).
If Mrs W has already paid for the cost of treatment, then in addition BBI should pay interest 
on the assessed amount to settle the claim at the rate of 8% simple from the date Mrs W 
paid the cost of treatment to the date she tells us she accepts my decision (if she accepts 
the decision).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman