DRN-2534212
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society didnt action their request to 
make an international transfer in a timely manner, and this led to them receiving a less 
favourable exchange rate than would have been available otherwise.  
What happened
This complaint has been referred to this service by Mr and Mrs M. However, having 
reviewed this complaint, its clear that Mr M was more actively involved in the events that 
took place, and so for ease of reference over the course of this decision I will refer solely to 
Mr M, unless it is appropriate to do otherwise.
On 1 May 2020, Mr M contacted Nationwide via telephone and spoke with a member of the 
Chelmsford branch. Mr M wanted to transfer a large sum of money to his account overseas, 
to take advantage of a beneficial currency exchange rate at that time. 
At that time of the initial call, the money that Mr M wanted to transfer overseas wasnt in his 
Nationwide account and was in the process of being transferred there from another UK 
bank. Mr M didnt have access to online banking and was overseas himself and so couldnt 
visit a branch, so it was explained to Mr M that he should call back and ask for the same 
advisor when the money was in his Nationwide account and the international transfer could 
be arranged over the phone.
Mr M called Nationwide again later that day, when the funds had been transferred into his 
Nationwide account, but he wasnt able to speak with the original advisor. And the 
Nationwide advisors that he did speak with on this occasion gave him incorrect information 
and didnt move his transfer request forward in a timely manner, which led to the 
international transfer taking place several days later than Mr M had wanted.
Mr M wasnt happy about this, especially as the currency exchange rate had moved against 
him during the period of delay. So, he made a complaint.
Nationwide looked at this complaint, but they felt that theyd handled the transfer request in a 
timely manner, and that they shouldnt be held responsible for the lower rate of exchange 
that Mr M had received. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response, so he referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Nationwide hadnt 
processed the transfer as efficiently as should be expected, and that Mr M had received a 
lower currency exchange rate because of this. So, they recommended that Nationwide 
should reimburse Mr M the difference between the total amount received by Mr M when the 
transfer was made, and the amount that would have been received by Mr M had the transfer 
been completed when it reasonably should have been. They also felt that Nationwide should 
pay Mr M £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he had incurred.
Nationwide accepted that a compensation payment of £300 was merited for the trouble Mr M 
had experienced, but they didnt feel that the reimbursement of the difference between 
exchange rates that our investigator was recommending was fair or reasonable. So, the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When making decisions on complaints, its often the case that I arrive at a clear opinion that 
one party should or should not be held accountable for what has taken place. But this isnt 
the case in this instance, and while at first glance it may seem apparent that Nationwide 
didnt process Mr Ms transfer as quickly as they could have done, which in turn caused Mr 
M to incur a loss, there are mitigating circumstances here that warrant consideration.
For instance, under normal circumstances, Mr M would not have been able to process this 
transfer over the phone, as he wanted to, and this option was only available to him because 
of the Covid-19 pandemic and the measures that Nationwide had recently implemented to 
allow their customers to make such transactions via the telephone in response to the 
national restrictions imposed by the pandemic. 
The delay in processing that Mr Ms international transfer request incurred was because of a 
misunderstanding by Nationwide staff about this recently implemented policy. And given that 
Nationwide were themselves operating under less than normal circumstances because of 
the ongoing pandemic, its understandable to me how such a misunderstanding might arise. 
So, Im hesitant to censure Nationwide for this, as its clear that they were working to 
implement non-standard processes because of the wider social circumstances and that 
these new processes had been designed with their customers benefit in mind.
However, it remains the fact that Mr Ms transfer request wasnt processed in a timely 
manner by Nationwide, and while I can understand and appreciate why that may have been 
the case, it also doesnt seem fair to simply ask Mr M to bear the cost of the loss he incurred 
by way of the lower rate of exchange he received because of this delay. 
It also must be noted that Mr M was able to request a transfer via telephone because 
Nationwide were offering this service, and while it may have been unusual for them to do so, 
its difficult not to ultimately conclude that Mr M should have been able to expect that 
Nationwide should perform a service that they were offering in a timely manner.
It follows from this that I do accept that Nationwide should be accountable for any financial 
loss that Mr M can reasonably be said to have incurred because of the delay in processing 
his transfer request. And while I acknowledge that there are mitigating circumstances here, 
as I have explained above, and that Nationwide were acting in good faith under difficult 
conditions, on balance I feel that instructing Nationwide to compensate Mr M for his financial 
loss here leads to a fairer outcome than any of the alternative options.
This leads to a question about when Mr M could reasonably have expected his transfer 
request to be fulfilled. Specifically, on what date could it reasonably be said that Mr M should 
have received the transferred funds into his overseas account, and what rate of exchange 
would he have benefited from on that date. 
In his view of this complaint, our investigator suggested that Mr M should have received the 
money into his overseas account on 7 May 2020. This date was suggested because it was reasoned that Mr M should have been referred to Nationwides Specialist Support Team 
(SST) - who would have helped him with the transfer - when he first contacted Nationwide on 
1 May, although it is acknowledged that because Mr M wouldnt have been able to have 
been referred to the SST until the funds he wished to transfer had been moved into his 
Nationwide account, which didnt happen until later in the day, that this referral to the SST 
should have effectively taken place on 2 May.
Given that 2 May 2020 was a Saturday, its further reasoned that the transfer couldnt have 
been initiated until Monday 4 May, and finally a period of three days is allowed in the 
estimate for the transfer to take place  resulting in Mr M theoretically receiving the money in 
his overseas account on 7 May 2020.
This is in contrast to what actually took place, which was that Mr M wasnt referred to the 
SST until 5 May, and the transfer wasnt initiated until 12 May, although it was received by 
Mr M the following day on 13 May 2020.
Its evident from the above that theres a delay between Mr M being referred to the SST on 5 
May and the transfer being initiated on 12 May. Nationwide have explained that this was 
because when they spoke with Mr M on 7 May, to take the information needed to process 
the transfer, Mr M provided incorrect information which itself caused a delay. Because of 
this, Nationwide dont agree that they should be held accountable for this portion of the 
overall processing delay.
I can appreciate Nationwides argument here but having listened to the recording of the initial 
phone conversation between Mr M and Nationwides advisor on 1 May, Mr M does provide 
all of the correct information needed to process the transfer on that call. And had things 
moved forwards appropriately from that point, its difficult to agree that there should have 
been a need for Mr M to have been called on 7 May, and so the opportunity to provide 
incorrect information should never have arisen.
So, Im satisfied that the use of the date of 7 May 2020 as being that when Mr M should 
reasonably have expected to have received the money into his overseas account is justified 
here. And while I acknowledge, as explained previously, that Nationwide were acting in good 
faith under difficult circumstances throughout this time, it follows that I will be upholding this 
complaint on the basis recommended by our investigator and instructing Nationwide to 
compensate Mr M based on the difference between the amount that Mr M should have 
received on 7 May 2020, and what he actually received on 12 May 2020.
I understand that this decision entails the payment of a not insignificant amount of money by 
Nationwide to Mr M, and I realise this wont be the outcome that Nationwide were wanting. 
But I hope that they can understand, based on everything I have explained above, why I feel 
that this outcome represents the fairest and most reasonable outcome in these 
circumstances, and why I have reached the final decision that I have.
Putting things right
Nationwide must pay Mr M, to his overseas account, the financial loss, which is the 
difference between the rate he received and the rate that would have been available to him 
on 7 May 2020  as previously detailed by our investigator.
Nationwide must also make a payment to Mr M of £300 for the inconvenience and upset he 
incurred.   
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Nationwide Building Society on the 
basis explained above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman