DRN-3698688
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC recorded information on their 
credit files about missed mortgage payments, even though the bank said it would not do this. 
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs R want Barclays to remove any adverse information 
from their credit files.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, 
and in the investigators letters dated 12 May 2022 and 2 August 2022. All parties have seen 
those letters, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate 
on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs R being identified. So 
for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Briefly, Mr and Mrs R have a capital repayment mortgage taken out with Barclays on 
5 March 2020. They were granted two payments deferrals  one for April-June 2020 
inclusive where no payments were made, and the other for July-September 2020 inclusive, 
when payments of £1,000 per month were made. Full payments of approximately £1,800 per 
month were due to be resumed from October 2020 onwards. 
In November 2020 Mr and Mrs R let Barclays know they wouldnt be able to make the 
payment for that month. Barclays explained that Mr and Mrs R had had the full six-month 
Covid deferral (the partial payments theyd made from July-September 2020 counting 
towards this), and so the only option that wouldnt affect their credit files would be a 
temporary switch to interest-only. However, this would be based on an assessment of 
affordability, as it was a material change to the mortgage contract.
It wasnt until February 2021 that Mr and Mrs R contacted Barclays with details of their 
income and expenditure. As there was a deficit of over £3,000 in their income versus 
expenditure, it wasnt possible to make any changes to the mortgage.
In March 2021 a complaint was raised with Barclays that adverse information had been 
recorded on Mr and Mrs Rs credit files. Mrs R, who has dealt with the complaint throughout 
both with us and with Barclays, said that shed been told by the bank that no missed 
payments or arrears would be recorded on her and Mr Rs credit files. Mrs R said that she 
was looking to re-mortgage another property she owned but the entries on the credit files 
were making this impossible. Mrs R wanted Barclays to remove the entries.
Barclays didnt uphold the complaint, saying it had correctly recorded the position on the 
account. Dissatisfied with Barclays response, Mr and Mrs R brought the complaint to us. 
After considering everything that had happened, the investigator didnt think Barclays had 
done anything wrong. She was satisfied that, during the call in November 2020, the bank 
had explained clearly that the only option to avoid adverse credit information would be a 
temporary switch to interest-only, and that this was subject to an affordability check. As a 
result, she didnt think there was any basis on which Barclays should remove the entries on 
Mr and Mrs Rs credit files, as they were an accurate reflection of the account conduct.
Mrs R disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to over 1,600 pages of documents, as well as 
call recordings. Ive read and listened to everything, and its apparent that some parts of the 
evidence are less relevant to the underlying case than others. There are also a lot of 
duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. As I stated above, I have, by necessity, 
summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that missed payments from 
October 2020 were recorded on their credit files, which is now making it difficult for them to 
re-mortgage another property they own. Mrs R says Barclays didnt tell them that missed 
payments would be recorded with the credit reference agencies.
However, this was explained by Barclays in November 2020 when discussing the options 
available to Mr and Mrs R after theyd explained they werent able to resume the full 
mortgage payments. I wont set out the details of the call  the investigator did that in her 
letter of 2 August 2022. But Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs R were made aware by Barclays of 
the implications for their credit files of not making payments.
Barclays clarified that the only option that wouldnt result in adverse information being 
recorded was if Mr and Mrs R were able to switch temporarily to interest-only. They didnt 
contact the bank with their income and expenditure information until February 2021. 
Unfortunately, switching to interest-only wasnt affordable, and so this didnt take place.
I appreciate this has been a difficult time for Mr and Mrs R, but overall Im unable to find that 
the bank has done anything wrong. Barclays is under an obligation to provide an accurate 
record of the conduct of the account to credit reference agencies. In the circumstances, 
where there are missed payments with no payment arrangement in place, these will show as 
mortgage arrears. 
My final decision
I know this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs R were hoping for, but Im not upholding this 
complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman