DRN-4055773
The complaint
Ms E complains NewDay Ltd have not dealt fairly with a claim she made for a refund in 
relation to tickets to a festival paid for with a NewDay credit card.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Ms Es complaint on 9 March 2023 in which I set out the 
background and my provisional findings. But in brief, on 23 February 2020 Ms E had booked 
tickets to a multi-day festival to take place in May 2020, on her NewDay credit card. She 
bought a childs ticket for £12.50, car parking for £12.50, and an adult ticket for £89.50.
The festival was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. After a few failed attempts it 
was eventually rearranged for August 2021. Ms E was unhappy with new coronavirus-
related entrance requirements the organisers put in place for the rearranged dates, which 
she hadnt agreed to at the time of making her booking. The organisers eventually said she 
could come anyway if she signed a waiver on arrival, but she said it was too late by this point 
as the festival had already started.
Ms E enlisted NewDays help with obtaining a refund. It said it couldnt help her under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) because it didnt think the organiser 
had broken its contract with her. Ms E complained and NewDay paid her £65 compensation 
for delays in its complaint handling, but maintained it couldnt help her with a refund.
Ms E brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where it was looked into 
by an investigator and subsequently by me. In my provisional decision I reached the 
following conclusions:
There were two ways in which NewDay could have assisted Ms E when she 
approached it with her problem with her ticket purchase. It could either have 
considered a chargeback, which was a way of resolving disputes between banks 
over card payments, or it could have considered whether it had a legal obligation to 
provide her with redress due to the effect of sections 56 or 75 of the CCA.
Ms E did not benefit from the protection of section 75 of the CCA. This was because 
it only covered items which cost more than £100. Although Ms Es overall purchase 
had come to £140 and this was what was charged to her card, each item was clearly 
under the threshold. So NewDay wasnt liable to her under this part of the law.
Section 56 of the CCA didnt have any restrictions on the price of the items 
purchased, and would allow Ms E to hold NewDay liable for misrepresentation by the 
festival organiser before she booked her tickets. However, this didnt help Ms E 
because the issues had all occurred after shed made the booking. The organisers 
hadnt said anything which was false about the entry requirements at the time of 
booking. Theyd ended up changing them later due to the pandemic. Section 56 
didnt cover this sort of scenario.
This left the matter of a chargeback, which was a way of resolving disputes according 
to the rules of the scheme to which the card belonged. In Ms Es case, the scheme 
was Mastercard. I noted chargebacks could only be carried out for reasons outlined 
in the scheme rules, and there was no guarantee of success. I said Id have expected 
a credit card company to carry out a chargeback where it would be compliant with the 
rules and have a reasonable chance of succeeding.
I considered the Mastercard rules as well as guidance the card scheme had provided 
covering common scenarios caused by the pandemic. Having done so I didnt think 
Ms Es situation fit neatly into any of the reasons Mastercard said a chargeback could 
be raised for. The closest reason I could find said that a chargeback could be made if 
services were changed or postponed and this was not accepted by the cardholder, 
unless the terms and conditions said otherwise. This meant that, in theory, if Ms E 
was unhappy with the changes made to the festival, she should be able to claim a 
refund subject to what the terms and conditions said. It was therefore clear that these 
terms were a key piece of information needed to decide her case.
Ms E could remember seeing some terms and conditions during the purchase 
process, but she didnt have a copy of them. I checked archived versions of the 
festivals website at various points between 2017 and 2021 and noted that at all 
times tickets were described as being non-refundable. Full copies of the terms did 
not appear on the website until mid-2020, and these said that in the event of 
postponement, tickets would be rolled over to rearranged dates and refunds would 
not be possible. 
I thought it was likely the full set of terms provided to Ms E would have contained 
similar wording, meaning that shed have been obliged to accept changes rather than 
be able to claim a refund. It followed that, had NewDay attempted a chargeback, it 
would likely have failed. Ultimately, I didnt think they were under an obligation to 
refund Ms E.
I couldnt comment on how NewDay had handled the complaint itself, because the 
Financial Ombudsman Service does not have the power to look at complaints about 
complaint handling.
I invited both parties to the complaint to respond to my provisional decision. NewDay did not 
reply. Ms E didnt agree. She made the following points:
It seemed I was bound by the framework of rules set out by the card companies, and 
this could never be fair to consumers, or independent.
The festival organiser simply hadnt held up their end of the bargain. They had been 
poor at communicating any changes to the entry requirements, only putting these on 
their website instead of sending them directly. 
How could I speculate about what the terms and conditions would have been, if I 
hadnt actually seen them?
The case has now been returned to me to consider again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. However, I do want to address the points raised by Ms E. 
I dont lack in sympathy for Ms E in the situation she found herself in, but I am deciding a 
complaint about NewDay, and ultimately NewDay is not responsible for everything that could 
possibly go wrong with a purchase. Poor communication by the festival organiser is perhaps 
something which NewDay could be held responsible for if section 75 of the CCA had applied 
to the purchase. However, for the reasons explained above, my view is that section 75 did 
not apply to the purchase.
Neither I nor NewDay make the rules which govern how chargebacks work. And the card 
schemes, which do make those rules, are not within the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, so I am unable to look at a complaint about them. I can 
however, look at how NewDay has handled the chargeback in line with the scheme rules, 
and this is what I have done. I thought, and still think, it was unlikely NewDay could have 
pursued a chargeback successfully, so it had not done anything wrong in failing to attempt 
one.
Regarding the terms and conditions, I appreciate Ms Es point, but in the end I had to take a 
view, on the balance of probabilities, as to what the terms and conditions were likely to have 
said. And while this involved making some assumptions, I dont think they were 
unreasonable ones based on the limited historic evidence available. If Ms E thinks these 
assumptions were wrong, it was open to her to obtain and provide a copy of the actual terms 
which would show this to be the case.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, including the summarised reasoning from my provisional 
decision, I do not uphold Ms Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman