DRN-2285463
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about how Metro Bank PLC dealt with setting up two new Individual 
Savings Accounts (ISA) for her. 
What happened
Mrs S visited a Metro branch in October 2019 and asked to open two cash ISAs  one three-
year ISA for £4,000 and a one-year ISA for £2,000. The money for the accounts was to 
come from an existing Stocks and Shares ISA that Mrs S held with another bank, who Ill 
refer to as Bank A. The paperwork to transfer the funds from Bank A was completed by 
Metro. 
Mrs S received a letter from Bank A in the same month letting her know that Metro had 
made an error with the fund transfer paperwork. So Mrs S visited the Metro branch again 
and the member of staff she spoke to told her the problem was resolved. Mrs S said she 
then visited the Metro branch a further three times in November and December 2019, as the 
accounts hadnt been set up.  
Metro dealt with Mrs Ss queries as a complaint and sent a final response letter in December 
2019. It accepted it had fallen short in the service it provided to Mrs S. It said the incorrect 
fund transfer forms were completed on two occasions and this meant Bank A rejected the 
transfer request twice. Metro said the transfer was now proceeding correctly. It apologised 
for the errors. 
Mrs S received a letter from Bank A in January 2020 informing her that there was another 
error with the paperwork from Metro and that Bank A couldnt transfer her ISA to Metro. 
Mrs S then received a second letter from Bank A in January 2020. It said the fund transfer 
was now complete and a total of £12,392.73 had been transferred to Metro on 29 January 
2020. 
Mrs S complained to Metro in January and February 2020 about the delays in setting up the 
accounts. She said she thought the three-year account had now been set up and she 
wanted to know what happened to the one-year account. Mrs S asked for the interest to be 
backdated to October 2019 and for compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
Metro issued a second final response letter in March 2020. It said both ISA accounts were 
now open, and it was waiting for Bank A to send it a cheque to fund the accounts. It said it 
had earlier received a cheque from Bank A, but for the wrong amount - £12,392.73 instead 
of £4,000. It said it had twice sent requests for updates to Bank A but it had not responded. 
Metro said it was limited as to what it could do until it received the cheque from Bank A. It 
said it didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint but, as a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to backdate the 
interest to the day Mrs S visited the Metro branch to sign the ISA transfer form. 
Metro sent a statement to Mrs S in April 2020 confirming that the required £4,000 was 
transferred into the three-year ISA on 19 March 2020.  
Mrs S made a complaint to this service in May 2020 about the delays shed experienced and 
about the one-year ISA, which had still not been set up. 
When our investigator got in contact with Metro it said the three-year ISA had been correctly 
funded, but it was still awaiting funds for the one-year ISA. It offered Mrs S £200 by way of 
an apology for the service she received. 
On 6 August 2020 the funds were transferred into Mrs Ss one-year ISA. 
Our investigator upheld Mrs Ss complaint. He said the offer made by Metro to backdate the 
interest on the accounts to October 2019 and to pay Mrs S compensation of £200 was fair in 
the circumstances. 
Mrs S was unhappy with the outcome. She said the compensation offered was not enough 
and she also wanted a letter of apology. She said she holds Metro entirely responsible for 
the errors made with the two accounts. Mrs S said the one-year ISA matured on 8 October 
2020 and she is still awaiting details of the interest accrued. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint. 
Metro has offered to pay Mrs S £200 by way of an apology for the poor service it provided. 
And it also offered to backdate the interest on the accounts to the day Mrs S visited the 
Metro branch to sign the ISA transfer form, which I can see was 29 October 2019. So what 
I am looking at now is whether the redress suggested is fair, given the circumstances of 
Mrs Ss complaint. 
From what I can see, Mrs S had to visit the Metro branch an additional four times between 
October and December 2019 in order to try and sort out what had gone wrong with the 
setting up of the two ISA accounts. Metro has acknowledged that the delays at this stage 
arose from members of staff filling in fund transfer paperwork incorrectly on two occasions. 
Mrs S also contacted Metro by phone and letter a number of times to try and resolve this 
matter. 
The delays with the accounts being set up and the money being transferred went on for 
some time. The fund transfer into the three-year ISA was completed in March 2020, while 
the fund transfer to the one-year ISA was completed in August 2020. 
I can see that Mrs S says she holds Metro entirely responsible for whats gone wrong, but 
Metro were not responsible for the incorrect amount being transferred to the three-year ISA 
in January 2020. And I cant see that Metro caused any further delays before the funds were 
transferred to that account in March 2020. Metro was, however, responsible for the delay 
with the funding being transferred to the one-year ISA. 
To summarise, Im satisfied that Metro was responsible for some of the delays in setting up 
the ISA accounts for Mrs S. And Metro should make sure Mrs S does not lose out financially 
as a result of those delays, by ensuring it pays the interest she should have received on both 
accounts from the date she first signed the ISA transfer forms. And Im also satisfied that 
Metro was responsible for the inconvenience experienced by Mrs S, when she had to visit 
the Metro branch an additional four times, as well as contact it by letter and phone. So I think its fair for Metro to compensate Mrs S for the time it took her to deal with the errors made by 
Metro and Im satisfied that £200 fairly reflects the impact of this inconvenience on Mrs S. 
Mrs S told this service that the one-year ISA account has now matured, and she has 
requested a cheque for the amount due, but this hasnt been received so far. I havent dealt 
with this matter here, as Mrs S would need to first of all raise this as a complaint with Metro 
and, if shes unhappy with its response, she can bring it to this service.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to pay £200 
compensation to Mrs S and to pay Mrs S the interest she would have received on both 
accounts from the date she first signed the ISA transfer forms on 29 October 2019. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman