DRN-2509613
The complaint
 Zs complaint was referred to this service by its solicitor. Thereafter, representations have 
also been led by its owner, Mr H. Z held an investment/trading account with LMAX Broker 
Limited (LMAX) between 25 April and 1 August 2019, into which £500,000 was deposited at 
the outset. Z says LMAX did as follows:  
Allowed an unauthorised third party (Mr K) to provide advice for the investments 
made in the account. [issue 1]
Granted Mr K unauthorised access to the account, including having discussions 
about the accounts investments/trades with him. [issue 2]
Presented misleading information about Mr Ks past performance in an 
inaccurate/incomplete Demonstration Account Statement (the DAS) upon which Z 
and Mr H relied. [issue 3]
Operated the account without transparency, especially with regards to charges, with 
regards to how it suffered a total loss of around £176,000 by the time it was closed 
and possibly in other respects too. [issue 4]
Breached its regulatory obligations  based on all the above  towards Z and, overall, 
should be required to provide full disclosure of all activities in the account and to 
provide compensation for the financial loss incurred in the account. [issue 5]
What happened
LMAXs position is mainly as follow:
Z was treated as a retail client. The account was appropriate for Z, as a retail client, 
given that it was a company registered to conduct investment related activities, which 
it evidenced with a portfolio valued in excess of £500,000.
It provided an execution only service, so it had no responsibility to advise on trades in 
the account, no responsibility to manage the account and no responsibility to monitor 
the account. Mr H, on Zs behalf, was responsible for the trading in the account.
Mr Hs allegations, on Zs behalf, are misconceived. He presided over trading in the 
account which made the losses and he now seeks to unfairly accuse LMAX, through 
irrelevant claims related to Mr K, of bearing responsibility for the losses. LMAX 
denies such responsibility entirely and the claims about Mr K do not alter this.
It was Mr Hs idea to use Mr K for (or to advise) trading in the account. He started 
trading on 21 May. He previously mentioned, in February, the plan to use another 
person (or Mr K) for trading. The Limited Power of Attorney (LPoA) document  
required to allow such third-party presence in the account  was issued to him to 
complete and return before any trading began. He never returned this document, but 
gave account login details to Mr K nevertheless. As a completed LPoA was not 
returned, the account was not set up for third-party access. Instead it was set up for 
access and trading only by Mr H, so LMAX bears no responsibility for him sharing 
login details and access with Mr K. Given that it was not responsible for policing the 
account, it could not have known that Mr K had enabled such third-party access. In 
fact, Mr H was in breach of the terms for the account by doing so without having the 
LPoA in place and without LMAXs consent.
For the above reasons, issue 2 and the complaint (as a whole) are inherently 
misguided and lacking in merit. LMAX did nothing that directly or indirectly caused 
the account loss that Z seeks to recover. All trades and trading decisions were 
remote to LMAX and were the sole responsibility of Mr H, who was the only person 
LMAX gave account access to.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that the complaint should be 
upheld. In the main, he said:
All matters raised by Mr H, on Zs behalf, amount to and support the claim for 
compensation that has been made in the complaint. 
Evidence shows that Mr H was introduced to the idea of leveraged trading in the 
account by Mr K (who he met through a mutual friend); that he intended to have Mr K 
trade in the account; and that LMAX was made aware of this early in the onboarding 
part of the account opening process  this is supported by the contents of telephone 
calls in February and is what led to LMAX issuing the LPoA to Mr H and chasing, 
without success, its completion (and return) thereafter. An email of 23 May, from 
LMAX to Mr H (and copied to Mr K), explained that an executed LPoA was required 
in order to give Mr K manual access to the account. This also showed there was a 
compliance need for the executed LPoA if the account was to operate with third-party 
access. In the absence of an executed LPoA, LMAXs position is that the account 
continued to function without third-party access.
Nevertheless, LMAX remained aware that Mr H planned to use Mr K for trading in the 
account and that Mr K was involved in trading within the account. There is evidence 
of this in the form telephone call recordings  featuring calls between LMAX and Mr K 
 in which the account, trading positions in the account and trading strategies were 
discussed. These telephone calls between LMAX and Mr K happened on 29 May, 12 
June, 2 July and 29 July. Besides showing LMAXs awareness of Mr Ks ongoing 
involvement in the account this evidence also shows that it continued to engage with 
Mr K  with regards to trading in the account  despite knowing he lacked authority to 
be involved in the account (because the LPoA for such involvement had not been 
completed and returned). 
LMAX says these telephone calls happened as a result of its extra diligence towards 
the account; in order to chase the LPoA; in order to discuss a particular open position 
that was of concern; in order to discover Mr Ks intentions for the account, 
subsequent to a face to face meeting with Mr H in which LMAX was told Mr K would 
be managing the account; and in order to discuss, with Mr K, inappropriate behaviour 
from Mr H. None of these alter the fact that, without the completed and returned 
LPoA, the account had nothing to do with Mr K.
Mr H should not have shared account log-in information with Mr K. However, it is 
LMAXs position that without the executed LPoA the account was to be treated as 
one without third-party access. Evidence shows that it did the opposite and aided   Mr Ks unauthorised third-party involvement in the account. This amounted to a lack 
of safeguarding by LMAX. According to the terms for the account LMAX was obliged 
to suspend the account following knowledge of the accounts security being breached 
or threatened. Mr Ks involvement in the account without an executed LPoA 
constituted such a security breach, so LMAX should have suspended the account  
but did not.
Irrespective of Mr Hs wrongdoing in sharing the accounts log-in information with    
Mr K, had LMAX acted as it should have by suspending the account upon knowledge 
of Mr Ks involvement in the account the subsequent trading losses would have been 
prevented. It is on this basis that LMAX bears responsibility for the complaint and for 
the loss claimed by Mr H, on Zs behalf. Evidence shows that LMAX had this 
knowledge from 29 May 2019 onwards, so its responsibility for loss incurred in the 
account should start from this date (with interest). Z should also pay £500 for the 
inconvenience caused in the matter.
In the main, Mr H (on Zs behalf) welcomed this outcome but he also claimed that Zs legal 
fees should be covered by a costs award.
LMAX disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said there 
were inconsistencies and contradictions in the investigators findings, and it requested a 
discussion with an ombudsman in this respect. In response, the investigator confirmed that 
its request will be presented for consideration by the deciding ombudsman.
Given the referral to an ombudsman, Mr H made submissions in which he asked for 
attention to the following:
Correlation between the four telephone calls highlighted by the investigation and the 
progression of losses in Zs trading account. That as of the call on 12 June the 
account had suffered a loss of around £42,000 over around two weeks since the call 
of 29 May; and that there is no mention of the LPoA throughout the former; that as of 
the call on 2 July the accounts total loss had increased to around £117,000 and 
there is also no mention of the LPoA in this call; and that as of the call on 29 July the 
accounts total loss had increased to around £139,000 and, again, there is no 
mention of the LPoA in the call.
There is ground to suspect that telephone calls happened between LMAX and Mr K 
after 1 August (when the account was closed with around £176,000 in losses), given 
the pattern of calls previously. Such calls have not been disclosed. LMAX should be 
required to disclose such calls (call recordings) and to disclose evidence to 
determine legitimacy of the DAS  as a part of addressing issue 3.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons he gave. I uphold Zs complaint. First, I address some preliminary 
points, then I present my findings.
It is evident from our records that the investigator took a thorough approach towards 
establishing the facts and relevant evidence in this matter. I have not seen the inconsistency and/or contradictions within his investigation outcome that LMAX refers to and it does not 
appear that LMAX gave any examples of either. As such, I do not address this point further.
As my findings below will illustrate  and as highlighted by the investigator  this matter has 
mainly been determined on the basis of available documentary and telephone recording 
evidence and in the context of LMAXs regulated obligations to safeguard Zs trading 
account. LMAX has had ample opportunity to present all the submissions it wishes to make. 
It appears to have done so. There is evidence that, prior to the investigators outcome, it 
considered it had presented everything it viewed relevant to the complaint and that it did not 
welcome additional enquiries from the investigator which it viewed irrelevant. 
I have considered LMAXs request for a discussion in light of the above. I am not persuaded 
such a discussion is required. I appreciate that LMAX might wish to discuss its views on the 
investigators findings. However, it has already summarised those views, as reflected above, 
and it does not appear to have said any more. In addition, I am satisfied that there is enough 
available information on all its submissions about the complaint.
I am also not persuaded by Zs claim for a costs award. It is usually this services approach 
that costs awards are not automatically issued just because a complaint is successful.  The 
regulators rules say such awards from this service are the exception  not the rule. I 
acknowledge that Zs complaint was competently presented by its solicitor, but I do not 
consider that there was a requirement for legal representations in order to progress the 
complaint. This service has addressed comparable complaints in which there were no legal 
representations on behalf of the complainant, so the same could have applied to Zs 
complaint. I have not seen reason to depart from our usual approach in this case.
The last preliminary point to address is Mr Hs invitation to investigate issue 3 further. I agree 
with the investigators approach towards the complaint, whereby it is viewed as a claim for 
compensation (for loss in the account) based on the wrongdoings alleged in the above 
numbered issues. I have adopted the same approach. The matter to determine is whether 
(or not) a ground(s) exists to uphold Zs claim for compensation. As I explain below, LMAXs 
failure to safeguard the account and the correlation between that and the loss incurred in the 
account provide the basis to uphold the complaint. In this context, there appears to be no 
added value in treating any issue in isolation.
Regulatory context
Article 40 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 2001 
(the RAO) defines the regulated activity of Safeguarding and Administering Investments. 
The regulators Handbook assists in summarising the definition as follows:
 the safeguarding of assets belonging to another and the administration of those assets 
 
and
(a) the assets consist of or include any security or contractually based investment (that is, 
any designated investment (other than a P2P agreement), funeral plan contract or right to or 
interest in a funeral plan contract); or
(b) the arrangements for their safeguarding and administration are such that the assets may 
consist of or include designated investments (other than P2P agreements), and either the 
assets have at any time since 1 June 1997 done so, or the arrangements have at any time 
(whether before or after that date) been held out as ones under which designated 
investments (other than P2P agreements) would be safeguarded and administered.The trading (in products such as forex and Gold) in Zs account is covered by the definition 
of designated investments (or Specified Investments under the RAO). The result is that 
LMAX had the regulated responsibility to safeguard the assets in Zs account. Guidance, at 
PERG 2.7.9 G of the regulators Perimeter Guidance Manual, says safeguarding relates to a 
firms role as custodian of the customers property. Such property/assets include money. In 
terms of Zs complaint, LMAX was the custodian of, and was charged with the responsibility 
to safeguard and protect, the capital deposit made by Z (or by Mr H, on Zs behalf) in the 
account. It follows that loss of any part of that capital can be relevant to the same 
responsibility. 
The above responsibility also made the following Principles  from the regulators Handbook 
 relevant:
Principle 2  a firms duty to conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  a firms duty to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
Principle 6  a firms duty to pay regard to the interests of its customers. [This 
Principle should be read alongside the regulators Clients best interests rule under 
COBS 2.1.1 R of its Conduct of Business Sourcebook.]
Principle 10  a firms duty to arrange adequate protection for its clients assets when 
it is responsible for them. 
Overall and in straightforward terms, LMAX could not have conducted itself reasonably in 
this case without adhering to each and all the expectations and requirements above.
LMAXs regulated obligation(s) and the facts
The regulators rules have the effect of strict application. As such, LMAXs responsibility to 
safeguard Zs account amounted to a strict liability that it alone was responsible for. It was 
also a liability reflected in the terms for its accounts and in the provisions, within those terms 
and within its overall practice, that required proper execution of an LPoA where third-party 
access or involvement was to exist in an account. As the investigator noted, this led to two 
further obligations:
Where an LPoA had not been executed, the relevant account was to be treated as 
one in which there was no third-party involvement; and
Where an LPoA had not been executed and where the account was being treated as 
one in which no third-party was involved, if LMAX discovered a breach in the security 
of the account (such as unauthorised third-party involvement) it was expected to 
suspend the account. In the context of its regulated safeguarding responsibility, I 
consider that it was required to suspend such an account until the security breach 
was resolved.
The telephone call recordings provide undisputable evidence that not only was LMAX aware 
of a breach in the security of Zs account  that is, the involvement of Mr K in trading within 
the account without an executed LPoA giving authority for his involvement  it actively 
engaged with and sustained that breach during each and every one of the four telephone 
conversations. It was discussing details (including trading details) of the account with an 
unauthorised third-party. Subjects such as trading volume, commission rate and trading strategy were discussed 
between LMAX and Mr K, and both expressed the joint understanding that Mr K was in 
charge of trading in the account  and was conducting trading in the account. An immediate 
observation is that this evidence calls into question LMAXs claim that it was not monitoring 
activities in the account. On balance, I consider that it was. In some of the calls LMAX can 
be heard vetting and giving opinions on Mr Ks trading strategy on particular trade positions. 
In addition, and as Mr H highlighted, there is no merit in its argument that the calls related to 
chasing the LPoA because the LPoA is not mentioned in most of the calls.
LMAX says Mr H caused the breach by sharing his log-in details with Mr K. Mr H was wrong 
in doing so. In addition, it could be said that he then acted in a conflicting manner by not 
granting Mr K the requisite LPoA. However, it must be accepted that Mr H, on Zs behalf, 
was not obliged to grant Mr K the LPoA. Not doing so of course mismatched the idea of Mr K 
managing or being involved in trading in the account. However, what should have happened 
is that LMAX ought to have made clear that Mr K could not be so involved until the LPoA 
was executed. LMAX has argued that it did this at the outset. However, the significant 
problem is that despite any effort it made in declaring this at the outset, it too subsequently 
behaved in a conflicting manner by engaging  on its own initiative and without any 
instruction from or, it appears, awareness by Mr H  with Mr K in the relevant four telephone 
calls and in relation to trading in the account.
Any wrongdoing alleged against Mr H does not dissolve or dilute LMAXs responsibility in 
this matter. It failed to discharge its responsibility to prevent unauthorised third-party access 
to and involvement in the account and it compounded that failure by facilitating the 
unauthorised third-party access and involvement it was supposed to prevent. 
As Mr H also highlighted, the second telephone conversation took place when the account 
had lost around £42,000 over the course of around two weeks, the third conversation 
happened when the account had lost a further £75,000 (approximately) in the space of 
around three weeks and the last conversation took place when the account had lost a further 
£22,000 (approximately) in the space of around four weeks. These are significant losses in 
relatively short periods of time. As noted above, evidence shows that LMAX was monitoring 
and was aware of the state of the account. In the call on 12 June, for example, it can be 
heard warning Mr K about loss sizes that might alarm a novice investor like Mr H and 
giving what sounds like guidance to Mr K on how to explain risk exposure to Mr H; and in the 
call of 29 July both can be heard discussing the need to break even in the account. 
Knowledge of unauthorised third-party access or involvement in the account was enough to 
trigger its safeguarding responsibility  in fact, that responsibility was triggered at the point 
where it should have prevented such access/involvement. Its inaction despite such 
knowledge and then with awareness of accumulating [and significant] losses in the account 
cannot be justified, irrespective of any fault it says Mr H has in the matter.
LMAX has argued that there is a lack of causation in the matter. I consider that causation 
has quite clearly been established. If, as of 29 May 2019 (at the latest and when it knew 
about Mr Ks involvement in the account) it suspended the account  as it was required to do 
by contract and by regulation  no further trading would have happened from that date; there 
is evidence that none of the loss claimed in this complaint had been incurred by that date; it 
could have adopted an unyielding position with regards to Mr K and the need for an 
executed LPoA; if Mr H continued to use Mr K without authority to do so and without LMAXs 
knowledge (and without any cause for LMAX to be aware) then LMAX could have a better 
argument for lack of causation; but, the facts show that it was LMAX who appears to have 
continued to engage Mr Ks unauthorised involvement in the account without, it appears,    
Mr Hs knowledge and despite the accumulating losses. These are grounds to conclude that, at best and at the very least, LMAX facilitated the 
financial loss; or, at worst, it could be argued that it participated in causing the financial loss. 
In the call of 2 July, for example, LMAX and Mr K discussed an incident at the time in which 
Mr H was expressing concern about risk exposure in an open Gold position which they both 
considered to be unwarranted and LMAX can be heard saying Mr H should be made to 
understand the need to let the trader trade and the need to avoid interrupting Mr Ks trading 
strategies.
I have also considered whether (or not) Mr H acted in any way to break the above causal link 
between LMAX and the financial loss. I have not seen evidence to establish this. I accept 
that Mr K obtained account log-in details from Mr H, but that did not prevent LMAX from 
discharging its regulatory safeguarding obligation in the manner addressed above. The facts, 
as evident in the telephone calls, show that it chose not to discharge that obligation.
Putting things right
 Zs desired outcome is summarised in issue 5. There are two aspects to it. It seeks 
compensation for the financial loss incurred in the account. In addition, it seeks disclosure 
and explanation of all transactions and activities within the account.
As I said above, the investigator took a thorough approach towards obtaining information 
about and evidence for the complaint, and therefore information about and evidence on the 
account. Disclosures have been sought and obtained from LMAX. I appreciate that Mr H, on 
Zs behalf, might take the view that more information about the account should be available 
and has not been disclosed. However, as I set out below, Z is to be compensated for its 
financial loss in the account. The result is that Z will be into a position where it can recover 
all the financial loss incurred. Compensation is to be calculated from 29 May 2019 onwards 
and on that date the account had not suffered any of the loss that Z claims compensation 
for. That loss arose thereafter and is covered by the award below. 
The compensation award is subject to the compensation limitation that I also set out below, 
so Z (and Mr H) should note this, but the idea is that the award should cover Zs loss in the 
account. I consider that this has the added effect of nullifying Zs (or Mr Hs) concerns and 
desire for disclosure about what happened in the account after 29 May 2019. With 
compensation for what happened after this date, such disclosure could be said to be 
redundant.
To compensate Z fairly, LMAX must pay Z (or Mr H, on Zs behalf) the total trading account 
balance as it was on 29 May 2019. If, separately, trading commission was incurred for the 
trading that took place thereafter the total of all such trading commission must also be paid 
to Z (or to Mr H, on Zs behalf) as part of the compensation. LMAX must pay interest on the 
total compensation amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from 29 May 2019 to the date 
of settlement. This is to compensate Z for being deprived the compensation capital from the 
former date. LMAX must also pay Z (or Mr H, on Zs behalf) £500 for the trouble and 
inconvenience caused by not having the safeguarding protection it was entitled to rely upon.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent 
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Zs complaint and I order LMAX Broker Limited to pay 
compensation as set out above. LMAX Broker Limited must also provide Z with a calculation 
of the compensation payment in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman