DRN-4047935
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Premier Insurance Company Limited handled a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy. She wants £250 further compensation and a refund of her 
premiums.
 
What happened
Mrs As car was hit whilst parked and she made a claim on her policy. But Mrs A was 
unhappy with how Premier handled the claim, causing delays in having repairs made and 
liability being established. She was also unhappy with its communication with her and that a 
suitable courtesy car wasnt provided. Premier agreed that it had caused delays and hadnt 
provided good communication. It offered Mrs A £500 compensation and it waived her £100 
policy excess. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He agreed Premier 
had caused Mrs A inconvenience and had communicated poorly with her. He thought 
Premier had reasonably offered to provide Mrs A with a letter saying that liability had been 
established. But he thought its offer of compensation was more than fair and reasonable. 
Mrs A replied that she didnt agree, so her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been a stressful and frustrating experience for Mrs A. Another 
driver reversed into her car. And then she had to deal with the claim and repairs at a difficult 
time for her family. From what I can see, she had to deal with Premier (as her insurer), a 
credit hire company and her broker. As these are separate businesses, I can only consider 
here Mrs As complaints about the service she received from Premier. 
Mrs A has agreed that the hire car issues followed discussions with her broker, not Premium. 
So I cant consider these here. Instead, Ill consider how Premier responded to Mrs As first 
complaints and whether it responded fairly and reasonably. 
Mrs As concerns were:
She had to twice repeat the details of the incident and raise the claim again. I can 
understand that this must have been frustrating for her. But I think Mrs A reported the 
claim initially to her broker and it didnt pass the details to Premier. So I cant reasonably 
hold Premier responsible for this delay. But I can see that she did unnecessarily have to 
repeat her details to Premier in a later call. 
Mrs A said she was told her car would be a write-off based on her description of the 
damage, before she had provided photographs, and before it had been assessed. But I 
dont think its unusual for insurers to rely on descriptions of damage to decide on the 
likelihood of repairs being economical to carry out. In any case, the car was later 
assessed by engineers who decided that it was economical to repair. So I cant see that 
this caused Mrs A any loss. 
The car was collected but the repairs werent authorised for two weeks. Mrs A was 
anxious about this as the cars tax was due and she didnt know whether to tax the car 
again. Premier incorrectly told Mrs A that it would have the repairs made or make a 
decision to write off her car before the tax was due. Premier accepted that it was 
responsible for this delay. 
Premier also accepted that promised calls back werent made and emails werent 
responded to, adding to Mrs As frustration and stress. 
There were delays in Premier contacting an independent witness to the incident. Mrs A 
thought this had caused delays in getting an acceptance of liability from the other 
insurer. But I havent seen evidence to show this. I think Premier was already pursuing 
the other insurer for an admission of liability, but this was challenged. 
There was a delay in completing the repairs. And Mrs A said she had to buy a 
replacement car. But I think this was Mrs As decision and I cant reasonably hold 
Premier responsible for this. 
Mrs A was unhappy that the open claim had led to an increase in her premium. From 
what I can see, liability has been accepted by the other insurer, but Premier hasnt yet 
received its repayment of its outlay. This means the claim remains open. I can 
appreciate Mrs As frustration, but I can see that Premier is chasing this up. In the 
meantime, I think it has reasonably offered to provide Mrs A with a letter to show her new 
insurer that liability has been accepted. I think its then for the new insurer to decide if it 
will rerate Mrs As premium. 
Premier accepted that it had caused avoidable delays in the claim and provided a poor level 
of customer service. To put things right, it waived Mrs As £100 policy excess and paid her 
£500 compensation. 
I think that was very fair and reasonable in the circumstances and more than we would ask a 
business to pay in keeping with our published guidance, So I dont require Premier to 
increase this or to refund Mrs As premiums in compensation. 
Mrs A was unhappy that she had to continue paying her premiums after she sold her car. 
But her insurance contract is for a full year, even though she paid it by monthly instalments. 
And, in the event of a claim, because the policy has been used, the premium is still payable 
in full to cover Premiers claim costs. I think this is in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions. 
Mrs A has also complained about further delays since Premier issued its response to her 
complaint. From what I can see, these relate to the liability decision. But, as Ive explained 
above, I think it has reasonably pursued the other insurer for acceptance of liability and to 
chase the repayment of its losses. 
I can also see that Mrs A has raised a further concern after Premier sent her its response to 
her first complaints. This concern is about another driver claiming Mrs A damaged their car 
after Mrs C had already sold her car. Mrs A is unhappy that Premier is treating an incident 
that occurred after she sold her car as a claim against her. 
I understand that Mrs A has raised this concern with Premier but its yet to respond, so a 
further complaint has been raised by our service. I cant comment further on this issue here, 
as Ive explained above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman