DRN-3376147
The complaint
Mr B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd will not refund all of the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a vehicle purchase scam.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail here. Briefly, Mr B found a van listed for sale on an auction website. Unfortunately, he 
was interacting with a fraudster who tricked him using the details of a genuine van. Mr B was 
duped into paying a deposit of £1,000 by bank transfer. 
Monzo is not a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code) but has agreed to adhere to it. This means Monzo has made a 
commitment to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams like 
this one except in limited circumstances.
Monzo says it can choose not to reimburse Mr B because he paid the deposit without a 
reasonable basis for believing the sale was legitimate. It says he didnt take enough steps to 
check who he was paying and what he was paying for. Monzo accepted that it did not 
contact the receiving bank quickly enough when Mr B first reported the scam. In its final 
response letter, it said it would refund 50% of the money lost.  
Mr B thought the bank should have refunded it all and referred his complaint to us. 
Our Investigator said Monzo should have fully reimbursed Mr B. She noted the seller gave 
him no cause for concern as they answered his questions and seemed knowledgeable. She 
placed weight on the fact they had spoken on the phone more than once and pointed out the 
seller had positive reviews on the auction website. She didnt think it was unreasonable for 
Mr B not to have physically inspected the van given it was a long round trip from where he 
lives. She noted that Mr B had done a vehicle history check online and that the bank account 
details hed paid matched the name of the seller he thought he was dealing with. She added 
it was sensible of Mr B to pay a deposit to hold the van rather than the full amount.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that, adhering to the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded 
the full £1,000 Mr B lost. Im not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
Ive carefully considered all Monzos representations about whether Mr B had a reasonable 
basis for believing the purchase was genuine. It has recently highlighted that Mr B did not 
check the vehicle with the DVLA, that he did not view it in person and that he didnt follow 
the steps explained on the auction website so did not do enough to keep himself safe. But 
Im not persuaded, in all the circumstances, that Mr B failed to take the requisite level of care 
required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse him under the terms of the CRM Code.
Weighing everything up, I dont think it would have been evident to Mr B that there was a risk 
with this purchase. The seller appeared to have a well-established profile on the auction 
website and the price of the van was realistic. The seller was forthcoming with a name, 
address and phone number and planned for Mr B to view the van. In one of the text 
messages Mr B has provided, the seller told him that the deposit was refundable. I think all 
of this when taken together would have lulled Mr B into a false sense of security. I dont think 
Mr B missed any obvious red flags that should have indicated to him there was a possibility 
that the van was not available or that the seller was not genuine.
Monzo has far superior knowledge of what scams like this look and feel like so its not 
surprising that it can think of further steps and checks that Mr B could have taken to try and 
protect himself. Mr B has explained that he proceeded after being satisfied with the 
communication with the seller and after hed undertaken his own research. People dont 
want or expect to be scammed and I think Mr B took reasonable and appropriate steps to try 
and protect himself. The information Mr B had indicated he was buying a van from a 
legitimate seller. I dont consider he had any reason to think the seller would not keep to their 
side of that bargain. The fact that the bank can think of additional things Mr B could have 
done does not mean that he did not do enough. Im also mindful that Monzo ought to be 
aware that fraudsters often use details of genuine vehicles so that even further checks arent 
guaranteed to show up concerns. Overall, I dont think Mr Bs actions fell below the level of 
care expected of him in this situation.
Putting things right 
 I understand that Monzo has already refunded half of the loss. In the circumstances, 
Monzo should therefore fairly and reasonably refund the remaining £500 to Mr B.
  Its not clear how Mr B would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it ought 
reasonably to have done. So it should also pay interest on the outstanding £500 at the 
simple rate of 8% per year (less any tax properly deductible) from the date Monzo declined 
Mr Bs full claim to the date of settlement.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman