DRN-3298304
The complaint
Ms M complains that Marks and Spencer Financial Services refuse to refund money she lost 
as the result of falling victim to an investment scam. 
What happened
On 20 September 2018, Ms M received a cold call by an individual purporting to represent a 
company Ill call G based in Cyprus. From the initial call until 1 October 2018, Ms M says 
she was the subject of aggressive and persuasive selling techniques for the purchase of 
Bitcoin. Ms M paid a total of £6,180 to G using her Marks and Spencer Mastercard credit 
card.
 
Ms M complained to Marks and Spencer and asked for further assistance. She says despite 
wanting to withdraw her funds, she was unable to do this and her trading account was 
reduced to £109.76 in a matter of days. She says G did not provide her with any 
documentation to show what she had purchased or any transaction details. 
Ms M says she is a vulnerable pensioner who has lost a substantial amount of money. 
She provided copies of emails she sent to G but they didnt want to address her accusations 
in writing and instead wanted to speak to her over the phone. Ms M states Marks and 
Spencer were jointly and severally liable for the losses she suffered as a result of G under 
section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Marks and Spencer reviewed Ms Ms complaint and didnt agree she had any recovery 
options in accordance with the Mastercard chargeback scheme or section 75. Ms M referred 
the complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators suggested that Marks and Spencer return Ms Ms money. Marks 
and Spencer didnt agree. It said that a valid claim under section 75 hadnt been proved. 
The complaint was passed to me for determination. 
I wrote to Ms M on 26 January 2021 with my provisional thoughts. I explained that G 
appeared to be regulated when she entered into an agreement with them. I also explained 
they had their own complaints process and were still in operation. I invited Ms M to provide 
any evidence of her making a withdrawal request. 
Ms M replied and said she was very disappointed to see that my opinion differed to that of 
our investigator. She said our investigator made clear findings that G made 
misrepresentations to her and breached her contract with them. Ms M invited me to explain 
why it was not a scam and was unaware she could escalate her complaint about them to a 
comparable Ombudsman scheme. She felt the evidence of G refusing to write to her was 
sufficient to evidence they were operating a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint and Ill explain why. 
Section 75 gives a debtor (Ms M) the right to pursue a like claim for breach of contract 
and/or misrepresentation against a creditor (Marks and Spencer) as they would have against 
the supplier of goods or services (G). 
In this instance, Ms M says she was pressured into depositing money onto a fraudulent 
trading account. She says she was not provided with details of how to withdraw her 
investment. Ms M also says that G didnt want to respond to her written concerns and 
instead, suggested she speaks to them over the phone. 
I empathise with Ms Ms losses but Im afraid shes not established a valid misrepresentation 
or breach of contract claim under section 75. 
Its evident from Ms Ms complaint letter to Marks and Spencer that she lost money on trades 
as she says she was unable to withdraw her funds and her account was reduced in a matter 
of days to £109.76. 
But some high-risk investment bets on the performance of (e.g.) commodities, 
cryptocurrency or stocks may have resulted in very disappointing returns or losses. Some 
investment traders may have promoted these products using sales methods that were 
arguably unethical. However, whilst customers who lost out may understandably regard such 
acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet the high legal threshold or 
burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false representation and/or failing to 
disclose information with the intention of making a gain for himself or of causing loss to 
another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
Ive considered what information is available about G that might corroborate Ms Ms 
allegation that G was a fraudulent company but Ive not found any credible evidence to 
suggest it was. At the time of Ms Ms dealings with G they were regulated by the Cyprus 
Securities and Exchange Commission and are still in operation. So Im not persuaded they 
were a fraudulent company. 
I do recognise they didnt respond to Ms Ms concerns in writing and suggested they speak 
to her on the phone. This no doubt is poor customer service but is not evidence of fraud. 
I asked Ms G if she had any evidence that she tried to withdraw her money from her trading 
account. She explained that she raised concerns with G that she hadnt been provided with 
passwords. But she must have been provided with access to a trading account because she 
says in her complaint to Marks and Spencer that her account balance was significantly 
reduced in a matter of days. I think its more likely that she lost significant sums in what were 
high risk trades. I accept Ms M may have been misled about the risks involved with the 
investment and entered into an agreement with G on the basis of misrepresentations. But 
Ive not been provided with any persuasive information that would lead me to conclude that 
this happened. Ive also not seen any persuasive evidence that G otherwise breached their 
contract with her.  
It follows that Ms M has not established a valid claim under section 75, so I wont be telling 
Marks and Spencer to do anything differently. My final decision
My final decision is that, despite my natural sympathies for Ms Ms loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman