DRN-3061500
The complaint
Mr L complains about the actions of NewDay Ltd when he was tricked into making payments 
on his credit card as a result of a scam. 
What happened
In 2015 Mr L came across a merchant Ill refer to as A. At As request Mr L made fifteen 
payments from his NewDay credit card (but to different merchants than A), from October 
2016 to May 2017, for a total of £4,444.95. 
After initially seeing his portfolio increase Mr L asked to withdraw some funds - but A 
refused. After doing some additional research on A, he realised he had fallen victim to a 
scam. He contacted NewDay in 2020 but it said he hadnt raised a claim for a chargeback in 
time. It did offer to refund him £120 for one transaction but NewDay then said this was 
offered by mistake. Mr L remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said NewDay hadnt 
treated Mr L unfairly when it didnt raise chargeback claims for him because there was no 
reasonable prospect of success due to the claim being raised too late. And because the 
payments werent sent directly to A this broke the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier chain to 
make a successful S.75 claim. She added that she didnt think the transactions were unusual 
so NewDay didnt treat Mr L unfairly when allowing them to be sent. 
Mr L disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said that he was clearly the 
victim of a sophisticated scam and NewDay had seriously failed in its responsibility to protect 
him from financial harm. He said that at the time of the scam he was in a very vulnerable 
situation and emotional/psychological state which was exploited by the scam companies. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Mr L has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know he 
feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a disappointment to him, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive firstly considered whether NewDay shouldve done more to stop all the payments Mr L 
made towards this scam. It is common ground that Mr L authorised the scam payments 
totalling around £4,444. I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr L was 
the victim of a scam. So, although it wasnt his intention to pay money to the scammers, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) and the terms of his account, Mr L is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate
for NewDay to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
in order to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, I have looked into what this means for this case and whether NewDay should have done 
more here to prevent the payments in dispute.
Here, Mr L sent various payments over a matter of months to various merchants. The 
payments were for relatively small amounts, ranging from £82 to £500. And because the 
payments were made over a period of time, they created a pattern of spending on Mr Ls 
account that wouldnt have seemed unusual. So, I dont think the payments were so unusual 
that NewDay shouldve stopped them and asked further questions of Mr L. Because of this, I 
dont think NewDay missed an opportunity to prevent the fraud from taking place. 
Chargeback and S.75
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. NewDay) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting 
(or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Mr L.
Here Mr L raised the claim more than 120 days after the transactions were sent which 
means he was out of time under Mastercards rules, to make a chargeback.
Unfortunately, Mr L didnt pay A directly. And as the investigator mentioned, one of the 
requirements to bring a successful S.75 claim is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement. But 
because I cant see any evidence that link any of the merchants Mr L paid to A I think the 
required debtor-creditor-supplier chain is broken. 
As a result, NewDay didnt treat Mr L unfairly by not raising a chargeback or S.75 claim.
 
I note Mr Ls mentioned his personal circumstances and health made him vulnerable at the 
time. I appreciate Mr L was going through a difficult period with his health. However, Ive not 
seen any evidence that NewDay was aware of this at the time of the scam and shouldve 
therefore acted differently. 
Im sorry to hear Mr L has been a victim in this way, but I dont think NewDay are responsible 
for his loss and so I cant fairly ask them to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 Mark Dobson
Ombudsman