DRN-2818379
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Vauxhall Finance plc 
(Vauxhall Finance).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs P acquired her car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result 
our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs P responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned 
in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive considered the photographs of the damage that are provided in the inspection 
report completed at handover. The investigator has set out the standard required 
under the BVRLA guidance correctly and I agree with his assessment, that each area 
of damage that Vauxhall Finance are still charging for, is beyond what would be 
considered fair wear and tear.
I understand Mrs P believes Vauxhall Finance should have considered the mileage 
and age of her car when it was supplied to her. I accept there may have been some 
wear and tear especially to the mechanical components of the car. But I dont think 
its likely Mrs P would have agreed to finance a car that had body work damage. And 
I think Vauxhall Finances offer, to reduce the outstanding charges by 50%, more 
than compensates for any damage Mrs P may have been likely to miss when 
collecting the car. 
Mrs P says she wasnt given an opportunity to be present at the inspection because 
of Covid regulations. The BVRLA dont insist businesses allow customers to attend 
and, given the photographic evidence, I think its likely the damage reported was 
present on the car.
Mrs P is upset that the business didnt carry out repairs but are charging her for 
them. The BVRLA guidance explains that charges can still be applied at end of 
lease in cases were the leasing company decides for commercial reasons not to 
repair the damage. So, I dont think Vauxhall Finance did anything wrong when 
selling the car before repairing it. The charges they subsequently asked Mrs P to pay 
were to compensate them for any loss in sales value they achieved as a result of the 
damage.
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman