DRN-4463557
Complaint
Mr H has complained about a credit card and subsequent credit limit increases NewDay Ltd 
(trading as Marbles) provided to him. He says the credit card was not affordable for him 
and so shouldnt have been provided.
Background
Marbles provided Mr H with a credit card with an initial limit of £900 in February 2022. Mr Hs 
credit limit was increased to £1,500.00 in August 2022; and £2,350.00 in November 2022.  
When it reviewed Mr Hs complaint, Marbles accepted it shouldnt have offered the second 
credit limit increase to Mr H. And it agreed to refund all interest, fees and charges Mr H paid 
on balances above £1,500.00 as a result. As this is in line with what wed tell a lender to do 
in the event we were to uphold a complaint about a lending decision weve not looked into 
the circumstances behind the second limit increase. 
One of our investigators then reviewed what Mr H and Marbles had told us. And she thought 
Marbles hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly in relation to providing the 
credit card in February 2022 or increasing the credit limit in August 2022. So she thought 
that what Marbles had already agreed to do to put things right for Mr H was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Hs complaint.
Marbles needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Marbles needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr H 
could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Marbles says it initially agreed to Mr Hs application after it obtained information on his 
income and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr H 
would be able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. Due to Mr Hs 
account being relatively well managed he was then offered the credit limit increase to 
£1,500.00. 
On the other hand Mr H says that he shouldnt have been lent to and the credit was provided 
at a time when he was a student with earnings of £7,500.00 a year.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Marbles decision to provide Mr H with a credit card with a limit of £900
Whats important to note is that Mr H was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that to start with Marbles was required to understand whether a 
credit limit of £900 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than all in one 
go. A credit limit of £900 required relatively low monthly payments in order to clear the full 
amount owed within a reasonable period of time. 
The information Marbles has provided shows that Mr H declared an annual income of 
£7,400.00, he had low levels of existing debt and no adverse information recorded against 
him. Mr H says that Marbles would have seen a credit card with another provider. I think that 
it did and thats the existing debt that shows on the credit search.
Given the information Marbles obtained and what it showed, Im satisfied that Marbles was 
entitled to rely on Mr Ms declaration of income and what it had seen in the credit checks 
which led it to determine that an initial credit of £900 was affordable for Mr H. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that the checks carried out before Mr H was initially provided 
with his credit card were reasonable and proportionate.
The credit limit increase
For the first credit limit increase, it appears as though Marbles mainly relied on Mr Hs 
account having been managed well in the six months or so since it had been opened. From 
what can see Mr H used almost all of the credit available to him as soon as he opened his 
account.
However, Im mindful that Mr H did make inroads into what he owed by the time he was 
offered his limit increase. He owed just under £900 on his February 2022 statement and this 
was reduced to just under £650 in the month before the limit increase was offered. 
Furthermore, the external credit checks carried out didnt show that Mr Hs indebtedness 
was increasing elsewhere either. 
Again, I havent seen anything to indicate that an account with another provider hasnt been 
included in Marbles searches. But if an entry was amended because Mr H made a 
successful complaint, Marbles could only consider what it saw. And if this was the amended 
entry then this is what I would expect it to take into account.
In any event, its fair to say there were some reasonable indications that Mr Hs account 
management might have suggested the credit limit increase was affordable, given his 
balance was coming down by around the amount of any likely increased monthly payments. 
That said, I do think that there is a reasonable argument for saying that it would have been 
proportionate for Marbles to find out a bit more about Mr Hs regular living costs before 
offering the credit limit increase. As Marbles didnt obtain this information, Ive considered the information Mr H has provided 
with a view to deciding what it might have found out about Mr Hs regular living costs had it 
asked him about this. To be clear this isnt the same as asking Mr H for his bank statements, 
as given the amounts involved here, I dont think that asking for this information would have 
been proportionate in the circumstances.
Having carefully thought about matters, I dont think that Marbles would have made a 
different decision, when offering the credit limit increase, even if it had asked Mr H for more 
information. I say this because the information Mr H has provided about his finances at the 
time appears to show that when his committed regular living expenses and existing credit 
commitments were deducted from the funds going into his account, he did have the funds, at 
the time at least, to sustainably make the repayments due. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought about what Mr H has said about being a student. 
But the evidence hes provided suggests that he was in a position to repay what would have 
been a relatively low monthly payment. And, in these circumstances, its difficult for me to 
conclude that Marbles would have found out that Mr H didnt have sufficient funds to make 
the repayments for the increased credit limit of £1,500.00. This is even if it had tried to find 
out more about his circumstances at this time. 
Its possible that Mr Hs position might have been worse than what it looks like, or that it 
worsened after the credit limit increases took place. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for 
me to use hindsight here, or say that Marbles should have known this was the case. This is 
especially as the available information indicates proportionate checks (rather than a forensic 
analysis of Mr Hs bank statements) would more likely than not have shown that Mr H could 
repay what he could owe at the time the lending decision was made. 
So overall while I can understand Mr Hs sentiments, I dont think that Marbles treated Mr H 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his credit card in February 2022 or 
subsequently increasing his credit limit to £1,500.00 in August 2022. As this is the case, Im 
satisfied that what Marbles has already offered to do to put things right for Mr H is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances and Im not requiring to do anything further. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope hell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Fair compensation  what Marbles needs to do to put things right for Mr H
Having carefully considered everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable, in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ms complaint, for Marbles to put things right in the following way (which 
it has already agreed to do):
rework Mr Hs account to ensure that from November 2022 interest is only charged 
on the first £1,500.00 outstanding - to reflect the fact that the second credit limit 
increase should not have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; 
if an outstanding balance remains on Mr Hs account once all adjustments have been 
made Marbles should contact Mr H to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Hs credit file, it should 
backdate this to when it shouldnt have provided the additional credit in question in 
the first place; 
if the effect of all adjustments results in there no longer being an outstanding 
balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr H along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date they were made 
until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance remains on Mr H account after 
all adjustments have been made, then Marbles should remove any adverse 
information it has recorded from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Marbles to take off tax from this interest. Marbles must 
give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what NewDay Ltd has already agreed to do 
for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. And Im not 
requiring it to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman