DRN-1686495
 
The complaint
Mr M says MBNA Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy was added to 
Mr Ms credit card account when he applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint because:
           I think MBNA made Mr M aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I 
say this because he did tick the box on the application form to say that he wanted the cover, 
and the option to decline it was in the same section of the form. Mr M applied for his credit 
card and the PPI by post, so I'm not persuaded that MBNA put him under pressure to buy 
the policy.
           MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. Mr M had to decide for himself whether the PPI was something that would be useful 
to him.
           Its possible the information MBNA gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr M chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr M would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think he would still 
have taken out the policy. 
 
 
 
 My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman