DRN-1801975
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Police Mutual Assurance Society Limited (Police Mutual) 
misled them about the terminal bonus on their endowment policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had several endowment policies with Police Mutual. They say it told them that, 
when the policies matured, a terminal (or final) bonus would be paid on top of the projected 
values set out in their statements. But when they received a maturity statement in 2019, they 
discovered the expected final bonus had already been factored into the projections theyd 
received. They complained to Police Mutual, which admitted it had given Mr M incorrect 
information during a call in August 2015. It apologised, but said the information it had 
provided before and since then, both over the phone and in writing, should have made it 
clear how the bonus worked.
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs M referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didn't uphold the complaint. Despite the lack of clarity in the 2015 call, she was 
satisfied Police Mutual had since explained the terminal bonus correctly during calls and in 
writing. So she didn't think Mr and Mrs M would or should have reasonably relied on the 
incorrect information. They didn't accept this. They said Police Mutual should pay out what 
they were expecting, train its staff properly, and amend its documents. As no agreement was 
reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator.
Our service isn't the financial regulator. We don't 'police' business's internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Nor do we make punitive awards. Ultimately, what I've 
considered is   did Police Mutual mislead Mr and Mrs M? If so, does it need to take any 
action (such as paying compensation) to remedy the impact this had on them? 
To provide some brief context about Mr and Mrs Ms endowment policies, they're investment 
savings plans that also provide life cover. They offer a guaranteed minimum maturity value, 
with the potential for a final bonus to be paid on top of this. Whether it is  and if so, how 
much  depends on how well the underlying investment fund performs, as well as other 
factors such as the providers costs. 
Police Mutual sent Mr and Mrs M yearly statements which included projections for how much 
the policies were likely to be worth when they matured. Having listened to the 2015 call, I 
agree it could have given Mr M the impression that the final bonus would be paid on top of 
these projected maturity values. But Ive also considered the wider context. In the call, Police 
Mutual advised Mr M to review his statement. This, along with the other statements Ive 
seen, explained that the projections for what the policies might be worth at maturity 
include[d] an allowance for any final bonus. Additionally, when Mr M called Police Mutual in November 2017, it was discussed and agreed that the final bonus would be paid on top of 
the guaranteed amount  rather than the projected maturity value. 
So, thinking about the impact of Police Mutuals error, Im not persuaded it needs to take 
action to remedy this. I say this because Im satisfied overall that the written information and 
later phone contact made it clear how the final bonus would be calculated. And that it gave 
Mr and Mrs M a reasonable idea of how much the policies would be worth at maturity  
whilst making it clear this was subject to risk, so could go up or down. I haven't seen 
anything to suggest that, but for the 2015 call, Mr and Mrs M would have made other 
financial arrangements. So I'm not persuaded that, if the bonus had been explained more 
clearly during the 2015 call, they'd be in a different financial position. Nor do I have concerns 
about the other information Police Mutual provided regarding the bonus.
I realise this will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs M. But, based on what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded Police Mutual needs to take any further action to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman