DRN-3228936
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a claim he made on his Amtrust Europe Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy. 
All references to Amtrust include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr W made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy for cover to dispute his late 
Stepfathers will. 
Amtrust accepted the claim in the first instance and passed it to its panel firm to assess. The 
panel firm said Mr Ws claim had reasonable prospects of success and asked Amtrust to 
authorise pursuing the claim. 
Whilst this was ongoing Mr W registered a caveat against his late Stepfathers will to prevent 
the executors from obtaining a Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration being issued by 
the Probate Registry. This in turn meant the beneficiaries werent able to receive what they 
were left in the will. Around the time the panel firm were asking Amtrust for funding to 
contest the will, Mr W and his siblings started receiving letters from the beneficiaries 
solicitors threatening legal action against them if they didnt remove the caveat. As such the 
panel firm chased Amtrust for a response on funding given the impending threat.
In response Amtrust confirmed they were prepared to offer funding but subject to an ongoing 
assessment of prospects of success, as required by the policy. They also noted that Mr W 
wanted to contest the will with his two siblings. As those siblings werent covered under his 
legal expenses insurance policy, Amtrust said theyd only pay one third of the costs incurred 
in the claim. 
Mr W was unhappy with this and said he couldnt proceed with the claim in this way. He went 
on to instruct his own solicitor on a conditional fee arrangement to help him with the threat of 
proceedings hed received from the beneficiaries of the will about the caveat applied to it. He 
also asked Amtrust to cover his solicitors costs. Amtrust said they couldnt do this as his 
policy didnt allow freedom of choice of solicitor until proceedings were necessary and 
repeated their earlier position about only covering one third of the costs of any action by Mr 
W and his two siblings.
Mr W then got in touch to say one of his siblings had the benefit of legal expenses insurance 
cover and asked for two thirds of the claim to be funded by Amtrust. Amtrust said any 
insurance claims made by his siblings would be considered separately and that they would 
only fund one third of a collective claim.  
Mr W remained unhappy with the position. He complained to Amtrust that they hadnt told 
him about the limit they were applying on funding at the outset of his claim and there was 
nothing in the policy which supported this. Amtrust considered things further. They accepted 
they should have told Mr W from the outset that they wouldnt cover a claim in full for parties 
that didnt have the benefit of cover. Because of this they offered him £150 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W remained unhappy. The solicitor he employed advised him to consent to removing the 
caveat registered against the will given the impending threat of proceedings by the 
beneficiaries. Mr W agreed to this. In response, the beneficiaries sought their costs incurred 
in dealing with the caveat issue. Mr W asked Amtrust if theyd fund defending the claim for 
costs against him. Amtrust declined. They said the policy only offered legal cover to pursue 
claims under the probate section of the policy rather than defend them. 
 Mr W complained to us about the foregoing. He wants Amtrust to cover his claims. Our 
investigator considered his complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said the policy 
only provided cover for him in this claim and not his siblings, so it was fair for Amtrust to offer 
funding one third of the costs to contest the will. He also thought the offer Amtrust made of 
£150 in compensation was fair. In addition he said Amtrust didnt do anything wrong when 
turning down Mr Ws own solicitors costs, confirming they wouldnt fund two thirds of the 
claim because Mr Ws sister had the benefit of legal expenses insurance and declining 
defending a claim for costs by the beneficiaries.
Mr W doesnt agree with the investigator. He says hes never seen a copy of the policy terms 
and he doesnt think they support what Amtrust says. He also says that his home insurers 
legal helpline have told him theyve never come across a policy term about only paying a 
proportion of costs. He feels the offer of £150 in compensation is meaningless given the 
amount of money at stake if he and his siblings lose the benefit of the assets under his late 
Stepfathers will. He also says the costs of the action would be the same regardless of how 
many siblings he has, so its reasonable for Amtrust to pay the entirety of the claim. Mr W 
also questions what would happen if the beneficiaries of the current will pursue him only for 
costs and not his siblings. Because of this the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why. Ive provided my 
reasoning under the headings below for ease of reference.
The claim to contest the will
The starting point is the policy terms, which Mr W says he hasnt seen before. Ive quoted 
the relevant parts below, but the investigator will be sending a copy of these terms to Mr W 
together with this decision. I can see from the papers Amtrust provided that they also sent a 
copy of these terms to Mr W by email in October 2020.
In particular, the policy covers:
Probate
Advisers costs to pursue a legal action in respect of a probate dispute involving the will of 
your parents, grandparents, children, step-children or adopted children where you are 
contesting a will as a named beneficiary, or as a member of a class of beneficiaries with an 
immediate interest.
You/Your is defined as The person (or people, if a joint policyholder is named) named as 
the policyholder on your current policy documents and your family.Family is defined as Your spouse/partner, children, foster children, parents and any other 
relative who permanently lives with you at your home address.
The claim Mr W wished to bring was on behalf of himself and his two siblings to contest his 
late Stepfathers will. His siblings arent named on the policy documents and they dont live 
with him permanently at his home address. So, I think it was reasonable for Amtrust to offer 
to fund one third of a claim which is intended to be brought by two other people who arent 
covered under the policy. Thats because the policy simply doesnt extend to them.
Mr W is right that there isnt a specific term that says one third of the costs of this action are 
payable- rather its the fact that the policy doesnt cover his siblings that leads to this 
position. But that doesnt mean that Amtrust should fund the entire action on behalf of him 
and his siblings. I realise that the costs of the action might be similar regardless of how many 
siblings he has- but I dont think that makes a difference. Amtrust arent required to fund an 
action for people that arent covered by the policy. So, I dont think theyve acted unfairly by 
declining to cover the entire claim.
After reviewing this complaint, I asked Amtrust for clarity about whether they would be 
prepared to fund a claim by Mr W alone to contest his late Stepfathers will. Amtrust said 
they would have been prepared to fund Mr Ws costs entirely had he wanted to contest the 
will alone and if he was the only person doing this, subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. They also went on to say that Mr W said he would be contesting the 
will on behalf of himself and his siblings- who arent covered under the policy, which is why 
they werent prepared to fund the claim in its entirety. 
I think Amtrusts position on this issue is reasonable. If Mr W decides to contest the will 
alone and without his siblings being joined into the litigation, I would expect Amtrust to 
reconsider its position, whether or not his siblings derive some benefit from the remedy hes 
seeking. Thats because the policy does provide cover for Mr W to contest a will in 
circumstances where he is a named beneficiary or as a member of a class of beneficiaries 
with an immediate interest. From what I understand, Mr W was a named beneficiary, but the 
will was updated when Mr W says his Stepfather lacked mental capacity. And the terms of 
the policy dont say that other parties cant benefit from the claim being made to contest the 
will as a consequence. I think the issue here is that Mr W wants his siblings to be joined into 
the claim. But thats not something that Amtrust is required to fund. If Mr W changes his 
mind and decides he wants to contest the will alone he can go back to Amtrust about this. 
I know Mr W asked if Amtrust would fund two thirds of a claim given his sister has the benefit  
of legal expenses insurance. I agree with Amtrusts stance on this issue. Mr Ws sister would 
need to claim on her own policy and find out whether she has cover. If so, its possible that 
her insurer would consider funding a claim jointly with Amtrust. But without that claim being 
made and Mr Ws sisters position being ascertained, I dont think Amtrust can comment on 
the matter further, beyond saying that theyre only prepared to fund Mr Ws costs of a claim- 
which in this case would amount to one third of the costs incurred by the three parties 
contesting the will.
Information given to Mr W about funding
Mr W is unhappy that Amtrust didnt tell him they wouldnt fund the entire claim from the 
outset. Amtrust accept they could have been clearer on this issue and have offered £150 in 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused. Mr W doesnt feel this represents what he 
stands to lose.Amtrust havent offered compensation for turning down the claim. As Ive said above, I think 
they were right to offer funding on the terms they did in reliance of the policy terms. Theyve 
offered compensation for not being clear from the outset on what they would fund. Ive 
looked carefully at the correspondence between Mr W and Amtrust and I can see that very 
early on Amtrust did say The policy is only in place to cover you and your spouse/partner, 
children and any other relative who permanently lives with you. but they didnt explain what 
this would mean in terms of funding if other parties were going to be joined into the claim. It 
was only after the panel firm assessed the claim and felt it had reasonable prospects of 
success that Amtrust said theyd pay one third of the claim. I think the offer of £150 is 
reasonable given the delay in explaining things. 
I know Mr W feels hed already invested time and effort in making the claim and providing all 
the information but Im not sure he would necessarily have done anything differently- like 
pursued the claim any earlier with another solicitor, such that it would have given him any 
significant time or financial benefit. The solicitor Mr W did eventually instruct was on a 
conditional fee arrangement. And he was only instructed to deal with the caveat issue rather 
than contest the will at the point where Amtrust said theyd only pay one third of the fees of a 
claim. I think that what Mr W should be compensated for is the frustration he would have felt 
after being told of the limit on funding a few months after making the claim. And I think the 
sum offered adequately compensates him for this. If Mr W wishes to accept this amount, he 
should contact Amtrust directly. 
Choice of solicitor
Mr W is unhappy that Amtrust wouldnt fund his own solicitors costs in contesting the will. 
The policy says:
If a claim is accepted under this insurance, we will appoint our panel solicitors, or their 
agents, to handle your case. You are not covered for any other legal representatives fees 
unless it is necessary to start court proceedings, or a conflict of interest arises
Its common for legal expenses insurance policies to contain such a term and its consistent 
with the relevant laws applicable to freedom of choice. Regulation 6 of the Insurance 
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 says: 
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other 
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the 
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that 
lawyer (or other person)
The phrase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court 
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry, such as a tribunal. 
Mr Ws claim has never been litigated. That means proceedings have never been issued. 
And in the absence of anything to suggest that there was a conflict of interest in appointing 
the panel firm, I cant see that he had freedom to choose his own solicitor at any point during 
his claim with Amtrust. And even if things had reached that point, Mr W decided he  didnt 
want to pursue things further because Amtrust would only fund one third of his costs in a 
claim by him and his siblings.  Because of this, I dont think Amtrust did anything wrong by 
not offering him the option to instruct his own solicitor as he wasnt entitled to this, either in 
accordance with the policy terms, or as a matter of law. 
Costs associated with removal of the caveat to the willI said above that the policy only covered Advisers costs to pursue a legal action in 
respect of a probate dispute involving the will of your parents, grandparents, children, step-
children or adopted children where you are contesting a will as a named beneficiary, or as a 
member of a class of beneficiaries with an immediate interest.
Like Amtrust, I dont think the costs that are being claimed either against Mr W personally or 
against his siblings or all three of them in relation to this issue attract funding under the 
policy. They might have been wrapped up in a claim for contesting the will if they formed  
part of that action but as things stand, they appear to fall outside of this. Mr W applied the 
caveat himself. He then instructed a solicitor to deal with a claim against him and his siblings 
to remove the caveat rather than contest the will. He subsequently agreed to the caveat 
being removed but is now being asked to pay the costs incurred as a result of applying the 
caveat in the first place. So, hes effectively defending a claim for costs. Thats not covered 
by the policy terms Ive mentioned. So, I cant say Amtrust have done anything wrong.
For the avoidance of doubt, the position on cover as I see it is the same, whether the 
beneficiaries pursue Mr W directly for these costs or all three siblings.
I appreciate this decision will be disappointing for Mr W but he still does have the option to 
pursue the claim for contesting the will alone, should he wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Amtrust Europe 
Limited
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman