DRN-3962049
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to solar panel 
systems she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs R is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In November 2018, Mrs R purchased two solar panel systems (which together I will refer to 
as the system) from a company which Ill call P. She financed the purchase through a 10-
year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. 
In May 2022, the CMC made a claim under section 75 and section 140 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. she said that P had made the following misrepresentations that had induced 
Mrs R to enter into the contract: and made her relationship with Shawbrook unfair on her. 
The system would be self-funding in that its benefits would at least match the 
monthly loan repayments. 
The system would pay for itself within 8 years.
The CMC also mentioned a number of other issues, including:
The hot water controller wasnt installed. 
Mrs R was told shed receive a £500 fee for referring a friend to P. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs R or 
that her relationship with Shawbrook was unfair on her. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mrs R and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
the CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
Mrs R was told the system was self-funding and the quote contradicts this. 
She wasnt showed the whole quote during the sales meeting and was only sent this 
later. 
She relied on what she had been told. 
Although P said it would pay her the referral fee, and she signed an acceptance form 
for this in 2019, she did not receive the payment. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75, and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs R paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs R could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 140 allows the courts to consider if a relationship between a creditor and debtor is 
unfair on the debtor, including by taking into account linked agreements, such as the sale of 
a solar panel system purchased with a point-of-sale loan.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs R and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs R says that during a sales meeting she was told that the system would be entirely self-
funding and the benefits would at least match the monthly loan repayments.
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mrs Rs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mrs Rs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the cash price, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.On balance Im satisfied that Mrs R was told that the cost of the system was £15,330.00, the 
monthly payment was £183.88, the total amount of credit was £15,230 and the total amount 
payable would be £22,165.60.
Overall, Im satisfied that P made it clear that although the cost of the system was 
£15,330.00, it would cost Mrs R more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an 
interest-bearing loan. 
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments
The quote shows the estimated FIT payments in year one and on average over 20 years as 
follows:
I think it is clear from this that Mrs R could expect to receive a total FIT income in year one of 
£424.31. This would be an average monthly income of £35.35. This is less than the monthly 
loan repayment of £183.88. I think these figures wouldve been discussed with Mrs R, so Im 
not able to conclude that the Mrs R was told that the monthly loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs R could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £764.64 and the combined income and savings in 
year one is shown as £1,647.23. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The quote contains a graph titled your average annual returns over 25 years with RPI and 
increase in electricity costs against the monthly cost of the system. This clearly shows that 
the monthly payments would not initially be covered by the benefits, and that the system 
would pay for itself, including the loan interest, in the 11th year.
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 120 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mrs R entered into with Shawbrook. This 
table shows the loan as repayable in 120 monthly payments of £183.98. 
For each year of the 10-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the monthly loan repayment of 
£183.98, to give an average difference between the monthly return from the system and the 
monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think this clearly shows that average monthly returns would be less than the loan 
repayment at the start of the loan term. 
In summary, I think that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting. So, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mrs R 
was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments alone.
Self-funding
I have found that Mrs R was not told the system would be immediately self-funding. 
However, I do accept that Mrs R was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by the end of year 11 the overall benefits that 
Mrs R could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan 
agreement. 
Im satisfied that P told Mrs R that the system would pay for itself by the end of year 11, and 
this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an untrue statement of 
fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the contract, and she 
subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs R. I have looked at Mrs Rs FIT statements and Im satisfied 
that the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mrs R hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs R 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs R entered into the 
contract.
As Ive found there was no misrepresentation by, this cant have created an unfair 
relationship between Shawbrook and Mrs R. Shawbrook has confirmed that no commission 
was paid to P for arranging the loan. So, I have no reason to think the relationship between 
Shawbrook and Mrs R was unfair on her. 
In regards to the other issues mentioned, these seem to have been resolved or can be by 
Mrs R contacting P. The hot water controller wasnt installed, and Mrs R agreed to a refund 
of £600 in relation to this. So, that issue is not ongoing. 
P agreed to pay her the referral fee, an offer she accepted in April 2019. P says this was 
paid to her a month later, but she says it wasnt. Mrs R can resolve this by contacting P to 
obtain evidence of the payment or to request it be made. I do not think Shawbrook need be 
involved in this issue. 
Ive taken into account Ps additional comments, but these have not persuaded me to 
change my mind. Im mindful that the quote was prepared during the sales meeting and 
wouldve been shown to Mrs R on the salespersons tablet or laptop. And she signed the 
quote during the meeting. 
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs R to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman