DRN-2354180
The complaint
Miss M and Mrs M complain that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG has turned down a personal
belongings claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M was abroad in August 2019. Unfortunately, she was attacked and had some items
and cash stolen. She said she made a report to the local Police that day, but due to a paper
shortage, it wasnt able to provide her with a written report. Miss M later made a claim for her
stolen things.
ERGO looked into Miss Ms claim. It asked her for a Police report which showed the theft
had been reported within 24 hours, which was a condition of the policy. Initially, Miss M sent
a report from the Police dated 30 December 2019. This listed the items Miss M said had
been stolen, but it didnt include the date the theft happened. Miss M subsequently provided
a further report in January 2020, which said the theft had been reported to the Police on 23
August 2019.
Based on the second report, ERGO turned down Miss Ms claim. Miss M had recorded the
date of the theft as 24 August 2019 on her claim form. So it said the theft appeared to have
been reported the day before it happened. It also noted that Miss M had said the attack had
happened at around 6pm and shed reported the loss to the Police around 8pm that evening.
But she was due to have been flying during that time. So ERGO felt Miss M had provided an
inconsistent version of events.
Miss M was unhappy with ERGOs decision. She said given whatd happened to her, shed
been hazy about the actual dates. But the attack and report to the Police had both happened
on 23 August 2019. Miss M and Mrs M asked us to look into the complaint.
Our investigator thought Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. She felt the second Police
report showed Miss M had reported the attack on 23 August 2019. So she thought shed
complied with the policy requirements. She also felt Miss M had given a plausible
explanation for the discrepancy between the theft dates on the claim form and Police report.
So she recommended that ERGO should pay Miss Ms claim and should also pay her £300
for the distress and inconvenience its handling of the claim had caused her.
ERGO disagreed. It said there were a number of anomalies and discrepancies with this
claim and it didnt feel the claim was valid in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I issued my provisional decision on 6 October 2020. In my provisional decision, I explained 
why I thought it was fair for ERGO to turn down Miss M and Mrs Ms claim. I said:
Its clear Miss M has been through a distressing time and Im sorry to hear about the theft
she suffered. I sympathise with her situation. But in making my decision, I need to think
about whether ERGO met its regulatory duty not to turn down claims unreasonably.
When Miss M and Mrs M made their claim, the burden of proof was on them to demonstrate
that they had a valid claim on the policy. So its their responsibility to provide enough
evidence to show their claim is valid.
Ive first considered the terms of Miss M and Mrs Ms policy. Section six sets out what is and
isnt covered under the Personal Effects section of the policy. One of the policy terms says:
What is not covered;
Losses not reported to the Police or appropriate authority within 24 hours of discovery and a
written report obtained.
So I think it was reasonable for ERGO to require Miss M to provide a report to show she had
notified her loss to the Police within a reasonable timeframe. Ive then thought about the
circumstances of the claim and also whether I think Miss M complied with the policy terms.
Miss M sent ERGO a claim form around 10 days after she said the theft occurred. Ive
looked closely at the information she included on the claim form, because this was the first
written notification of the incident she gave ERGO. Miss M told ERGO the theft happened on
24 August 2019 at around 18.00 hours. She also stated that shed reported it to the Police
on the same date at around 20.00 hours but couldnt get a written report due to paper
shortages. Although I appreciate Miss M told our investigator she got a crime reference
number at that point, she didnt include this on the claim form.
Having looked at the airline itinerary Miss M sent ERGO, it does appear that her return flight
to the UK wouldve been underway both when she said the theft happened and the when
she reported it to the Police. So I can understand why ERGO had some concerns about the
validity of the claim, given the discrepancy between what Miss M had said on the claim form
and what the flight itinerary showed.
A few months later, Miss M was able to obtain two Police reports from the station she said
she reported the loss to. The first listed the items thatd been stolen but didnt include a theft
date. It was simply stamped with the date the report had been produced. In late January
2020, Miss M was able to provide a second report which said the claim had been reported
on 23 August 2019  the day before Miss M was due to return home. And the day before
Miss M said the theft happened. But neither report explains what happened or what the
circumstances of the theft were.
Miss M says she became confused about the date of the attack and thats why she included
the wrong date on her claim form. She says the theft actually happened on 23 August 2019
 which appears to be supported by the second Police report. Ive thought about this. But
Miss M completed the claim form around 10 days after the attack happened. The second
Police report wasnt filled out until roughly five months later. I think its reasonable for ERGO
to place more weight on a claim form which was filled out very shortly after the event than a
post-dated Police report, which doesnt include much detail and which wasnt completed until
several months after the event. Thats because I think a policyholders recollections about
what happened are likely to be strongest the closer to the incident itself.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I do think there are some inconsistencies between the
information Miss M initially gave ERGO and the evidence shes subsequently provided. So, I
dont think that she and Mrs M have shown that they have a valid claim under the policy
terms or provided enough evidence to substantiate it. This means I currently think it was fair
for ERGO to turn down the claim. If Miss Ms able to provide any additional information to
substantiate her claim, its open to her to send this to me in response to my provisional
decision.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to look at.ERGO had nothing more to add.
Miss M and Mrs M didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, Miss M said:
She had complied with the policy terms, as the incident was reported to the Police on 
23 August 2019, the same day itd happened. Her recollections were intact and shed 
made an error when she wrote the incident date on the claim form;
She explained why itd taken 10 days to complete the claim form;
While she didnt include a crime reference number on her form, shed included 
everything shed been told to;
She explained that the delays in getting the Police reports was because her brother 
had had to travel to the Police station abroad and also because ERGO hadnt made 
a decision on her claim for around three months. The Police reports were date-
stamped on the days the Police provided the reports.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think it was fair for ERGO to turn down Miss M and Mrs Ms claim and 
Ill explain why.
Miss M says she made a simple error when she completed the claim form and wrongly 
recorded that the incident and report to the Police happened on 24 August 2019, rather than 
the actual incident date of 23 August 2019. Ive thought about this and I accept its possible 
that Miss M made an error. But I think it was fair for ERGO to rely on the first information that 
was presented to it when it assessed the claim. This was the claim form Miss M filled in 
which stated that the incident happened on 24 August 2019. It didnt receive a Police report 
which gave a specific and different incident date until after the claim had already been turned 
down. 
Ive considered what Miss Ms said about the time it took to get updated Police reports and I 
accept the reasons shes given. But I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome 
here. Miss M filled out the claim form a few days after she got home when her recollections 
were likely to have been strongest. The incident and Police report dates noted on the claim 
form she sent in at that time didnt tally up with the date given on the post-dated Police 
reports. So I think it was fair for ERGO to conclude there were inconsistencies in the 
evidence Miss M had provided.
As I explained in my provisional decision, its for a policyholder to show they have a valid 
claim on their policy. Im still not persuaded that Miss M and Mrs M have provided enough 
evidence to substantiate their claim. So while I sympathise with Miss M and Mrs Ms 
position, I think it was fair for ERGO to turn down their claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman