DRN-3233570
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as O has complained that Euler Hermes SA/NV unfairly turned down
a claim on its trade credit insurance policy.
Mr O, a director of O, has brought the complaint on Os behalf.
What happened
O said it was sold trade credit insurance and invoice financing as a package. The policy was 
put in place to cover goods dispatched or services provided after 1 October 2020. 
 
After shipping goods to a company and not receiving payment of £352,975, O claimed on its 
policy in November 2020. 
 
Euler Hermes initially said they wouldnt provide any settlement for the claim for 270 days, 
as that was the protracted default period for the country O had shipped to. O wasnt happy 
with this delay. 
 
However, in January 2021, Euler Hermes turned down the claim in full. O said that it 
believed it had shipped the goods to a company which Ill refer to as T. However, Euler 
Hermes said they had contacted T and confirmed that T hadnt made the order. Rather, 
someone pretending to be T must have made the order instead. They said losses flowing 
from such circumstances arent covered by the policy as the policy only covers insured 
buyers. Euler Hermes said these circumstances would also fall under the policy definition of 
a dispute and cover is specifically excluded for disputes. 
 
O didnt think it was fair for Euler Hermes to turn down the claim. It said Euler Hermes had 
approved T through a credit check, so Euler Hermes must have considered T an appropriate 
company for O to trade with. 
 
Euler Hermes said that, although it had approved T, this wasnt the company which had 
placed the order with O. Euler Hermes said it is Os responsibility to carry out due diligence 
and validation checks on the company it is selling to. 
 
Unhappy with Euler Hermes response, O brought its complaint to our service. 
 
Euler Hermes said they didnt provide the invoice financing and had referred O to a separate 
company. In addition to the points above, Euler Hermes said the policy provided cover for an 
insured debt, which needed to be owed by an insured buyer. Ts status as an insured 
buyer required the contracted payment terms to be under an irrevocable letter of credit. 
However, the contract for the goods in question set out open credit terms of 30 days from 
the date of invoice, which would mean that, even if T had bought the goods, this sale would 
not qualify as an insured debt. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 December 2021. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
O has made a number of detailed points however, Im going to focus my decision on what I
consider to be the central points to this complaint. In this decision, I am only considering the
claim relating to shipping goods to T. O has also complained about another claim being
declined, but this is being considered in a separate decision. O has also indicated that it
is unhappy that the policy was misrepresented at the point of sale, but this would need to be
raised as a further complaint.
Protracted default period
The proposal document and terms and conditions both make it clear that the protracted
default period for the country O was shipping to is 270 days. I understand O was keen to
receive payment sooner than this, but I dont think Euler Hermes acted unreasonably in
saying that they needed to wait until the end of the protracted default period before any claim
would be paid.
In a letter to O dated 2 December 2020, Euler Hermes asked O for further information about
its claim so it could carry out a full assessment before the default period ended. I think thats
fair and reasonable as it would enable Euler Hermes to make a payment as soon as
possible after the period.
Declined claim
When making a claim, the onus is on the insured to demonstrate that its suffered a loss that
the policy covered.
The terms and conditions of Os policy say the policy provides cover for an insured debt
which is owed by an insured buyer under a contract.
The policy defines an insured buyer as:
any of your customers trading in any of the countries specified in the Schedule
A contract is defined as a:
legally valid and enforceable agreement for goods sold and Despatched and/or
services Provided by you to an Insured Buyer
As the word customer isnt defined in the policy, its therefore necessary to use the words
ordinary, everyday meaning, which I think is someone who buys goods or services. Ive seen
an email from T which says that theyre not aware of the alleged transaction and advise O to
report the fraud to the relevant authorities.
As the company who took the goods from O was posing as a different company, apparently
without any intention of paying for them, I think its reasonable to find that they werent a
customer of O. As I dont think this company meets the definition of a customer, I think its far
for Euler Hermes to say the loss O has suffered isnt one that the policy covers.
Moreover, even if I accepted that the company posing as T (or T itself) was a customer, the
definition of an insured debt also says that the debt:
relates to a Contract that specifies terms of payment no more favourable to
the Insured Buyer than the maximum terms of payment specified in the Approved
Limit for that Insured Buyer, or the Schedule where no such ApprovedLimit exists.
The schedule states that the maximum terms of payment specified for the country where T is
based is an irrevocable letter of credit. However, the invoice specifies that payment should
be made within 30 days of the receipt of the bill of lading. As the payment terms offered are
more favourable to the maximum terms of payment specified in the approved limit for T, I
think its reasonable for Euler Hermes to say this isnt a loss covered by the policy.
O said that Euler Hermes waived the irrevocable letter of credit, but I havent seen anything
to persuade me of that.
Approved credit rating
I can see that Euler Hermes gave O an approved credit limit of £700,000 for T. While I
understand that O thought this meant it had vetted T, Euler Hermes had carried out a check
on the financial circumstances of T as a legitimate company, not of the company posing as
T. As such, I dont think Euler Hermes providing an approved credit limit for T, means they
are responsible for O shipping the goods to a company posing as T.
I understand this isnt the outcome O was hoping for, given the significant amounts involved.
However, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Euler
Hermes to pay Os claim.
Euler Hermes didnt respond to my provisional decision by the required date and O didnt 
accept it. O said Euler Hermes had approved T and therefore they should be responsible for 
any checks that take place.
  
O also said that T had received the goods but was attempting to avoid paying for them by 
claiming they hadnt received them. 
On 4 February 2022, I let O and Euler Hermes know that the further comments from O were 
unlikely to change the outcome I had reached in my provisional findings. I said that, even if T 
had purchased the goods rather than a separate fraudulent buyer, I thought the claim would 
still be declined as Euler Hermes had shown that the loss would be considered a dispute. 
That means they could therefore rely on the exclusion in the policy that excludes cover for 
disputes. 
O said that Euler Hermes were at fault for the loss as they had provided a credit limit for T 
without carrying out due diligence. It said that, for example, Euler Hermes should have 
asked to see the letter of credit before agreeing to a credit limit as this would have enabled 
them to check things such as the customers bank account details.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the information Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional 
decision.  
 
I understand O thinks that T (and not a fraudulent buyer) did receive the goods. However, 
from the information Ive seen I think it was reasonable for Euler Hermes to say that the 
goods were shipped to a company posing as T, rather than T, and therefore the claim isnt 
covered by the policy.  
 However, even if I accepted that the goods were sent to T, for the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision, I do not believe that T was an insured buyer for the purposes of this 
purchase. This is because the payment terms in this purchase were more favourable than 
those set out in the schedule. So, for this reason, it would be fair and reasonable for Euler 
Hermes to say the claim isnt covered. 
 
Moreover, the policy also excludes cover for disputes. Dispute is defined as: 
 
any unresolved, genuine and documented disagreement between you and the 
Insured Buyer relating to any obligations owed by either you or the Insured Buyer 
under the Contract that results in refusal by the Insured Buyer to pay you any 
debt. 
 
As T disputes trading with O, I think this would be considered a dispute and therefore 
excluded by the policy. So, even if T did receive the goods and could be considered as Os 
customer for this purchase, and even if it did qualify as an insured buyer, I think it would be 
fair and reasonable for Euler Hermes to say the claim isnt covered due to it being a dispute 
and therefore showing they have shown an exclusion applies. 
 
I recognise that O thinks Euler Hermes should have carried out greater due diligence to 
ensure that O was trading with a legitimate company rather than a fraudulent buyer. 
However, Euler Hermes was presented with the details of a legitimate company and it 
underwrote the risk on the basis of offering a credit limit for that company. I dont think I can 
hold Euler Hermes responsible if O then provided the goods to a different company. 
 
O has provided a link to Euler Hermes website which it thinks indicates that Euler Hermes 
also provided the invoice financing. Im not going to make a finding on whether Euler 
Hermes provided invoice financing in this decision. Thats because in this decision I can only 
consider Euler Hermes decision to turn down Os claim. Any complaint about the sale of the 
policy would need to be considered as a separate complaint. Also, any complaint O has 
about not receiving a payment from the invoice financing company would also need to be 
raised separately, although O should be aware that our service might not be able to consider 
that complaint as it may not be about a regulated activity.  
 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome O was hoping for considering the significant value of the 
claim but, having considered the matter very carefully, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, in my provisional decision and in my email of 4 February 
2022, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman