DRN-2562918
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold them two risky, inflexible savings 
plan which included unnecessary life cover  in 1998 and 1999.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ws representative said:
They were not prepared to take any risks when it came to their savings
They had no investment experience at the point of sale and were not prepared for the 
level of risk associated with the product recommended
They already had sufficient life cover in place and had no requirement for the 
additional cover within the policy
They had no requirement for a policy over such an inflexible term
The adviser failed to establish if they had sufficient emergency funds in place
Other more suitable options were not discussed
An investigator at this service did not feel the recommendation had been unsuitable given Mr 
and Mrs Ws circumstances and objectives (which she outlined in detail). In particular, she 
noted:
They maintained the original plan for the recommended 10-year period; and the top-
up plan for more than nine years; both delivered a positive return
Both plans were affordable given their significant incomes and surplus monthly 
money
The life insurance element cost was less than 1% and ensured any profits were tax-
free
Generally, these types of investments are low-risk and consumers are not tied in so 
they can surrender them at any time
Mr and Mrs W wanted a full financial review and their priority was to save regularly to 
provide a cash sum for retirement; this plan fulfilled their needs. They already held a 
joint savings account and an existing mortgage endowment policy, this suggests they 
were prepared to take some risk to increase their savings for retirement
Mr and Mrs W were in their late 20s at the time and its documented that they wanted 
to save for their retirement
Mr and Mrs Ws representative did not agree, and said:
They were still relatively young and were wholly reliant on the adviser for sound 
financial advice
It was already apparent that mortgage endowment policies were starting to suffer 
massive shortfalls. Despite this, the adviser felt it appropriate to ignore that their 
mortgage repayment was reliant on such a policy
These were unit-linked plans where the value can rise and fall on a daily basis. That 
together with the high management costs and the investment drag due to life cover 
costs made them a high-risk policy
While the plans could be surrendered at any time, an early surrender would cause 
loss of tax-efficient status
Ordinarily, you would expect to see a Maximum Investment Plan to have just the 
minimum life cover to make it a qualifying policy but on these policies the life cover is 
above the minimum with no explanation of why
Even though the cost of the life cover was less than 1% of Mr and Mrs Ws monthly 
contributions, this is an unnecessary drag on investment returns
A savings product such as a high-interest savings account - readily available on the 
high street in 1998, - offered no risk and included no unnecessary life cover!
There is a doubt about the accuracy of the alleged £1,500 monthly disposable 
income given the couple had only purchased their first home a year previously and 
there appears to be no consideration given to any renovation costs
It is also apparent that additional funding to mortgage repayment should have been a 
huge consideration
With the monthly disposable income still in mind, it is worth noting that the first policy 
was initially set up with an increasing basis which would have a severe impact on the 
alleged disposable income
This is especially significant when you factor in the monthly cost of the second policy 
of £115.95 (level cost)
There appears no real reason for having these policies over 10-year terms. 
Ordinarily, you would expect to see a goal in 10 years time i.e. childrens university, 
early retirement, but this is not the case with these. They appear to just have been 
sold for general savings
Again, this need could have been met in a far less risky way through high-interest 
accounts on the high street
The sales appear to have been made in such a way that they fit the product rather 
than the true need of the consumer
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons (I have only outlined a 
briefish summary of her arguments above).
There are many cases where I and this service have concluded that it was not appropriate to 
recommend a medium-term savings plan, with compulsory life cover, to someone in their 
20s  including for some of the reasons Mr and Mrs Ws representative has described. But in 
this instance I dont think the evidence does indicate that this was clearly an inappropriate 
recommendation.
Mr and Mrs W were in well-paid jobs and, according to the evidence available, easily able to 
set aside the sums in question in order to save for the medium term. The fact that they may 
not have had a specific time span or objective does not invalidate the recommendation.
Many people choose, and have chosen, to invest in low-risk savings products rather than 
keep all their money in bank deposit/savings accounts. I dont accept that the advisor in this 
case ought to have spelt out this alternative (which Mr and Mrs W would have been well 
aware of) or recommended it. I dont believe they evidence indicates that they werent in a 
position to take any risk with this modest portion of their available income. Nor do I think the 
advisor ought to have taken into account the fact that Mr and Mrs W had an endowment-
based mortgage.Overall, this was a tax-efficient product which offered a reasonable low-risk investment 
opportunity. It was for Mr and Mrs W to judge whether they wanted to take out such a plan, 
including the very modest cost of life cover.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman