DRN-3468269
The complaint
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of A  a limited company. Mr B is unhappy that Metro 
Bank Plc (Metro Bank) hasnt reimbursed all of the money he transferred to a scammer.
What happened
Mr B was contacted by a scammer pretending to be from his internet provider. They told Mr 
B his IP address was being hacked and directed him to view information online that 
evidenced the attempts the hacker had made to access his network. They said any apps or 
websites he used online were at risk including his bank account and he needed to move his 
money to a safe account.
The scammer instructed him to download applications to his phone, one of which allowed 
the scammer to mirror his phone screen and see his information. The scammer instructed 
him to start moving money from his business bank account to safe accounts that had been 
set up with another bank. They told him he needed to move the money to several different 
accounts under code names. Within 30 minutes Mr B made the following transfers, each to 
different beneficiaries:
28 November 2020 11.28 am £2,500
28 November 2020 11.33 am £2,500
28 November 2020 11.47 am £1,242.09 (unsuccessful)
28 November 2020 11.52 am £2,500
28 November 2020 11.58 am £2,500
28 November 2020 12.00 pm £1,100.09 
Total £11,100.09
Metro Bank hasnt explained why the third payment was unsuccessful, but from what Ive 
seen it didnt contact Mr B about this or prevent him from making further payments from the 
account.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year upholding the complaint in part. I felt the 50% 
Metro Bank had already refunded to Mr B was reasonable, but I thought it needed to pay 
additional interest on this amount.
Mr B responded and said he felt Metro Bank ought to have done more to stop the payments 
being made. He felt the other high value transactions on his accounts werent normal activity 
on his account, they were one off payments made for specific purchases. And whilst he 
thought he maybe shouldve been more vigilant he explained how the panic he felt when he 
made the payments and the fact that he was caught off guard effected his judgment.
Metro Bank responded to the decision and confirmed it had no further comments for me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered both parties responses to my provisional decision. Having done so, my 
decision remains the same. For completeness, I have set my provisional decision out below 
and addressed the parties arguments within it to form my final decision.
Im required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good 
industry practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
However, where the consumer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the consumer 
even though they authorised the payment. 
When thinking about what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive considered whether Metro 
Bank should have reimbursed A in line with the provisions of the CRM Code it has agreed to 
adhere to and whether it ought to have done more to protect A from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr B was tricked into making the payment. He thought he was 
moving money to protect it. But this isnt enough, in and of itself, for A to receive a refund of 
the money under the CRM Code. The Code places a level of care on Mr B too. 
THE CRM CODE
Metro Bank has signed up to, and agreed to adhere to, the provisions of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (the CRM Code) which requires firms to 
reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams 
like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
It is for Metro Bank to establish that a customer failed to meet a requisite level of care under 
one or more of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code.Those exceptions are:
The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made. 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for genuine 
goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted was 
legitimate 
There are further exceptions within the CRM Code, but they do not apply in this case.
Metro Bank has accepted it didnt provide Mr B with any warnings in this case. And, I think 
from the second payment Mr B made to scammers it was obliged to do this. I say this because when he made the second payment of the same amount within a short space of 
time Metro Bank ought to have recognised unusual activity that mightve been indicative of a 
scam. As it failed to meet its requisite level of care under the CRM code, its reimbursed A 
for 50% of its loss.
Its now for me to decide whether I think Mr B had a reasonable basis for believing what he 
was told by the scammers when he made the payments he did and therefore met his 
requisite level of care.
Did Mr B have a reasonable basis for belief?
Having considered what Mr B has told us about his interaction with the scammers very 
carefully, overall, Im not persuaded he did have a reasonable basis for believing what he 
was told. I understand that the nature of scams like this one are that scammers skilfully 
apply pressure to their victims and create a sense of urgency. But, I also think there were 
several points where Mr B reasonably ought to have questioned what he was being told. I 
say this because:
The scammers told Mr B they were calling from his internet provider and they could 
see his bank accounts were at risk. But its not clear how an internet provider would 
have access to As bank accounts and banking security information. And its not clear 
why he didnt question why he would be hearing his bank account was at risk from 
someone who wasnt calling from his bank.
The scammers asked Mr B to move As money to safe accounts it had set up under 
code names. But its not clear why he believed his internet provider had the capability 
of setting up safe accounts given it isnt a bank and doesnt offer any banking 
facilities.
Mr B had said the scammer knew a specific number from his router. When 
questioned further by our service hes said they knew the product number on his 
router rather than one of the numbers unique to him. Its not clear if he checked this 
during his call with the scammer. It doesnt appear the scammer had any other 
personal information about him that offered reassurance they were who they said 
they were and it doesnt appear Mr B asked for any reassurances or tried to check. 
And although I understand they said they were calling from his internet provider and 
they knew who this was, it doesnt seem it would be difficult for someone to guess Mr 
B mightve been a customer of one of the UKs largest providers. 
The evidence the scammers used to convince Mr B As accounts were at risk 
appears to have been directing him to external websites. They also told him to 
download software that allowed them to view and access his computer, seemingly 
without any plausible explanation as to why he needed to do this. Although I do 
understand he was worried and felt under pressure, I think he reasonably ought to 
have attempted to verify what he was being told before he started to make the 
payments he did.
I do understand that scammers use tactics to panic and confuse their victims. And although I 
have taken this into account here, I still think Mr B reasonably ought to have questioned 
some of what he was being told before proceeding to make the payments he did. 
Overall I dont think Mr B did have a reasonable basis for believing what he was told by the 
scammers. 
Could Metro Bank have done anything to have prevented the scam?Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Metro Bank should 
fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring its accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
And, in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Ive thought about the transactions in this case and whether I think they ought to have 
prompted further intervention from Metro Bank.
This account wasnt Mr Bs personal account, it was one he used for business purposes. In 
the six months leading up to his payments to the scammer I can see he made a payment of 
£5,000 in June 2020 and a payment of £14,000 in October 2020. The payments Mr B made 
to scammers were much lower than these amounts so wouldnt reasonably have seemed 
significantly unusual as I think they fit within the general use of As account. And whilst Mr B 
has pointed out the specifics of what these payments are for, they were still payments he 
legitimately made from As account and created a pattern of behaviour.
That said, Mr B transferred over £11,000 out of As account to five new payees within half an 
hour. And whilst I accept that when running a business account it is likely the case new 
payees will be added, I think this many transactions of identical amounts to this many 
payees in such a short space of time ought to have raised concerns with Metro Bank as I 
think its indicative of a scam. Particularly as these transactions totalled almost the entire 
account balance.
By the time Mr B made the third payment to scammers I think Metro Bank reasonably ought 
to have stopped the payment and intervened by asking Mr B for further verification. I say this 
because it was the third payment of £2,500 within around 20 minutes with one failed 
transaction of over £1,000 in the middle. 
I think Metro Bank reasonably ought to have asked Mr B probing questions about the 
payment including what it was for an who it was to before it was sent. I havent seen any 
reason Mr B wouldnt have been honest about what he was doing  moving the money to a 
safe account. Afterall, he didnt suspect anyone at the bank as hed been told by the 
scammers a hacker was the problem. So I think the scam wouldve been uncovered straight 
away by Metro Bank staff, who Id reasonably expect to be trained to recognise and be on 
the look out for common scams like this one.Had Metro Bank intervened Mr B wouldnt likely have made the last three payments to the 
scammers. So I think it needs to pay additional interest on these three payments as outlined 
below.
Putting things right
As Metro Bank has already reimbursed A for 50% of its loss I dont think it needs to 
reimburse A for anything more.
However, as I think it ought to have intervened when the third payment was made 
and likely would have been able to prevent the payments being made from this point, 
it should pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on this amount from the date 
of payments (28 November 2020) to the date of settlement.
Based on the account statements available it seems that the money was paid to scammers 
from As business account and likely wouldve remained there for general use had the 
money not left the account which is why 8% is the appropriate rate of interest in this case.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. Metro Bank Plc needs to pay A the redress outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman