DRN-4252150
The complaint
Mr J complains about QIC Europe Ltds (QIC) decision not to consider his claim further 
under his home insurance policy. He also complains about their delay when initially handling 
the claim and about them not preventing his laptop from being disposed of by their agent.  
What happened
Mr J says, while removing a television from a bedroom, he accidentally dropped it causing 
damage to his laptop, a bed frame and the carpet and underlay. So, Mr J claimed against his 
policy. QIC explained, as part of their validations process, a claim investigator would need to 
attend Mr Js home wearing a body camera. Mr J wasnt happy about this and said he would 
allow them to take photographs but not to carry out any recording. QIC explained they 
require certain enquiries to be made as part of their validations process in respect of the 
claim. They said theyve been unable to proceed with those enquiries because of Mr Js 
refusal to allow them to carry out those enquiries. 
Mr J complained about QICs handling of his claim. He said they were acting unfairly in 
insisting on the use of a body camera. He also said it took QIC six weeks to formally confirm 
his claim and he had to prompt them several times, they hadnt acted with integrity, and they 
disposed of his laptop without permission. 
QIC responded and explained they hadnt delayed in the early stages of the claim, and they 
were waiting for further information from Mr J. They confirmed they acted swiftly to progress 
the claim and it wasnt delayed for six weeks due to any inaction on their part. In relation to 
Mr Js complaint about their integrity, they acknowledged that the job title of the author of an 
email sent to Mr J implied there was a fraud investigation ongoing. QIC apologised and 
explained the author is also a claim validations team leader and their correspondence 
shouldve been signed under this title as it related to the general claim validation process. 
In relation to Mr Js concern about the use of body cameras, they said its company 
procedure for agents to wear body cameras, which is for Mr Js protection as well as the 
agent. They said it ensures any possible allegations levied against them or potential for 
miscommunication can be either substantiated or denied. They said if Mr J doesnt co-
operate and allow the agent to visit whilst using a body camera, then QIC are unable to 
progress the claim and hes also in direct breach of the terms and conditions of his policy. 
QIC said, at present, theyre refusing to pay the claim under the Claims Procedures and 
Conditions section, but this isnt the same as saying theyre declining the claim. 
In relation to Mr Js laptop and adapter, they said this was sent for review and they noted the 
hard drive had been removed by Mr J prior to the laptop being sent. They said, after the 
laptop was reviewed, it was established this was beyond repair, so they disposed of it. They 
said the principle of indemnity is a rule of insurance which says the insurer will only pay for 
the actual loss suffered by the insured. They said, due to the laptop not being in working 
order, there was no actual loss suffered by Mr J.     
Our investigator looked into things for Mr J. She thought QIC had acted unfairly in not 
progressing the claim and recommended they should investigate Mr Js claim further without 
the need for body cameras, and also pay £600 compensation. She also recommended they 
settle Mr Js claim for his laptop. QIC disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation is a fair way to resolve matters. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and the main 
areas of dispute. 
Claim validation and progress 
One area of dispute here relates to QICs decision not to progress Mr Js claim on the basis 
they feel he isnt co-operating with their request for their claim investigator to wear a body 
camera when attending Mr Js home. So Ive considered all the information to determine 
whether QIC have acted fairly here. 
I can see Mr J queries why QIC havent sent him a formal letter declining his claim. I think its 
important to clarify here, it doesnt appear as though QIC have formally declined Mr Js 
claim. Rather, the parties appear to have reached an impasse. QIC say they arent in a 
position to inform Mr J of a claim decision. They say their claim investigator needs to visit   
Mr Js home first to validate his claim, while wearing a body camera. They say, if Mr J 
doesnt co-operate and allow their claim investigator to visit his home while wearing a body 
camera, then theyre unable to progress the claim and Mr J is also in direct breach of his 
policy terms and conditions. 
The section of the policy QIC are referring to is headed Claims procedures and conditions 
and says, You must co-operate with usin investigating and assessing any claim or 
circumstances which may lead to a claim  It goes further to say, If you fail to meet one or 
more of these conditions, we will refuse to pay the claim or pay only part of the claim.  
While the policy terms and conditions do require Mr J to co-operate with QICs investigation 
and assessment of his claim, Ive looked to see whether QIC have acted fairly in deciding 
they cant progress Mr Js claim unless he allows their claim investigator to attend wearing a 
body camera. QIC say the use of body cameras is company procedure, and not only for the 
protection of their customers, but also for the protection of their agents, including any 
possible allegations levied against them or potential for miscommunication. They refer to an 
extract from their privacy policy which relates to Body worn cameras. This says, as part of 
their protocols, all QICs agents staff are provided with body worn cameras, the purpose of 
which is to provide security to their policyholders and employees. 
It also says the footage will be used to understand the validity/content of insurance claims 
and may also be used as evidence should QIC have suspicions of fraudulent activity. It says 
all footage is encrypted and can only be accessed by a small number of senior staff within 
the business. It also says all recordings will be retained in line with their privacy policy. 
I can see Mr J has serious concerns about the use of body cameras in his home. He says 
any recording will breach his human rights to privacy and also compromise his personal 
security and the security of his home. QIC say, while they appreciate the scepticism of some customers to the subject of recording, theyre confident in their ability to maintain the integrity 
of their own obligations to relevant General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the 
protection of customers data. 
While I acknowledge QICs company procedure allows their agents to use body cameras, 
and I also accept there might well be types of claims where the use of body cameras might 
well be helpful, I dont think its reasonable, or necessary, in the circumstances of this case. I 
say this because the incident location is restricted to one room  in this case a bedroom. 
Theres damage reported to the bed frame and carpet/underlay in this bedroom. Given the 
particular facts in this case, QIC havent provided any reasonable or persuasive arguments 
for why an agent attending and taking photographs of the bedroom and damaged items 
wont be sufficient here  and I can see Mr J has proposed this. I accept its usual procedure 
for an insurer to carry out enquiries in order to validate a claim  and thats what QIC are 
looking to do here. But, given the claim circumstances, and the fact that QIC have confirmed 
to Mr J theyre making no allegations of fraud and theyre only looking to validate information 
around the claim, Im not persuaded its reasonable in the circumstances for QIC to refuse to 
progress the claim based on Mr Js refusal to allow their agent to visit with a body camera.      
So, taking this all into account I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for QIC to 
investigate and consider the claim further, but without the use of body cameras. I recognise 
QIC have protocols, but Ive decided this part of the complaint based on what I think is fair in 
the circumstances. The key reasons why Im persuaded this is a fair approach here is 
because the incident location is limited to one room, and there are reasonable alternative 
options available to QIC to get the information they require without the need for body 
cameras. I can see Mr J remains concerned about data security. Its widely publicised there 
have been occasions where large companies have had their IT systems compromised and I 
can see Mr J raises this point. I dont believe that, in itself, is a reasonable objection to have 
as there will undoubtedly be claims where the use of body cameras will be necessary. But in 
this case, where I dont believe its reasonable, proportionate or necessary in order for QIC 
to get the information they need, I can understand why Mr J has objected to this. 
I understand QIC say, while the use of body cameras is there to help validate and speed up 
claims, the predominate purpose is to ensure the safety and security of their staff and 
policyholders, minimising the threat for accusations and threatening behaviour. I do 
acknowledge this, and I wish to assure QIC that Ive taken this point into consideration. 
While I acknowledge there will be circumstances where due to a single issue or a 
combination of factors it will be necessary for an insurer to use body cameras, given the 
facts in this case, I havent seen any information which persuades me its reasonable here.  
I can see the claim hasnt progressed for over a year due to the impasse. And given that I 
think QIC have acted unfairly in not progressing the claim due to their insistence in using 
body cameras, I think QIC should pay compensation to Mr J for the upset and frustration 
caused to him. Its clear from communication between Mr J and QIC that Mr J is becoming 
increasingly frustrated at the fact that his claim isnt progressing due to the dispute  and I 
think this was exacerbated when, following proposals put forward by Mr J in order to reach a 
compromise, QIC maintained their stance about the use of body cameras. 
The whole process has clearly been very upsetting and frustrating for Mr J as the claim has 
taken significantly longer than I believe it should have  and I think its important to recognise 
that Mr J still doesnt have a claim decision from QIC. So, taking into account the impact on 
Mr J, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for QIC to pay £600 compensation.     
Mr J says hes concerned about QICs delays in the early stages of his claim  he says it 
took QIC six weeks to initially respond and he had to prompt them. I can see Mr J reports the 
incident to QIC and they contact Mr J the same day through their online portal to request 
evidence to help progress the claim. They say theyve added details of the task they need  Mr J to complete to the dashboard. Mr J then explains he also wants to claim for damage to 
his bed frame and QIC confirm a few days later this has been added and they ask for an 
image of the entire bedroom. A few weeks later, Mr J contacts QIC and asks for an update 
and QIC refer to their previous message asking for an image of the entire bedroom. They 
say once received theyll confirm the next steps. Mr J contacts QIC via webchat and says he 
uploaded an image as requested and says he hasnt heard anything since. QIC then say 
they didnt receive the image Mr J uploaded. This is then received and QIC instruct an agent 
to assess the damaged items. From this point, I can see theres progress until Mr J and QIC 
reach an impasse in relation to the body camera issue. From the information Ive seen, I 
cant say there was an initial six-week delay by QIC. The information shows QIC were 
waiting for an image of Mr Js bedroom  and once this was received, the claim was 
progressed.    
QICs agents integrity
I can see Mr J is concerned about an email received from an agent of QIC, in particular, it 
being signed off by the author with the job title Counter Fraud Team Leader. The letter 
which was attached to the email is signed off by the same individual but this time their job 
title is Team Leader. Mr J raises a concern about this, and I can see, in the email response 
which follows, the author has now signed off their email with the job title Team Leader. In 
this email QICs agent confirms they arent making any allegations against Mr J and most 
certainly not an allegation of fraud. Mr J points out the author has changed their job title and 
says he believes theyve been deceitful about their identity and role in the claim and werent 
being truthful about their intentions.  
QIC apologise and explain the author is also a claim validations team leader and the letter 
shouldve been signed under this title as it relates to the general claim validation process. 
They explain they carry out a validation process on all claims and the email Mr J received 
was in regard to that validation process. I do acknowledge why Mr J became concerned 
when receiving communications from an agent of QIC with the term fraud in their job title  
particularly as Mr J was being reassured there was no fraud investigation into his claim. But, 
based on the information Ive seen, and QICs explanation, I think this was an oversight on 
the part of QICs agent and Ive seen no evidence QIC or their agent were attempting to 
mislead or deceive Mr J. I can see QIC have apologised and I think thats fair in the 
circumstances.  
Laptop and adapter 
I can see Mr J is concerned his laptop and adapter havent been returned to him. QIC say 
these items were sent for review and they noted the hard drive had been removed by Mr J 
prior to the laptop being sent. They say, after the laptop was reviewed, it was established 
this was beyond repair, so they disposed of it. They say the principle of indemnity is a rule of 
insurance which says the insurer will only pay for the actual loss suffered by the insured. 
They say, due to the laptop not being in working order, there is no actual loss suffered by   
Mr J.
Ive reviewed the report prepared by the company instructed by QIC to review Mr Js laptop. 
This says the laptop has sustained impact damage to the motherboard and no longer shows 
an image on the display. It goes further to say, Repairs will not be possible and we 
recommend that this item be cash settled. The report also says, We only hold BER items 
for up to 30 days from our report date after this period they are destroyed or prepared for 
salvage purposes. Please contact us immediately if the claim is under investigation, 
withdrawn or repudiated. It appears QIC didnt contact this company within 30 days to 
request the return of the laptop or to ask for it not to be destroyed.      Mr J has provided an extract from QICs Frequently Asked Questions relating to the claim 
process. Under a question asking whether a damaged item will be returned after it has been 
inspected, it says, Under the terms of your insurance policy, once we have settled your 
claim, ownership of any items inspected are transferred to your insurance company and as 
such we are unable to return them to you. In this case, the claim hasnt been settled but 
QICs agent has disposed of Mr Js laptop. And its clear QIC were made aware of their 
agents retention period as this was set out in their report. Despite this, and being aware the 
claim had reached an impasse, I cant see QIC took any steps to prevent their agent from 
disposing of Mr Js laptop. 
I note QIC say, as theyve been unable to validate the claim due to access issues, they dont 
agree to settle the laptop until a visit has taken place. They also point out that Mr J removed 
the hard drive prior to sending the laptop to QICs agent and they say the laptop wouldnt 
work even if Mr J put the hard drive back in. I acknowledge this, but the fact is the laptop 
was in QICs agents possession as part of the claim process. So, it was QICs responsibility 
to ensure the laptop was returned to Mr J if they couldnt validate the claim at that time. I 
acknowledge QICs point that the laptop wouldnt have worked in any event, but I cant see 
their agents report supports this. As mentioned above, the report confirms the laptop isnt 
repairable and they recommend a cash settlement. In any event, the issue here is that QIC 
didnt take steps to secure Mr Js laptop, and it was then disposed of by their agent. So, I 
think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for QIC to settle Mr Js claim for his laptop 
in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that QIC have acted unfairly in deciding they cant take Mr Js claim 
forward on the basis he isnt co-operating with the investigation. So, QIC should now 
investigate and consider Mr Js claim further without the need for body cameras, in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It is of course open to them to make any 
other further enquiries they feel are necessary, but I dont think its reasonable for them to 
use the reasons they have to justify their refusal to consider the claim further. QIC should 
also pay Mr J £600 compensation for the upset and frustration caused. QIC should also 
settle Mr Js claim for his laptop in line with the policy terms and conditions.    
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. QIC Europe Ltd must take the steps in 
accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2024.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman