DRN-3284264
The complaint
Ms H has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided her with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
TFS Loans provided Ms H with a loan of £4000 in March 2015. This loan had a 36-month 
term with a monthly repayment amount of £193.61. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £6969.96 was due to be repaid.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2021. Both parties have 
received a copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from 
the decision below. I said;
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate?
Miss H declared her income to be £1000 a month from her employment and £550 from 
working tax credits. TFS Loans also asked Miss H about her expenses and used a credit 
search to check for her credit commitments. It says after it did this, it worked out that Miss 
Hs disposable income was £334.93 after it factored in the loan repayment. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said and on the surface of it, it had assessed 
Miss H to have a reasonable proportion of her monthly wages left over as disposable 
income. But like our investigator, this assessment for me didnt correlate with what TFS 
Loans more likely would have seen in the credit search that it carried out. Miss H had five 
historic defaults registered all with outstanding balances. In addition, Miss H also had two 
accounts registered in her name that she was in arrears on (a utility and a 
telecommunications account). So, the findings from the credit search and also Miss Hs 
declaration didnt add up with the assessment that it had made and the disposable income 
that it had worked out Miss H had. I think there are enough discrepancies here for TFS 
Loans to want to find out more about the true extent of Miss Hs finances.
When I think about what I have just concluded and also the amount Miss H was borrowing, 
the total cost and length of the loan (3 years), I think TFS Loans should have carried out a 
complete review of her finances to see whether the loan repayments were sustainable over 
the life of the loan, this would include verifying her expenditure in more detail.  
As I cant see that this TFS Loans did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Miss H with her loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS Loans that Miss H would 
have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Miss H would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Miss H has provided bank statements to our service from a short period of time leading up to 
when the loan was granted, and Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having 
done so, its clear Miss H was gambling regularly, leading up to the date when she applied 
for the loan. She was also consistently using her overdraft and at times spent over her limit. 
There were unauthorised usage fees and charges listed in the days before she applied for 
this loan. 
Bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown TFS Loans that Miss H would not have been able to repay this 
loan in a sustainable manner as the information she has provided shows she was having 
problems managing her finances. In particular her gambling transactions were such that she 
was paying out more than she was earning. On balance, I think it would have become 
apparent to TFS that the loan repayments wouldnt have been sustainable over the life time 
of the loan. So, Im currently minded to say that its failure to carry out proportionate checks 
resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Miss H.
So, it follows that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. Ms H responded and said she agrees with the provisional 
decision. TFS Loans did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has not made any new points for me to respond to and TFS Loans has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Ms Hs 
complaint.  
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Ms Hs complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms H made, direct to TFS Loans and any third-parties, should be deducted 
from the new starting balance  the £4000 originally lent. 
If there is a balance still to be repaid, then TFS loans will need to exercise 
forbearance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with Ms H.
If Miss H has already repaid more than £4000.00 then TFS Loans should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Ms H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms H to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Hs complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put 
things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman