DRN-4298879
The complaint
Miss P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection 
with a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a hatchback car, first registered in 2007.
For the year from mid- February 2022, Miss P had the car insured on a comprehensive 
policy with Aviva. Any claim for damage (other than to a windscreen) was subject to an 
excess of £250.00.
Unfortunately, on about 11 September 2022, a third party damaged Miss Ps car. Miss P 
contacted Aviva. 
In mid-September 2022, Aviva arranged for its roadside assistance company to collect her 
damaged car. At about the same time, Miss P told Aviva she had changed her home 
address.
Aviva said Miss Ps car was a total loss. She wanted to keep the damaged car.
In late September 2022, Miss Ps car was taken to Avivas salvage company. 
On about 10 October 2022, Miss P got her car back from the salvage company.
Miss P complained to Aviva that it was responsible for returning the damaged car to her with 
a flat battery, no fuel and  in addition to the accident damage - with further damage. She 
told Aviva that she wanted to complain about its service in general.
On about 13 October 2022, Aviva offered £100.00 as a contribution to the costs of a 
breakdown call-out for the battery. Aviva wrote a short form of final response dated 13 
October 2022, (telling Miss P of her right to bring her complaint to us within six months). But 
Aviva used Miss Ps old address.
Aviva paid Miss P its pre-accident valuation of the car (£475.00) less a salvage fee 
(£142.50).
The third party accepted liability. 
Several months passed.
In late April 2023, Miss P brought her complaint to us.
Aviva told us that Miss P had brought her complaint to us more than six months after the 
final response dated 13 October 2022. But Aviva accepted that it had sent that response to 
Miss Ps old address. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
claim was handled in line with the policy terms, and the offer was fair and consistent with the 
recommendations we make at this service.
Miss P disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
When in the care of Aviva, her car was damaged with scratches.
£100.00 isnt enough for what Aviva put her through. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules is that  before we can investigate a complaint  the 
consumer must first have made that complaint to the regulated firm and waited for up to 
eight weeks for a final response.
In my view, the accident and the need to make a claim were bound to cause Miss P some 
upset and inconvenience. That was particularly the case as the car was a constructive total 
loss and Miss P wanted to keep it.
When she brought her complaint to us in late April 2023, Miss P added some points of  
complaint about aspects of Avivas service up to about 21 October 2022. But  in line with 
the rules  this final decision will deal only with the points of complaint that Miss P had 
already made to Aviva.
Subject to that constraint, Ive reviewed Miss Ps complaint form and Avivas file notes. I 
accept that there were times when Miss P felt she wasnt receiving a good service. However, 
I find that Aviva dealt with the claim in a reasonable timescale in September and October 
2022. I dont find that it fell below a reasonable standard of service.
I accept that Aviva was responsible for returning the car to Miss P with a flat battery. Whilst  
Aviva didnt accept that it was at fault, it paid Miss P £100.00 towards the cost of assistance 
at her home. And Miss P hasnt shown us details of her costs. So I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to direct Aviva to pay any more for this.
I accept that Aviva was responsible for returning the car to Miss P with very little fuel. 
However, the salvage agents told Aviva that they remove fuel as a fire precaution  and had 
offered to pay £10.00 to replace it.
In my view, Miss P has failed to provide enough photographic or other evidence to show that 
Aviva or its agents caused scratches or other damage to her car after the accident.
Overall, Im satisfied with Avivas response to the complaint. I dont find it fair and reasonable 
to direct Aviva to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman