DRN-3134870
The complaint
Mrs R complains Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly refused her landlord property insurance 
claim.
What happened
In October 2020 Mrs R made a claim on her landlord insurance policy. There had been 
water damage to one of her propertys bathroom floor, kitchen ceiling and units and its 
lounge ceiling, floor and decoration. 
Ageas appointed loss adjusters to assess the damage. It November 2020 it declined the 
claim. It said the damage hadnt been caused by an insured peril, for example an escape of 
water. It didnt find evidence of a leak significant enough to have caused the damage.  It said 
the damage was caused by tenants overflowing the bath and sink  and failed sealant. It 
said those arent causes of damage covered by the policy. 
Soon after Mrs Rs loss assessor told Ageas it had found a leak above the kitchen ceiling. In 
December 2020 Ageas accepted that as a cause of damage to the kitchen and lounge.  It 
offered about £7,000 to repair that damage only. Ageas didnt think the leak had caused the 
remaining damage. The loss assessor then showed Ageas a leak from a pipe in the 
bathroom. But it didnt accept that as a likely cause of the bathroom damage.
In February 2021 Ageas appointed an engineer to further assess the cause of the damage. It 
was concerned the two leaks, discovered by the loss adjuster, may have been fabricated. In 
his report the engineer said incorrect use of a shower screen was the most likely cause of 
damage. He felt the most likely explanation, for the two leaks highlighted by Mrs Rs loss 
assessor, was human intervention. So Ageas refused to pay the claim. Its since confirmed 
its offer to pay for the kitchen and lounge damage has been withdrawn. 
In April 2021 Mrs R responded to Ageas engineers assessment. She didnt accept misuse 
of the shower curtain as being the cause of the damage. She said she had tested the 
shower curtain, finding no escape of water. She contested the claim that human intervention 
was responsible for the leaks discovered by her loss adjuster. She explained that they hadnt 
been noticed by others previously as they were only apparent when the propertys water 
system was in use  and it hadnt been when Ageas engineer had visited the property. She 
said a leak from the area above the boiler was the cause of the damage. Video evidence of 
a build up of water on the boiler was provided in support.
Ageas engineer considered Mrs Rs comments and video. He didnt accept a leak above the 
boiler could have caused the damaged claimed for. He felt it possible there could be a leak 
from the toilet system that would account for the water build up on the boiler. So he visited to 
the property to test the toilet for leaks. He accepted there may be a small leak from the toilet 
but felt that wouldnt be consistent with the damage. He felt any leak from the toilet would 
need to generate a far greater amount of water to have been the cause.
Mrs R was unsatisfied with Ageas responses to her complaints, so she came to this service. 
It didnt agree to pay the claim or accept it had caused any unnecessary delay. She wants 
Ageas to cover the cost of repairing the damage and loss of rent. 
In August 2021 our investigator provided his assessment of the complaint. He didnt feel 
Ageas had acted unfairly by not covering the damage. He didnt recommend it cover any 
loss of rent. But he did suggest Ageas pay Mrs R £100 compensation to recognise distress 
and inconvenience caused by unnecessary delays. Ageas agreed to that. But Mrs R didnt 
accept the assessment. So the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In November 2021 Mrs R provided a report from her plumber. He had discovered a hairline 
crack in her toilet cistern. In his opinion water escaping from it could have collected in the 
ceiling void. He said over time it could have caused the damage claimed for. Ageas 
considered the report, but it didnt accept the toilet leak would have been enough to cause 
the damage. It still feels incorrect use of the shower screen was the most likely cause. So it 
hasnt changed its position on the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a standard requirement, with insurance claims, for the policyholder to show the loss 
claimed for was caused by one of their policys insured perils. For this claim the relevant 
perils are:
Escape of water from domestic fixed water systems, pipe or appliance... 
and 
 Accidental Damage. 
Accidental is defined by the policy as A sudden, unexpected, unusual, specific violent, 
external event which is not due to negligence, misuse, mechanical or electoral fault or 
reckless activity, and occurs at a single identifiable time and place and independent of all 
other causes or events.   
I accept this will be frustrating for Mrs R but, based what Ive seen, Im not persuaded the 
most likely cause of the damage was one of those insured perils. 
Theres been a great deal of evidence provided for this complaint. Ive provided a brief 
summary of the main reports and arguments above. As this is an informal service, Im not 
going to outline them in detail here. But Id like to reassure Mrs R and Ageas that Ive 
considered everything provided. 
I accept its possible a leak from the toilet cistern did cause the damage claimed for. Ive 
considered Mrs Rs and her plumbers comments. He feels water could have escaped, run 
down a pipe in to the ceiling void and over time caused the damage. But overall, Im more 
persuaded by Ageas position that the leak from the toilet wouldnt have been sufficient to 
cause the damage claimed for. 
Ageas engineer says the most likely explanation for the damage would be from misuse of 
the shower screen, ie it being left open during use of the shower. His feels this would cause 
extensive volumes of water to escape and spread over the bathroom floor. He says the 
shape of the damage to kitchen ceiling is consistent with that. He points to watermarking on 
the floor beneath the bath and a lack of dust in some areas. He feels this is consistent with water having escaped from the bath, through overfilling or incorrect shower screen use, onto 
the tiles and under the bath. 
This has been a difficult complaint to decide. There are conflicting and persuasive 
arguments. But having considered everything, Im more persuaded by Ageas engineer. I 
feel the misuse of the shower screen is the most likely explanation. Unfortunately for Mrs R I 
dont consider water escaping in that way to meet the requirements of the escape of water 
peril set out above. I might have considered that cause to be accidental. However, the 
definition of accidental, given above, doesnt include events due to misuse. So I cant say 
Ageas decision to decline Mrs Rs claim for the damage is unfair or unreasonable.    
Mrs Rs policy does cover her for loss of rent when the property is uninhabitable. But the 
terms require it to be in that condition as a result of damage insured by the policy. As I dont 
feel the damage was most likely caused by one of the policys insured perils, it follows I cant 
say Ageas refusal to pay her loss of rent is unfair. 
Ageas accepted the investigators recommendation it pay Mrs R £100 compensation to 
recognise the impact of delay it caused during the claim. It may have been responsible for 
some unnecessary delay. But I havent seen anything Ageas was responsible for thats likely 
to have caused Mrs R any significant distress or inconvenience. So I feel £100 is a fair 
amount for it to pay to her in recognition of the impact of any delay.      
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Ageas Insurance Limited needs to pay Mrs R £100 
compensation. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 January 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman