DRN-3216967
The complaint
Mr L complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) wrongly 
declined a claim he brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ls case on 24 November 2021, in which I said I was 
minded to uphold his complaint. Both parties to the complaint have received a copy of this 
provisional decision so I will not go into great detail about the background, but in brief 
summary:
Mr L used his Amex credit card to pay £250, in advance, for a discounted annual 
membership at a private club in London, C1.
Before Mr L could take up his membership, C1 closed due to a rent dispute with its 
landlord, and the company behind it subsequently dissolved. He was informed with 
one days notice that his membership would be transferred to another club, C2, 
which was nearby. C2 was a different club and Mr L didnt want to transfer his 
membership there. He requested a full refund instead.
Mr L didnt receive a refund and was told to take the matter up with his bank. So he 
approached Amex with a view to making a section 75 claim. Amex declined the claim 
as it said a third party payment processor had been used to make the payment. It 
rejected Mr Ls complaint about its decision. Unhappy with this response, Mr L then 
brought the matter to this service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She noted that Amex couldnt 
prove a third party payment processor had been used, but that Mr Ls claim wouldnt 
have succeeded anyway because C1s terms and conditions allowed it to transfer Mr 
Ls membership to C2. So there had been no breach of contract and Amex hadnt 
been wrong to decline the section 75 claim.
Mr L disagreed and appealed against our investigators assessment.
In my provisional decision I made the following findings:
Mr L would be able to make a valid section 75 claim against Amex so long as the 
claim met the relevant conditions. These were that there had been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by C1, and that certain technical criteria had been met.
Amex appeared to be arguing that one of the technical criteria hadnt been met, 
because the payment to C1 had been made through a third party payment processor. 
I acknowledged that sometimes the use of third parties to take payments can cause 
problems with the technical criteria which need to be in place, but in this case Amex 
couldnt evidence that a third party had been used and, in any event, the third party in 
question was not one that I would normally consider to cause problems with the 
technical criteria.
I carefully considered C1s terms and conditions. I noted that C1 hadnt given Mr L 
the required contractual notice of four weeks before transferring his membership. I 
also noted that the contract allowed for a transfer of membership only in the event of 
re-location or the opening of a new club. I didnt think either of those scenarios were 
a true reflection of what had happened  which was that C1 had closed and 
dissolved. So I didnt think C1 was able, contractually, to transfer Mr Ls membership 
to C2.
This meant Mr L had paid £250 for a membership of C1 which had not been 
provided. There had been a breach of contract. As no services had been received, it 
seemed fair that the remedy for the breach would be a full refund.
I observed that there were parts of the contract which attempted to limit C1s liability 
in the event of a breach. Having analysed the relevant terms alongside the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 and guidance issued by the Competition and Markets 
Authority, I thought it likely the terms in question, which sought to limit C1s liability 
for any kind of breach, to £100, would be considered unfair.
I didnt think it reasonable, on account of the terms attempting to limit C1s liability, to 
reduce any compensation paid to Mr L as a result of Amexs failure to honour the 
section 75 claim.
Mr L could hold Amex jointly liable, under section 75 of the CCA, for C1s breach of 
contract. It had declined his claim unfairly. It followed that it should put him in the 
same position he would have been in, had it dealt with his section 75 claim fairly, by 
paying him £250 plus compensatory interest.
Mr L accepted my provisional decision. Amex has not replied by the deadline I gave for it to 
make further submissions, so I have proceeded to review the case again with a view to 
making my decision final.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party to the complaint has put forward any new evidence, comments or arguments 
for me to consider. I therefore see no reason to depart from the findings I reached in my 
provisional decision, as outlined above.
It follows that I think Amex acted unfairly in declining Mr Ls section 75 claim and now needs 
to put things right.
My final decision
For the summarised reasons from my provisional decision, outlined above, my final decision 
is that I uphold Mr Ls complaint and direct Amercican Express Services Europe Limited to 
take the following action:
Pay £250 to Mr L, adding 8% simple interest per year* to this amount, calculated 
from the date it declined his section 75 claim, to the date he is reimbursed.
*If American Express Services Europe Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr L a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman