DRN-2609477
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank Plc left him without a working debit card.
What happened
Mr S has a current account with Lloyds. On 17 March 2020, he visited a local Lloyds branch 
update his contact details. The branch staff updated his address. They also cancelled a 
replacement card which had been sent to his old address but failed to order a new one. 
A few days later Mr S left the UK because his family were concerned about flight restrictions 
being brought about by the ongoing pandemic. A month or so later, while still abroad, Mr S 
realised his card wasnt working. He called Lloyds and was told it had expired.
Mr S was concerned by this as it meant he couldnt make card payments from his account. 
He complained. Lloyds apologised and advised it could either order a card to his new 
address to be forwarded on to him, or it could help arrange a transfer so he could access his 
money through another account. It also offered him £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience it had caused him and refunded his call costs (£200). 
Mr S was of the opinion more compensation was appropriate because this matter had meant 
he couldnt pay tuition fees or maintain some subscription services. He asked our service for 
an independent review.
The investigator considered the complaint and agreed Lloyds could have provided a better 
service. But he wasnt persuaded the impact on Mr S justified further compensation. Mr S 
disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the outcome the investigator has reached is fair here. Ill explain why.
Lloyds sent Mr S a replacement card on 4 March 2020. This seems to have been the result 
of an updated chip. I dont think its unusual for a bank to issue a replacement card even if 
an existing one is not yet due to expire, so I dont think Lloyds did anything wrong here. 
Mr S attended branch on 17 March 2020 and his address was updated. Its unclear what 
was discussed in branch but ultimately the replacement card sent on 4 March 2020 was 
cancelled. If Mr S didnt have it (as he doesnt appear to have) and had moved address, he 
wouldnt have had access to it. I think it was therefore reasonable for the branch to cancel 
the replacement card as a security precaution. I do, however, think it should have told Mr S 
what it was doing and have ordered a replacement. Im not persuaded it did either. 
If the branch had ordered a replacement card on 17 March 2020, it would have taken 3-5 
working days to arrive at Mr Ss new address. Mr S has said he left the UK on or around 20 
March 2020. Im not persuaded its most likely the card would have arrived before Mr Ss 
departure. So although I accept he was later without an active card, I dont think this was 
avoidable. In any case, it wasnt reasonably foreseeable for Lloyds that Mr S would be 
leaving the country so soon.
That being said, it must have been concerning for Mr S to later discover he couldnt make 
payments using a card which had an expiry date a significant amount of time in the future. 
Understandably Mr S called Lloyds to find out what the problem was. And this was at some 
cost given the international nature of the calls. Im pleased to see Lloyds dealt with the 
matter quite quickly and gave Mr S sensible options around getting a new card sent to his 
UK address to be forwarded on to him, or to transfer money to an account held elsewhere. 
Mr S says because he couldnt make payments using a card he couldnt pay his tuition fees 
or maintain some subscription services. For the reasons set out above, I dont think I can 
fairly hold Lloyds responsible for this. In any case, it seems to me Mr S could have mitigated 
the impact by paying for these items through alternative means  such as by bank transfer. 
He did, after all, have access to online banking and hold accounts elsewhere. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think the £100 compensation Lloyds has paid Mr S 
fairly reflects the impact Lloyds mistake  of not telling him about the card cancellation  had 
on him. And I think the £200 for call costs means he hasnt been left out of pocket.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think that Lloyds Bank PLC should do anything more 
to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman