DRN-2331499
The complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about the way Lloyds Bank PLC has compensated him for its mis-sale of 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy attached to a loan.
What happened
In 2017, Mr C complained to Lloyds that hed been mis-sold a PPI policy with a loan ending 
4567. In January 2018, Lloyds responded to Mr C accepting that the PPI policy had been 
mis-sold. It offered to pay him compensation for this mis-sale of £2,460.13. 
Lloyds had very little information still available about the loan, or the single premium PPI 
attached to it. So, in accordance with what this service would normally expect banks to do in 
such circumstances, its offer was based on the amount Lloyds has paid out to customers 
who have been compensated for the mis-sale of similar single premium policies on loans. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied hed been offered enough compensation and he complained to Lloyds 
about this. He also provided Lloyds with a copy of an extract from the credit agreement for 
his loan and said it had commenced on 24 November 1988. The credit agreement showed 
that the loan was for £2,000, to which a single premium PPI policy had been added costing 
£281. The total cost of the loan, including interest, was £3,484.80 and it was to be repaid by 
60 monthly instalments of £58.08.
Using the additional information which Mr C had provided, Lloyds recalculated the 
compensation due to him. And in November 2019 it wrote to Mr C saying that, as the revised 
calculation resulted in a lower compensation figure, it was not intending to pay Mr C any 
more than it had already agreed.
Mr C wasnt happy with Lloyds response and still thought that he hadnt been offered enough 
to fully compensate him for its mis-sale of the PPI policy. So he complained to this service.
Our adjudicator thought that the original offer made by Lloyds of £2,460 was fair. So he 
didnt think it needed to do anything more to compensate him for the mis-sale. 
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators view. He still felt he hadnt been offered enough by 
Lloyds, including for the distress, inconvenience and time Lloyds had caused him by the way 
it had dealt with his complaint. So the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has upheld Mr Cs mis-sale complaint. This means that in this decision I wont be 
looking at how the policy came to be sold. Ill only be looking at whether the way Lloyds has 
compensated Mr C for the mis-sale is fair.
When, as in this case, a business accepts that it has mis-sold a PPI policy, we expect it  as 
far as is possible  to put the consumer in the position they would have been in if the mis-
sale hadnt occurred. This would normally involve the business refunding any PPI premiums 
which have been paid, together with any interest charged on those premiums. Sometimes 
the business may also need to take account of such things as PPI rebates the consumer has 
received, or additional bank charges they may have incurred as a result of taking out the 
PPI. And we would also expect the business to add simple interest for the time the consumer 
has been deprived of money they would otherwise have had available to them if they hadnt 
been sold the PPI (using a rate of 15% up until April 1993 and 8% thereafter). 
However, when Lloyds made its offer of compensation to Mr C in 2018, it had insufficient 
information available about the loan and PPI policy on which to estimate the amount due to 
him using this method. So Lloyds based its compensation offer on the average amount that it 
has paid other consumers in similar mis-sale cases. This resulted in an offer of £2,460.13.
When Mr C subsequently provided a copy of an extract from his loan agreement and told 
Lloyds that the loan started on 24 November 1988, Lloyds had the information it needed to 
calculate a much more accurate estimate of the compensation payable to Mr C. The only 
principal piece of information it was still missing was the actual amount of time that the loan 
had lasted for. In the knowledge that such personal loans are often closed before they reach 
their full term, Lloyds used an estimated loan length of 22 months in its revised calculation, 
rather than the full term of 60 months shown on the loan agreement. This gave a much lower 
compensation figure than had already been offered to Mr C in 2018.
Ive reviewed the detailed workings Lloyds has provided to support the revised 
compensation figure it has calculated using this information. And having done so, Im 
satisfied that these have been undertaken correctly and that they do result in a significantly 
lower compensation figure than Mr C has already received for this mis-sale. 
However, I do accept that it is quite possible that the 22-month estimated term of the loan 
that Lloyds has used in its revised compensation calculation may not be the right one. So I 
have also considered what affect a different assumed term would have. And Ive found that, 
no matter how long the loan actually lasted, the estimated compensation payable to Mr C 
would still fall some way short of what he has already received.
Ive also carefully considered what Mr C has said about the distress, inconvenience and time 
which Lloyds has caused him by the way it has dealt with his complaint. And I accept that 
there may have been occasions when the complaint could have been progressed in a 
timelier manner than it was by Lloyds. But I dont consider that Lloyds has been excessively 
slow in responding to Mr C on this case. And Lloyds offer was well above that which was 
needed to put Mr C back in the position he would have been had the PPI not been mis-sold 
to him. So I dont think it would be fair to require Lloyds to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman