DRN-1908206
The complaint
Ms M says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (PDL), irresponsibly lent to her and 
that the lending caused her great financial hardship. Ms M says the lending kept her in debt 
for longer. 
What happened
This complaint is about three short-term loans PDL provided to Ms M between November 
2014 and March 2015. Ms Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 29/11/2014 20/01/2015 1 £200.00 £270.00
2 21/02/2015 20/03/2015 1 £100.00 £121.60
3 20/03/2015 18/09/2015 6 £600.00 £253.00
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. They thought that the checks carried out by 
PDL didnt give any cause for concern that would suggest it should carry out further checks. 
The adjudicator didnt think it would have been proportionate for PDL to have asked for the 
amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable for her.
Ms M didnt agree with the adjudicator. She said she was already in financial difficulty at the 
time of the lending and the interest rates charges were exploitative and unethical whatever a 
persons income. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
PDL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that PDL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that PDL was required to establish 
whether Ms M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint. After doing so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I should first explain that when considering a complaint this service treats each complaint on 
its own particular merits and circumstances. So, while Ive taken note of Ms Ms comments 
about this type of lending, I will only be looking at her particular circumstances and her 
relationship with PDL. 
PDL has told us of the checks it carried out before agreeing to each loan. Ms M confirmed 
her monthly income was between £1,100 and £1,390. Ms Ms expenditure each month was 
between £270 and £320. This left Ms M with a disposable income each month of between 
£780 and £1,080. So, on the face of it the lending would appear affordable on a pounds and 
pence basis and it wasnt unreasonable for PDL to have agreed to lend to Ms M. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Ms M provided to PDL which would have caused it to be concerned that she 
was having problems managing her finances.
Its possible that Ms Ms financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information she provided, or any other information PDL obtained. And if her circumstances 
were different Ms Ms actual financial position may well have been more apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  had been obtained. 
Ms M has told us she was in a debt management plan and has given evidence to show this 
to be the case around 2014/2015. But I note all of the loan agreements asked Ms M to 
confirm she wasnt currently in or planning to enter into a debt management programme or and Individual Voluntary Arrangement and that she didnt intend to apply to be made 
bankrupt. So PDL could only make a decision based on the information it had available at 
the time. That information  and the fact the loans were at the beginning of the lending 
relationship  I dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loans being unaffordable 
or unsustainable for Ms M. 
In these circumstances, I dont think PDL needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Ms M for evidence of her income and outgoings which 
PDL could have gathered from her bank statements or copies of any bills, as examples. I 
have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by PDL before it lent to 
Ms M. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led PDL to conclude that it 
should decline Ms Ms applications for the loans. And there isnt anything to have prompted it 
to ask for more information about Ms M. So, I dont think PDL was wrong to have provided 
these loans, based solely on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments PDL did for the loans was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Ms M wasnt unreasonable. 
I appreciate my conclusion to Ms Ms complaint will be a disappointment to her. I do 
appreciate how strongly she feels about the lending, but I hope I have managed to explain 
how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman