DRN-3941530
The complaint
Mr W says the advice Canter Holland Ltd (CHL) gave him in March 2016 has or will cause 
him to incur higher tax liabilities in respect of his pension than shouldve been the case.
Mr W is represented by X-Claims Limited (XCL).
What happened
I start by noting that the advice complained about was provided to Mr and Mrs W. As this 
related to their individual pension provisions a case has been set-up for each to deal 
separately with their own position.
According to notes of a meeting between Mr W, his wife and CHL on 8 March 2016 and a 
follow-up email of 10 March 2016, they had approximately £270,000 cash in their limited 
company available for distribution. The main focus of discussion was their options for 
utilising these funds.
A financial review was conducted for Mr and Mrs W and its recorded that their top priority 
was to make provision for their retirement. And in so doing: to make tax efficient investment 
from Mr Ws limited company; to invest for the long-term; to adopt a high risk investment 
outlook; and to boost retirement funds. They both signed the review to acknowledge its 
contents at the end of March 2016.
At the time of the advice Mr W was aged 41, married with two dependent children. His 
expected income in 2016 was £85,000 a year from his public service, and a further £240,000 
from his private activities. The family home was worth around £1 million with an outstanding 
mortgage of about £300,000. There were no other significant liabilities. Mr and Mrs W also 
held other savings and investments aside from their occupational pension scheme (OPS) 
provisions.
Mr Ws OPS had a normal retirement date of 60 for his pre-April 2015 membership. And his 
retirement horizon was said to be 67.
CHLs recommendations to Mr and Mrs W were recorded in the following terms:
-Draw dividends from your limited company that will be sufficient for your house 
renovations, ISA contribution this year for Mr W (£15,240) and ISA contributions for 
you both in the next tax year (£30,480).
-Make pension contributions for you both in this tax year at a level you feel 
appropriate from the limited company
-Invest your ISA's (both existing and proposed) in a portfolio of funds managed by 
Canter Holland at a risk level 5. This is based on the long-term investment timescale 
for your pensions and is the level of risk your current ISAs are invested.
In August 2020 XCL complained to CHL about the recommendations it had made to Mr W. 
The points raised by Mr Ws representative about his case have evolved during its journey.
Ill be focussing on the matter he brought to this Service, which was about the advice he 
received in March 2016.
Essentially, Mr W is concerned about CHLs advice around the annual allowance and 
lifetime allowance (LTA) calculations, and what his representative asserts is a consequent 
exposure to actual and/or potential increased tax liabilities, that could otherwise have been 
managed better or avoided. XCL also says it advised him to liquidate his company and 
questions whether this was best advice.
CHL issued its final response to Mr W on 18 September 2020 and provided subsequent 
clarifications. It refuted his complaint points. It said it had followed appropriate guidance in 
calculating his annual allowance position. It said he was aware of the risks of exceeding his 
LTA in the future. And that it had not provided him with advice about liquidating his company.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He said he hadnt been provided with 
evidence of him incurring an annual allowance tax charge as a direct result of CHLs advice 
in March 2016. He concluded that given how far away Mr W was from retirement and the 
potential for future changes to the LTA tax regime, it wasnt possible to say whether hell be 
worse off as a result of the decisions he took to open a personal pension in 2016. And he 
thought CHL had told Mr W to discuss the status of his business with his accountant.
XCL on Mr Ws behalf disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. It re-
iterated the arguments previously made and provided further information in support of his 
case.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators view, Mr Ws complaint was passed to me 
to review afresh. I issued provisional decisions in November 2022 and January 2023. At 
each stage both parties have provided further detailed submissions and commentary on 
each others positions. 
Im grateful for all submissions to what is a complex, highly contested and finely balanced 
complaint. Ive reviewed the information and arguments received carefully in arriving at this 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint, but not to the extent hed like. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by CHL for Mr W. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like CHL. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Turning firstly to the matter of the calculation of Mr Ws annual allowance in 2016.
In my first provisional decision I said I was puzzled about why CHL and Mr W were at such a 
variance about the correct calculation of his annual allowance between 2012/13 and 
2015/16. Broadly speaking, this was something that shouldve been a matter of fact.
I invited both parties to provide detailed feedback on the workings of the other parties 
calculations. In addition, from CHL I requested copy statements it says it received from Mr W 
in 2016 to help it build its calculations. And from XCL I wanted evidence from the source of 
the figures it provided. In theory, the data shouldve been coming from the same place, Mr 
Ws pension provider.
CHL didnt provide a copy of statements it received from Mr W in 2016, but responded in the 
following terms:
The 1995 Section input figure for 2013/14 and 2014/15 is similar across both our and X-
Claims calculations. The 1995 Section input figure for 2012/13 is however very different and 
this is the cause of the wide variance between our annual allowance figures and those 
produced by X-Claims, as our calculations leave some annual allowance to be carried 
forwards and X-Claims calculations do not.
Attached is a copy of our full workings and how we calculated these pension input figures. 
For clarity, in the 2012/13 year (which is the period with a wide discrepancy) our workings 
were as follows:
-At the start of the tax year: Annual pension of £13,386.75 x 16 + lump sum of 
£40,160.25 + CPI%* = The £254,348.25 value of [Mr Ws] NHS Pension Scheme 
benefits at the start of the 2012/13 tax year.
-At the end of the tax year: Annual pension of £14,416.58 x 16 + lump sum of 
£43,249.75 = The £273,915.03 value of [Mr Ws] NHS Pension Scheme benefits at 
the end of the 2012/13 tax year.
-The £273,915.03 value of [Mr Ws] NHS Pension Scheme benefits at the end of the 
tax year  The £254,348.25 value of [Mr Ws] NHS Pension Scheme benefits at the 
start of the tax year = £19,566.78 growth in [Mr Ws] NHS Pension Scheme benefits 
for 2012/13.
The input figure used by X-Claims for 2012/13 is significantly higher than the input figures 
they have used in previous and subsequent tax years. This contradicts X-Claims own 
statement that Mr Ws income levels had been consistent for years, as only a significant 
increase in [Mr Ws] income should have increased his pension input by the amount they 
have calculated. On the contrary, X-Claims statement seems to support our own 
calculations, whereby you can see that the input figures used were kept consistent across 
each tax year.Mr W has provided what appears to be an extract from his OPS provider system showing 
details such as his reckonable service, employer pay and the opening and closing values of 
his scheme pension for the purposes of input to annual allowance calculations. He 
responded to my question in the following terms:
The correct way the [OPS] input (95 section) is calculated is: - number of years and days / 
80 X current pensionable pay. The pension this produces is multiplied by 3 to get the value 
of the lump sum. For annual allowance inputs the value is the pension x 16 plus the lump 
sum.
This value is then uplifted by inflation from the previous August to give an opening value for 
the start of the new pension year and compared with the pension and lump sum (multiplied 
up by 16 plus lump sum) at the end of the pension year. The difference between these two 
schemes is the pension input.
CHLs erroris to have used the pensionable pay of £82,380.48 which was correct ONLY 
for the 2014/15 pension year and they have assumed service of exactly 13 years starting at 
the 2011/2012 tax year. They have then carried out the following calculation for each year 
going forwards simply by adding on 1 year of service.
2011/12
13/80 X £82,380.48 = £13,386 per year pension with a lump sum of £40,158. They have 
then moved to the next year and calculated the following
2012/13
14/80 X £82,380.48 = £14,416.58 with a lump sum of £43,249. They have then compared 
the difference of the two annual pensions and multiplied this by 16 giving a pension input of 
£16,477.
This is completely the wrong way to work this out. As you can see from the service extract 
attached, my pensionable pay although £82,380.48 in 14/15 was only £63,348.00 in 
2011/12. So even using CHLs (incorrect) format described above, use of the correct figures 
for pensionable pay would have produced a very much larger pension input.
I should make it clear at this point  its not the role of this Service to check detailed 
calculations or test different technical methodologies. That said, I think both submissions 
have been helpful in getting to the nub of this issue.
I think there was something wrong in how CHL approached the calculation of Mr Ws annual 
allowance position in 2016. It used incorrect information about his employer pay, taking his 
salary in 2014/15 as the basis for all its calculations. This meant it was significantly adrift, 
because the records show Mr Ws relevant earnings had been far from steady  ranging 
from around £36,600 in 2010/11 to £88,200 in 2016/17.
The main caveat I would place on my finding here is that pension data provided today can 
mask adjustments made during the lifetime of the scheme. Such changes, if there have been 
any, dependent on when they occur, how they apply and are reflected in the figures, would 
need to be considered. It wouldnt be fair to hold CHL responsible for matters it couldnt 
possibly have known in 2016.
For the avoidance of doubt, although CHL has previously argued it was difficult to obtain 
certain information from his employer about scheme benefits. The letter from his OPS 
provider which indicated such only related the 2015 scheme. And the proper methodology to 
assess the annual allowance position was driven by his annual salary  I think this basic 
information was more likely than not available at the time of providing him with advice, and 
certainly for prior years.Specifically in respect of Mr Ws 2015 OPS scheme (which appears to have been a 
replacement for his former OPS) Mr W says:
To enter a zero sum in the 2015 section input is clearly erroneous; my salary for 2015/16 
and the percentage pension contribution (13.5%) was also known. This could have given a 
figure roughly estimated at 13.5% x £82,348 = £11,117. The actual figure was £18,954.92. 
CHL obtained exactly this information regarding my wifes 2015 section [OPS] inputs at the 
same time.
CHL said:
[Mr W] claims that we failed entirely to suggest any pension input at all for the 2015 
section in the 2015/16 tax year. This claim is inaccurate. Our calculations show a total 
pension input of £16,456.29 for 2015/16. Our calculation sheet does not detail the split 
between the 1995 Section and the 2015 Section, but that is because the calculations were 
for our internal use only (hence the lack of headings, explanatory notes and other formatting 
that we would include on client-facing documentation).
[Mr Ws] presentation of our calculationsin his latest submission is very misleading as we 
have never designated the accrual of £16,456.29 entirely to the 1995 Section in our own 
documents or calculations. [His] own calculations show accrual of just £4,065.35 within the 
1995 Section for 2015/16. If we had not made any provision for 2015 Section accrual in our 
calculations, then we would have likely arrived at a similar pension input figure, rather than 
the significantly higher figure of £16,456.29 shown in our calculations.
I think CHLs approach, although significantly flawed for the reasons Ive already set out, did 
provide some recognition of Mr Ws 2015 OPS benefits. But the data extract hes provided 
from his OPS is also interesting because it shows as well as CHL needing to consider his 
new active 2015 OPS, his then deferred section 95 benefits would also still accrue 
additional value, which counted towards his annual allowance calculations. This effect isnt 
captured anywhere in its advice to Mr W.
Further, I mentioned in my first provisional decision that I wouldve expected to have seen 
some reference from CHL to the new tapering arrangements for the annual allowance in its 
advice to Mr W in March 2016. These were introduced by Government from 2016/17.
XCL had said that by using up all Mr Ws carry-forward of annual allowance entitlement in 
2015/16, this impacted on his position in future years. I said it hadnt made a telling case that 
taking his maximum annual allowance entitlement in 2015/16, was less beneficial to him 
than spreading his allowance over future years. But given the information and arguments Mr 
W has made subsequently, I think this omission assumes more significance.
Finally, Mr W has also questioned further advice from CHL in 2016/17 for him to make a 
further £10,000 contribution to his personal pension. Its not clear from the information I have 
whether this was a personal or employer contribution. Given what Ive already set-out, this 
recommendation needed more consideration of his annual allowance position.
So, Im upholding this element of Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out considerations and 
proposals on assessing loss, if any, below.
Next Ill turn to Mr Ws concerns about his LTA and the potential for him to incur higher tax in 
the future if he exceeds the limit at that time.
Its fair to say theres been a degree of policy change in this area over the years. The LTA 
was introduced in 2006 setting a maximum value of benefits someone could receive without 
a tax penalty at £1.5m. This increased each year until 2010-11, when it reached £1.8m. The Government decided to reduce the LTA in 2012-13 when it was set at £1.5m. In 2014-2015 it 
fell to £1.25m. In 2016-17 the LTA was set at £1.0m and for a short period was then 
increased annually to take account of inflation. Its current policy to freeze the allowance until 
2025/26  but these matters are subject to review with each budget or fiscal event.
XCL told this Service:
As regards the lifetime allowance, any competent IFA advising a high earning [individual] in 
a generous Defined Benefit Scheme would know that [he] would exceed the lifetime 
allowance. They can only assume that the LTA will continue and should never mislead a 
client into believing that the LTA would be abolished.
At the time they advised Mr W to make this contribution he was 42 years of age. There is a 
normal retirement age of 67 for [his public service pension], and at the point they advised 
him on this, his pension was already worth about £20,000 a year with a tax free lump sum in 
excess of £50,000in reality Canter Holland should have asked to see a Total Reward 
Statement from the client which would have shown them the actual value of the pension to 
date. This is and should be standard practice when dealing with [his sort of pension]. The 
value at the point they advised on the lump sum investment was more than £454,000 and 
the client had over 15 years of membership in [his occupational] Pension left.
XCLs argument isnt without merit. But I dont think the position it asserts is as clear cut as it 
suggests.
In framing its advice to Mr W about this matter, CHL said the following to him:
We looked at your current [defined benefit pensions] and ISA investments.although we 
feel that your pension benefits will be close to the Lifetime Allowance at retirement we feel it 
is unlikely that they will breach the Lifetime Allowance (LTA). This accounts for some 
assumptions, the main two being that you remain in [the occupational] scheme until 
retirement and salary increases at 2.5% per annum together with the Lifetime Allowance 
increasing at 2.5% per annum from April 2019.
These seem reasonable assumptions at the time.
The problem for XCL in making its case are the number of uncertainties between the point of 
the advice and when Mr Ws pension benefits are likely to be assessed against the LTA, 
which will be between 18-25 years hence.
For example, theres an argument that as Mr W was 41 and was in a demanding profession 
he wouldnt have waited until he was, say, 67 to start drawing his pension benefits. Earlier 
retirement would have implications for contributions and might lead to an actuarial reduction 
of his benefits. Of course, when Mr W actually decides to retire is a matter of conjecture.
Im also mindful of the strong position of Mr W and his household finances, including his 
extensive and varied holdings. In such circumstances its possible he will ultimately decide 
not to take the benefits from his personal pension. While these sit in the plan they are 
treated as being outside of his estate and so not subject to inheritance tax liabilities. And 
there could be tax advantages to any potential beneficiaries, subject to circumstance.
I think its more likely than not it was CHL which introduced the possibility the LTA could be 
abolished in the future. It was an odd speculation, especially given what was known about 
this policy area at the time. However, I dont think Mr W was left in any doubt about the likely 
position with his LTA. In its advice to Mr W on 10 March 2016, CHL said:"We feel that if you make a pension contribution it is likely that, together with your 
[occupational] pensions, your benefits will exceed the LTA in the future. Any pension 
benefits in excess of the LTA (when taken) will be subject to a tax charge of up to 55%.
There is an argument that the LTA may no longer be in existence in the future, but making a 
pension contribution is a gamble that the LTA is abolished at some point in the future and 
there is no guarantee this will be the case. You may also feel that by taking the funds 
personally and them being subject to personal and corporation tax (instead of a pension 
contribution) that the tax position is "neutral'' when compared to the LTA charge of 55%"
I think CHL made clear the risks of making a personal pension contribution in March 2016. 
Mr W has around 19 years until he reaches 67. We dont know when he will actually retire. 
We dont know when he will take the benefits. We dont know what the various tax and 
pension allowances will be at that time. We dont know what the relative performance of the 
investment options foregone by Mr W in 2016 will be in 2041. And we dont know what effect 
mitigations taken between now and when Mr W retires will be on any excess exposure he 
has to his overall tax bill.
Given the moving parts here, clearly Mr W cant evidence a crystalised overall loss (or gain) 
at this time in relation to the advice CHL gave him to make a pension contribution in March 
2016 and the impact on his LTA. Nor can he project such with any confidence.
So, given this backdrop, it would be unreasonable for me to direct CHL to make an award of 
compensation to Mr W around the complaint he raises about his LTA exposure.
Finally, in responding to the Investigators view, XCL questioned the validity of advising Mr 
W to liquidate his company and put all the funds into pensions, where the company wasnt 
paying a salary to the client. It questioned whether this was best advice. CHL said:
We are not accountants so we did not tell [Mr W] to stop using the business for trading 
income. Our only recommendation was that [he] should discuss the continuation of the 
limited company with his accountant (who was independent from Canter Holland).
In our email of 7th November 2016 we actually encouraged [Mr W] that our advice is to 
hold with the limited company for now until you have spoken with your accountant. In our 
email of 8th November 2016 we concluded that any winding up of the limited company was 
certainly something that requires further discussion with your accountant  we would be 
happy to be party to this if you felt it appropriate.
Although we offered to take part in any discussions with [Mr Ws] accountant, we ultimately 
were not invited to have any further input and so any decision to subsequently liquidate the 
company or to stop using the business for trading income was made by [Mr W] and/or his 
accountant without further input from Canter Holland.
Its clear there was discussion between Mr W and CHL about the status of his company. But 
I also think its reasonably clear CHL set out the boundaries of its expertise and signposted 
him to other professionals to get advice on this matter.
As an aside, I note that Mr Ws limited company is still in existence.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ws complaint, but not to the extent hed like. My aim is to return him to the 
position hed have been in now, or as close as reasonably possible, had it not been for the 
failings of Canter Holland Ltd.Asked what options it considered for utilising Mr Ws available funds in 2016, CHL told this 
Service:
all of the above options were deemed suitable for [Mr W] and were used as part of [Mr 
Ws] financial planning. We established a Stocks & Shares ISA for [him] and he fully utilised 
his ISA allowance for the tax year in question (2015/16) and for subsequent tax years. We 
also set up a Collective Investment Account for [Mr W], through which we made use of his 
annual exempt amount for capital gains tax. And we arranged an Enterprise Investment 
Scheme investment and several Venture Capital Trust subscriptions for [him], with him 
taking advantage of the substantial tax relief up front each time.
However, the Personal Pension best met [Mr Ws] objective of minimising tax upon funds 
drawn from his limited company.
Further payments into his ISA, Collective Investment Account, Enterprise Investment 
Scheme or Venture Capital Trust would have required [Mr W] to draw funds from his limited 
company first, incurring corporation tax, income tax and potentially National Insurance 
liabilities. An ISA or Collective Investment Account investment would not have generated 
any immediate tax relief to offset these income tax and National Insurance liabilities. An 
investment into an Enterprise Investment Scheme or Venture Capital Trust would have 
generated initial income tax relief of 30%, however this would still have not fully offset the 
corporation tax, income tax and potential National Insurance liabilities (for example, the 
income tax alone for [Mr W] would have been 40% or 45% if drawn as salary and 32.5% or 
37.5% if drawn as dividend).
In contrast, the employer contribution into a Personal Pension created no corporation tax, 
income tax or National Insurance liabilities, either personally or for the limited company, and 
so this was the most suitable option.
Mr W has told this Service he believes the bare minimum extra tax burden created by CHL 
was £21,000. But he went on to summarise his thoughts about what shouldve happened in 
the following terms:
I would have invested funds within the company in a tracker fund and realised the proceeds 
at the end of my career, subject to Corporation Tax and Business Asset Disposal Relief. 
Instead, I was poorly advised to invest in a private pension fund, resulting in signicant 
nancial liabilities both now and in the future. This was due to large pension tax charges and 
also signicant tax burden related to lifetime allowance excesses and subsequent income 
tax on pension income in the presence of a pre-existing [OPS benefits].
The alternative (and appropriate) strategy would have enabled access to favourable tax 
rates of 19% (corporation tax) on the growth within of the fund at the point that the 
underlying funds are sold down, & 10% (Business Asset Disposal Relief) at the point of 
withdrawal, up to the rst £1m. In addition, there would also be the advantage of the 
exibility of using funds earlier than a pension (e.g. for salary or dividends) if this had been 
required.
As of todays date, the dierence in the 2 strategies is £157,232.55 - £50,057.65 = 
£107,174.90. However, the overall balance of the alternative strategy at the time that I was 
planning to realise the investment (i.e. at retirement age) is demonstrated as the dierence 
between the 2 investment strategies at age 65. This is £809,094.52 - £285,789.78 = 
£523,304.74
I have informed Mr W that this Service has limits to the awards that can be enforced based 
on when the events occurred and when he brought his complaint to this Service. In his case 
that would be £160,000. As his expectation of compensation exceeded half a million pounds, 
I was bound to inform him that his only route to attempting to secure such would be through 
the courts. And thats not a matter I can advise him on.Perhaps unsurprisingly the position of Mr W and CHL on the matter of loss are as night and 
day. The proposal I make to assess any financial detriment wont be perfectly satisfactory to 
either party.
So, for example, Im assuming Mr W wouldve taken funds from his company in 2016, one 
way or another, whereas his favoured scenarios suggest hed have kept funds in his 
company. Ill be assuming Mr W takes benefits from his pension, CHL will no doubt observe 
the possibility that he incurs no tax and funds pass to beneficiaries on a preferential basis.
Redress isnt often a scientific matter. Im conscious of the need to avoid the benefit of 
hindsight. Nevertheless, I believe my proposals are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
The framework for the redress Im going to use is based on what we know from 
contemporaneous evidence. That is Mr Ws objectives and requirements in 2016 were clear. 
His priority was planning for retirement. He wanted to take excess funds from his business. 
Context for this mayve been discussions underway about the possible liquidation of his 
company.
Ive already set out in some detail why Im not providing for a calculation of potential loss in 
relation to Mr Ws projected LTA position.
As the Investigator noted, its rare we would say investing in a personal pension was 
unsuitable due to the necessity of providing for the future. However, CHL didnt give Mr W 
the full facts concerning his annual allowance, indeed it led him to believe he had plenty of 
headroom, when clearly he didnt. This was a material consideration that shouldve been 
weighed with other alternatives for utilising funds from his business for his personal benefit. 
But we also need to recognise these alternatives wouldve come with their own tax 
consequences.
CHLs advice to Mr W in 2016 indicated the lead alternative to a pension contribution was 
taking dividends from his company (and presumably investing these). So this was the 
comparator I proposed should be used in considering what if any redress was required. This 
would need to consider not only the impact of upfront taxes and reliefs for each option, and 
the effects of these on investment returns, but also the effect of these matters when 
withdrawing benefits. Certain assumptions would have to be made and that wasnt a 
straight-forward matter.
Mr W thought my proposal on redress wasnt right. He said:
The proposed framework for redress relies on two assumptions that would not have been 
prudent at the time. The first assumption is that I would be taking money out of the company, 
secondly that the company was to be liquidated. Neither of these assumptions are correct.
In the recent provisional decision it is stated He wanted to take excess funds from his 
business and I am assuming that Mr W would have taken funds from the company in 
2016. This is not the case. The advice I sought in 2016 was to determine how best to use 
company funds for retirement planning. There was no specific decision nor necessity to 
withdraw funds from the company. It should be noted that the alternative scenario of keeping 
money within the company is documented to have been discussed with CHL; this is 
referenced in the recent provisional decision upholding my wifes complaint regarding the 
same advice I can see one alternative scenario she indicated earlier was to have kept funds 
in the company. Therefore the assumption that I would have taken funds from the company 
in 2016 is incorrect.Indeed, withdrawing funds would have been inadvisable in those circumstances. CHL did 
not advise me to liquidate the company. Nor did I do so. I continue to use the company for 
the purposes of my private medical practice and also to invest excess capital funds within 
the company for the long term.
If withdrawal of funds from the company as dividends had been advised in 2016, that advice 
would, in and of itself, have been questionable. It would have made me liable to immediate 
dividend tax and would not have been compatible with my stated investment aims of tax-
efficient long term investment. Such advice would have been in breach of Principle 6 of the 
Principles of Business as outlined in the FCA handbook, which requires a firm to pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers.
Funds withdrawn from the company in 2016 would have been subject to dividend tax. In 
addition, this could also lead to increased annual allowance charges due to the tapering of 
AA thresholds with higher incomes.
If funds were managed within the company, tax would only have been payable at the end of 
the investment term. Funds invested within the company would have numerous advantages 
if not held in a pension scheme (eg. no effect on Annual Allowance pension tax charges, no 
effect on potential lifetime allowance charges and ease of access at any age). Shares in the 
company could also have been passed to my beneficiaries, thus allowing a facility for long 
term planning if not realised.
Given their advice to hold with the limited company and had they correctly calculated the 
excess pension tax charges liable, the correct alternative investment strategy, given my 
stated aims would have been to keep and invest capital funds within the company. This 
would have been more beneficial in terms of long term investment, avoidance of large 
pension tax charges and potential implications on lifetime allowance charges.
In responding CHL said:
Mr W states that his alternative to making a pension contribution or drawing dividends 
would have been to invest funds within his companyand that this should be the 
comparator option used.
We disagree with Mr W and do not feel that this is a realistic comparator. Although it clearly 
was an option in 2016, it was not an option that [he] seriously considered at the time, nor is it 
an option that ourselves or Mr Ws company accountant would have been likely to 
recommend.
Investing such significant sums through [his business] would have almost certainly changed 
the company status in HMRCs view from being a Trading Company to being an Investment 
Company. Investment Companies are subject to Corporation Tax on the income and gains 
received from the investments they hold and so Mr W is wrong to state that tax would only 
have been payable at the end of the investment term  Corporation Tax would either be 
payable on investment income and gains each company year or (if the limited company 
qualifies as a micro-entity) at the point of any withdrawal. This is far less beneficial than the 
gross (tax-free) growth available within a personal pension scheme.
Furthermore, Mr W would still need to withdraw the funds from the company in the future. 
Mr W previously stated that he would do so by liquidating his limited company at retirement 
and utilising Business Asset Disposal Relief (formerly Entrepreneurs Relief) to pay Capital 
Gains Tax at the reduced rate of 10%...[but] Business Asset Disposal Relief is only available 
to Trading Companies and not to Investment Companies. Mr W would therefore be liable to 
Capital Gains Tax largely at the higher rate of 28% (at the time of our advice in 2016).
Alternatively Mr W could have drawn funds from the company periodically, pre or post 
retirement, as he suggests in his most recent response. Such withdrawals would attract the 
same Dividend Taxation, or Income tax and National Insurance liabilities, that [he] says he was so keen to avoid. We feel that this is therefore a moot point as such taxes would 
seemingly always be payable at some stage  either upon dividend withdrawals at the outset 
in 2016 (as per your proposed scenario) or upon dividend/salary withdrawals in later years.
Mr W also states that Shares in the company could also have been passed to my 
beneficiaries, thus allowing a facility for long term planning if not realised. Estate planning 
has not been a significant factor in Mr Ws complaint thus far, but as he raises the matter we 
feel that it is prudent to point out that by investing within his limited company and turning it 
into an Investment Company, [it] would no longer qualify for Business Relief (formerly 
Business Property Relief) in the event of [his] death. This change means that his 
beneficiaries would likely be deprived of 100% relief against Inheritance Tax on Mr Ws 
shares in [his company] as this relief is generally only available to Trading Companies and 
not to Investment Companies. Conversely, Mr Ws personal pension is outside of his estate 
for Inheritance Tax purposes and in the event of his death funds can be passed to his 
beneficiaries with no Inheritance Tax liabilities.
Finally and ironically, we note that Mr W states CHL did not advise me to liquidate the 
company. This is quite confusing as until very recently a key point in his complaint was 
precisely that we had advised him to liquidate the company! This complete reversal could be 
somewhat amusing, were it not for the frustration of how much time and effort all parties 
have spent corresponding on this point. Nonetheless, we are pleased that Mr W is now in 
agreement with our position on the matter.
In his last submission Mr W said CHLs argument about the status of his company changing 
from trading to an investment status if hed invested available funds through it was wrong:
The purpose of my investments was to fund retirement. As such, the limited company would 
clearly no longer be required when I retire. It would be prudent, tax ecient, legal and wise 
to have invested within the company for retirement, draw down the invested funds to cash 2 
years prior to winding up the company and then realise the funds. As long as there was no 
investment activity within the last 2 years of trading, Business Asset Disposal Relief (BADR) 
is entirely sensible and legal.
For completeness, I have also had the chance to conrm this fact with my Independent 
Financial Adviser and also with my specialist tax accountant. They have conrmed both 
current precedent and legality for this approach.
I think these exchanges have been helpful in the sense that they illustrate the matters here 
are technical, specialist and cover different personal and business tax regimes. They also 
exhibit different professional opinions about what wouldve been the best strategy for Mr W 
to have followed. 
I reiterate  its not the role of this Service to weigh alternative tax planning methods.
Further, these submissions come several years after the event, and while I am sure they 
express genuine views of alternative futures from a 2016 starting point, Im bound to be 
mindful of the influence of hindsight. If we consider the dynamic nature of personal and 
business taxation alone over the period since the advice, had such changes been foreseen 
its more likely than not they would have a significant influence on any advice.
I tend to place more weight on evidence contemporaneous with the events complained 
about. 
Following a meeting between Mr and Mrs W in November 2015, CHL confirmed one of their 
objectives was to look at the most tax efficient use of the funds currently held in their 
business. It was noted that:One of the most tax efficient uses of funds held within a company is to make pension 
contributions for its directors/employees. These are treated as a business expense and are 
not subject to corporation tax - the individual also pays no personal taxation on the 
contributions
According to a meeting agenda dated 8 March 2016 held between Mr W and Mrs W and 
CHL the main topic for discussion was expressed in the following terms:
1. Limited Company:
Use of company funds: There is over £200,000 within the limited company which you would 
like to utilise in a tax efficient way. I believe you have two options:
i. Pay funds as a dividend to receive £138,029.86 (2015/16) or £124,811.69 (2016/17)
ii. Pay £200,000 to allocate to your pension accounts.
Considerations:
-Use of funds (if taken now, if invested to pension)
-Term of investment
-Lifetime Allowance (LTA)
-Inheritance v LTA (estate planning)
-Investment returns v tax
On 10 March 2016 CHL provided a follow-up email to Mr W which included the following 
notes of their conversation:
[Mr Ms] limited company is holding about £275,000 as cash and we discussed the 
options of how to use this in the most tax efficient way, if you are to take any dividends, this 
should be done in this tax year before the changes (and ultimate increase) in the dividend 
tax. The other option is to make a pension contribution for one or both of you.
Making a pension contribution from a limited company is the most tax efficient way of 
moving funds from a limited company in your own name. We feel that if you make a pension 
contribution it is likely that together with your NHS pensions your benefits will exceed the 
LTA in the future. Any pension benefits in excess of the LTA (when taken) will be subject to 
a tax charge of up to 55%. There is an argument that the LTA may no longer be in existence 
in the future, but making a pension contribution is a gamble that the LTA is abolished at 
some point in the future and there is no guarantee this will be the case. You may also feel 
that by taking the funds personally and them being subject to personal and corporation tax 
(instead of a pension contribution) that the tax position is "neutral" when compared to the 
LTA charge of 55%.
Later in March 2016, Mr and Mrs W signed a financial review form. This confirmed their top 
priority was to make provision for their retirement. And in so doing to: 
- Make tax efficient investment from the limited company.
- Invest for the long-term.
- Adopt a high-risk investment outlook; and 
- Boost retirement funds.
So, while the information from the time of the events complained about is far from perfect, 
the pattern from whats available leads me to conclude on balance that its more likely than 
not extraction of funds from Mr Ws business was the main focus for the advice he sought.I note that when Mr Ws complaint was brought to this Service, one of the key complaint 
points made was that CHL had advised him to liquidate his business. As Ive already found, 
its clear there was discussion between the parties about the status of his company. But I 
also think its reasonably clear CHL set out the boundaries of its expertise and signposted 
him to his accountant to seek further advice on the matter. Leaving aside that Mr W seems 
to face in a different direction on this point now, I note in his most recent submission he has 
also drawn on the opinion of his specialist tax accountant.
I think this is important because in the matters he was seeking advice on in 2015/16 there 
was clearly a strong interconnection between his personal and company requirements. 
Effective communications between his financial advisers and his accountant wouldve been 
paramount. I can see that CHL suggested discussions between it, the accountant and their 
mutual client. But no evidence of such communication has been provided. I think such 
liaison wouldve been important given Mr Ws circumstances, but I find no evidence of such. 
He held the ring here and so must take some responsibility.
It follows that I dont agree with Mr Ws alternative proposal on redress. And so neither do I 
find it necessary to make provision for a specialist actuarial firm to make the calculations. I 
think what Ive set out should be relatively straight-forward for CHL to deliver.
So, Im requiring Canter Holland Ltd to assess any loss using the following framework.
Step one  assess the notional value of Mr Ws equivalent funds, had he taken dividends 
from his company and invested these, instead of making pension contributions: 
i. Assume the funds Mr W took from his company for his personal pension 
contributions in 2015/16 and 2016/17 as advised by it, had instead been taken as 
dividends as soon as possible after its advice, and in the most tax-efficient manner. It 
should also assume any personal pension contribution it recommended in 2016/17 
was also paid into this replacement vehicle.
ii. Calculate returns to these funds, had they been invested in the same holdings and in 
the same proportions as his personal pension, but instead within the most tax-
efficient alternative investment wrapper available to him, taking into account any 
existing investments that mayve used some or all the available reliefs and 
allowances. For estimating returns beyond the date of my final decision, given Mr 
Ws risk appetite, it should assume FCAs higher rate applies. His recorded 
preference at the point of advice for retirement at the age of 67. It should assess any 
notional tax due on returns and withdrawal of benefits, assumed to be taken in 
broadly equal instalments until average life expectancy as calculated by the Office for 
National Statistics.
Step two assess the projected value of Mr Ws existing personal pension
i. Drawing on the existing value of Mr Ws personal pension and using the same 
assumptions as per step one in relation to future rates of return, age of retirement 
and the horizon for taking benefits, CHL should derive a comparator projection. It 
should assess notional tax due on returns and withdrawal of benefits, for example we 
know he is likely to be a higher-rate taxpayer in retirement given his OPS benefits.
ii. Im not aware Mr W has made further contributions to his pension (other than the 
disputed transactions). Nor whether hes taken any benefits or paid funds from it for 
matters not directly related to his complaint. After confirming the detailed position, 
then the value CHL obtains or the calculations it makes can assume these 
adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates. The adjusted, as 
appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Ws fund had he taken dividends and invested these, and the projected value of his personal pension 
will be his basic loss.
What Ive proposed doesnt mean Mr W wouldve utilised his excess business funds in the 
way Ive set out. Rather, its a reasonable proxy based on my findings and conclusions for 
what couldve happened and a basis to compare potential financial outcomes.
So, discounted cash-flow calculations are required to compare each step. If the value arrived 
at from step one is higher than the value at step two, Mr W has suffered a loss and that is 
the basic sum Canter Holland Ltd will need to pay him as redress. If the value of step two is 
greater than step one, he hasnt suffered financial detriment as a result of its failings.
CHL will need to provide Mr W with details of its calculations in a clear format.
Distress and inconvenience
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ws, I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation where failings have occurred, separate from pure financial loss. This isnt 
intended to fine or punish a business  which is the job of the regulator. But when 
somethings gone wrong, recognition of the emotional and practical impact can make a real 
difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Canter Holland Ltd.s actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience 
or upset. Its clear to me that this was the case here.
Mr W has been caused trouble in trying to get to the bottom of the effect of Canter Holland 
Ltd.s failings in the advice it gave him in 2016. I require it to make a payment of £300 to him 
in recognition of such.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint but not to the extent hed like. I 
now require Canter Holland Ltd to put matters right in the way Ive directed. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman