DRN-3102206
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are complaining about Masthaven Bank Limited (Masthaven), saying its 
unfairly refused to provide a buy to let mortgage when their bridging loan expired.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a £410,300 bridging loan with Masthaven in July 2018. They were 
going to buy and restore/refurbish a property near their home, and intended to sell the 
refurbished property once work was completed. The estimated end value of the property was 
to be around £695,000. The loan was to run for 12 months. Interest on the loan cost about 
£49,000.
In June 2019 Mr and Mrs P applied to move the bridging loan on to a buy to let (BTL) 
mortgage. The work theyd originally intended to do hadnt been fully completed by this point 
 and the revalued property was now worth less then theyd originally borrowed. So their 
BTL application failed, despite an appeal from Mr and Mrs P. In September, Masthaven 
agreed to extend the bridging loan for another year so Mr and Mrs P could carry out the work 
required to bring the property up to the valuation (£695,000) theyd initially anticipated. 
In June 2020 Masthaven agreed in principle to a BTL mortgage  this was subject to a 
valuation and other criteria being met. 
A valuation was carried out in October 2020  which was for £725,000. Thats about £30,000 
higher than Mr and Mrs P initially thought.
In November 2020, Masthaven said it wouldnt continue with the BTL offer because Mr and 
Mrs P werent able to show that they had a formal tenancy agreement (an assured shorthold 
tenancy or AST) in place, amongst other things. Masthaven said that was one of its 
published criteria for such loans.
Mr and Mrs P said this was unfair as the bridging loan they had precluded them from letting 
anyone live in the property whilst it was running. They think Masthaven has taken advantage 
of them in order to keep charging high rates of interest.
 
In October 2021 Mr and Mrs P managed to get a BTL mortgage through another lender. 
They say theyve had to borrow £20,000 more than they would have needed if Masthaven 
hadnt refused their BTL application in November 2020. They believe also that Masthaven 
took advantage of delays in the process  which they say were Masthavens fault  to 
continue to charge interest. Masthaven did acknowledge there had been some delays and 
paid some compensation to make up for this. Mr and Mrs P want Masthaven to cap their 
debt at the amount owing in November 2020.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Masthaven about how it had behaved, but Masthaven 
continues to ask them to repay the full amount  which means that, although theyve paid off 
the majority of the bridging loan and interest they still owe tens of thousands of pounds in 
unpaid interest. This remaining money is secured by a legal charge over their home, rather 
than the developed property. 
Our investigator didnt think she could recommend that this complaint be upheld. She 
checked that Masthaven had complied with its own policies about having tenancy 
agreements in place before offering BTL mortgages, and that this information was available 
to Mr and Mrs Ps financial intermediary during the application process. And she noted that 
Masthaven wasnt under any obligation to offer an alternate financing package once the 
bridging loan expired, and that Mr and Mrs P hadnt sold the property as they said they 
would.
Mr and Mrs P dont think this is fair. They say the requirement for a tenancy agreement is 
ridiculous and they could never have marketed the property for rental as Masthaven could 
have refused the BTL mortgage and left them with frustrated potential tenants.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be upsetting for Mr and Mrs P, 
especially as Masthaven seem to be progressing towards repossessing their home unless 
they repay the money it says they owe. Ill explain how Ive reached my decision.
I need also to say that this decision isnt about anything Masthaven has done since it 
decided it didnt want to offer Mr and Mrs P a BTL mortgage. So it isnt about any actions its 
taken to recover any outstanding money: if Mr and Mrs P are unhappy about these actions 
then theyd need to raise a new complaint with Masthaven. Nor is it about anything the 
financial intermediary did or didnt do, as the complaint is only about Masthaven.
I think it might be useful to comment on some of the terms and conditions of the bridging 
loan that are pertinent to this complaint.
The bridging loan was to be repaid from the proceeds of selling the property being 
developed. This was meant to be within 12 months of the loan being drawn. I understand Mr 
and Mrs P  no doubt for good reason  didnt develop all the property in the first year as 
theyd planned. That meant when the property was re-valued in 2019 it wasnt worth enough 
to repay the loan. But it does mean they breached the terms and conditions as they couldnt 
comply with the sale clause. 
Mr and Mrs P and Masthaven agreed that theyd extend the loan for another 12 months so 
the more extensive work could be carried out. Again, repayment was to be from the sale of 
the property. Mr and Mrs P say Masthaven encouraged this. I dont know if it did or not, but it 
would seem to be a reasonable approach as it had the potential to maximise the value of the 
property and allow considerable leeway between what Mr and Mrs P would owe and what 
the property would eventually be worth. Thats been borne out by a valuation in October 
2020 of £725,000. Of course extending the loan would cost a lot in interest, as thats a 
characteristic of such loans  but Mr and Mrs P dont seem to have complained about that.
Problems only really arose when Mr and Mrs P applied for a BTL mortgage in June 2020 
rather than selling the property and repaying the bridging loan. I accept that there was a 
delay between the BTL application being started and Masthaven eventually declining the 
application  it took about 5 months in all. I do have to take into account though, that during 
this time Masthaven was asking Mr and Mrs P to respond to queries about their application 
that werent just about the property and any tenants. Masthaven also told all of its clients during this period that there were delays because of the volume of work it was doing. But it 
has acknowledged it could have done some things more quickly and offered £150 to make 
up for this. That seems reasonable to me, given that not all the delays appear to be of 
Masthavens making.
Mr and Mrs P think Masthaven was taking advantage of them to charge more interest  but I 
havent seen anything that suggests Masthaven delayed things deliberately in order to do 
this.
I can also see that Masthaven declined the BTL application not only because of the lack of a 
formal tenancy agreement but also because of other aspects of Mr and Mrs Ps financial 
arrangements and their decision to move from selling the property to renting it out. Mr and 
Mrs Ps main concern is around the tenancy agreement  but its clear from Masthavens 
final response letter to them that this wasnt the only issue. 
Mr and Mrs P initially said they couldnt have arranged a formal tenancy because they were 
prohibited from having anyone live in the property whilst the bridging loan was outstanding. 
The paperwork Ive seen doesnt say this  instead it says Masthaven would need to give 
permission. Mr and Mrs P have recently acknowledged this  but say Masthaven didnt give 
them permission. I havent seen anything from either party that suggests this was requested 
by Mr and Mrs P  so I cant say Masthaven was at fault here. 
Mr and Mrs P also say that even with permission they couldnt have marketed the property 
for rent if Masthaven could still withdraw its offer of a mortgage. Im afraid I dont accept that 
argument, as its apparent Mr and Mrs P could have had a tenant in situ even if the bridging 
loan continued.
Our investigator pointed out that the criteria for BTL mortgages  including the need for a 
formal tenancy agreement  was available to their financial intermediary. Mr and Mrs P say 
that doesnt excuse Masthaven implementing such a ridiculous condition. But Masthaven is 
allowed to set its own commercial criteria, as every lender does, and it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to challenge that. I can only say if I think it followed its procedures 
correctly and made all the information available. Im satisfied all the information was 
available to the intermediary and Masthaven acted in line with its procedures.  
Mr and Mrs P also say they could have found a mortgage elsewhere  and eventually thats 
what they did. But they say they didnt want to do that because they had an existing 
relationship with Masthaven. Im afraid that was Mr and Mrs Ps choice, and doesnt affect 
this decision.  
Finally Mr and Mrs P say they werent required to use a financial intermediary to get the 
bridging loan but did have to use one for the BTL application. I dont think this affects this 
decision. My understanding is that all of Masthavens products are only available through 
intermediaries. But whether thats the case or not Mr and Mrs P did use an intermediary 
when they applied for both the bridging loan and the BTL mortgage. And  as I said before, 
this decision is only about whether Masthaven acted in line with its policies  its not about 
anything the intermediary did or didnt do.
Taking everything into account, Im not going to uphold this complaint as I think Masthaven 
has acted fairly, and has offered a reasonable amount of compensation for any delays.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I leave it with Mr and Mrs P whether to 
accept the £150 compensation if that hasnt already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman