DRN-2727127
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Integrity IFA Ltd provided unsuitable advice to switch the funds 
she held in a personal pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in 
high-risk illiquid assets.
What happened
Mrs M was introduced to Integrity IFA Ltd in 2014 to review her existing pension 
arrangements. Mrs M says she was looking for growth but had a low attitude to risk (ATR) 
as she was relying on this pension to top up her work and state pension. Mrs M was 52 at 
the time and says she wanted to retire in around six years.
Mrs M says she was advised to switch her personal pension to a SIPP and set up a monthly 
contribution of £103. In December 2014, £57,409.39 was transferred to the new SIPP and 
shortly afterwards the following unregulated investments were made:
ABC Bond - £10,000
Residential Regeneration Ltd Bond - £10,000
Of the remaining funds, £8,000 was invested in a general investment account (GIA) to be 
managed by a discretionary fund manager (DFM). A further £24,000 was invested in a 
managed portfolio. The remaining sum was left in cash to cover fees. Integrity IFA took a fee 
of £1,820 for the advice and Mrs M agreed to pay an ongoing advice fee of 0.5% of the fund 
value.
In February 2020 Mrs M complained to Integrity IFA that some of her investments were 
illiquid and she couldnt withdraw her funds. Integrity IFA didnt respond so the complaint 
was referred to our service. 
Our investigator asked for Integrity IFAs file but no response was received. Mrs Ms 
representative sent us the information it had requested from the SIPP provider, which 
included information about her previous pension, the application documentation for the new 
SIPP and some information about the investments made.
Based on the limited information provided, the investigator upheld the complaint. He thought 
the SIPP wasnt suitable for Mrs M as it was a more expensive arrangement and it wouldve 
required her to take more risk with her funds than she was able to tolerate. The investigator 
thought Mrs Ms ATR was most likely low, and the investments recommended were far too 
high risk for her. He recommended Mrs M should be compensated by comparing her 
position now to that of a benchmark in keeping with her ATR. He also thought Integrity IFA 
should pay her £350 for the trouble and upset caused.
Mrs M accepted the investigators view but Integrity IFA didnt respond. So, the matter was 
referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, Im upholding it for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
Integrity IFA hasnt responded to any correspondence sent to it by Mrs M, her representative 
or our service. According to Companies House, Integrity IFA is still trading and as per the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register, it is still regulated.
An investigator made contact with Integrity IFA by phone, and was advised to correspond 
with a specific email address, which we have forwarded our correspondence to, as well as 
other known email addresses. So, there is no reasonable explanation as to why Integrity IFA 
has not responded to our requests for information or the investigators view on the case. 
Integrity IFA has had numerous opportunities to respond to the investigators view, which 
was first sent in March 2021. For this reason, I am proceeding with my final decision on the 
complaint.
At the time of the advice, the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) in the FCAs 
handbook, set out the rules regulated businesses had to follow. COBS 9.2.1R required 
Integrity IFA to take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation was 
suitable for Mrs M. It had to obtain information as to Mrs Ms knowledge and experience 
(relevant to the specific type of designated investment), her financial situation and 
investment objectives. COBS 9.2.2R required Integrity IFA to gather sufficient information 
from Mrs M to ensure the recommendation met her objectives, that she could bear the risks 
involved and that she had the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks 
involved in the transaction. And under COBS 2.1.1R Integrity IFA had to act, honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client."
I have considered the available documentation, most of which was sent by the SIPP 
provider, and taken Mrs Ms recollections into account to reach my outcome on this 
complaint.
Based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs M was advised by Integrity IFA to switch her existing 
pension to a SIPP. I say this because the SIPP application form states that Integrity IFA had 
given Mrs M advice in relation to the SIPP. The adviser signed a statement in the application 
form confirming that hed:
undertaken an analysis of Mrs Ms circumstances and attitude to risk;
provided Mrs M with a written report setting out his advice in full; and
discussed his recommendations with Mrs M and had received her agreement to 
proceed.
The SIPP illustration shows the adviser firm as Integrity IFA and Mrs M paid Integrity IFA 
£1,820 for the advice. She also agreed to pay a fee for ongoing advice. So, I think its clear 
advice was provided here.
Mrs M says that Integrity IFA also advised her on the investments to be held in the SIPP. 
I havent seen a copy of the written report produced by the adviser when giving the advice, 
so I cant say with certainty whether or not he did in fact advise on the investments. But 
ultimately I dont think that matters because at the time of the advice, the regulator had made 
its view clear that in order to provide suitable advice on pension transfers or switches, an adviser needed to consider the suitability of the underlying investments to be held in the new 
arrangement. The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
If you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated 
items, you cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
This is further demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in April 2014 (before the advice 
was given to Mrs M) in which it stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
I acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance or rules in the 
sense that such requirements are specified by the regulator in its Handbook. Nonetheless, 
I regard it as a relevant consideration when determining this complaint by reference to what 
is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. So, even though 
I havent seen evidence explicitly confirming that the Integrity IFA adviser gave advice on the 
underlying investments, I think this shouldve formed part of the overall advice given to 
Mrs M in order for him to provide a suitable recommendation.
The Integrity IFA adviser sent a letter to the SIPP provider on 28 November 2014 enclosing 
the SIPP application form and other documentation. He also listed what Mrs M would be 
investing in and how much, which included the ABC Bond and Residential Regeneration 
Bond. This was repeated in an email to the SIPP provider on 29 December 2014, where he 
amended the amounts to be invested. The adviser also sent an application for the GIA to be 
held in the SIPP, which showed the adviser firm as Integrity IFA. The adviser sent 
instructions for £8,000 to be invested in the GIA, with a further £24,000 to be invested in the 
managed portfolio. So, it is clear the adviser knew how Mrs Ms funds would be invested 
before the SIPP was established in December 2014 and so he shouldve taken a view on 
whether each of the investments were suitable for Mrs M.
I havent been provided with a copy of the fact-find that wouldve been completed by the 
adviser. So, there is very little for me to go on from the time of the advice to determine 
Mrs Ms exact circumstances, apart from what was recorded in the SIPP documentation. 
This shows Mrs M was aged 52 and intended to retire at 58. She was married and employed. Mrs M has told us she had a low ATR and no investment experience. She said 
the personal pension she was advised to switch contained a few different pensions that 
shed consolidated earlier. And although she had another pension, she would be reliant on 
the funds in her personal pension for her retirement  as evidenced by the financial strain 
she is now under, as a result of not being able to access these funds.
I havent seen a copy of the ATR assessment carried out by the adviser. Mrs M has told us 
she had a low ATR at the time of the advice. Her personal pension was previously invested 
in a UK fixed-interest bond, property and a balanced fund. She doesnt appear to have had 
any savings and only one other pension. Mrs M also intended to retire in six years time. So 
overall, I think she had a low capacity for loss. And with this in mind, I think she probably had 
a low-medium ATR at the time of the advice.
Based on Mrs Ms circumstances and her ATR, I dont think the recommendation to switch 
Mrs Ms existing pension to a SIPP was suitable for her, and it wasnt in her best interest. 
Firstly, establishing the SIPP involved significant costs  £990 plus ongoing scheme fees of 
£600 per year. Mrs M also paid £1,820 to Integrity IFA for the advice, and fees of around 
£300 each year for ongoing advice. Furthermore, the use of a DFM meant that additional 
fees were being paid for managing this portion of Mrs Ms funds  adding to the costs 
further. This is compared with the previous scheme which had an annual management 
charge of 1% and no adviser fees.
So, it is clear the new arrangement would cost Mrs M substantially more than her previous 
pension plan. And that meant she wouldve needed to take significantly more risk with her 
funds in order for her pension to grow in excess of the charges deducted. As Ive said above, 
I dont think Mrs M wanted to or could afford to take much more than a small risk with her 
pension funds, so I dont think the advice to switch to the SIPP was suitable for her based on 
the costs involved alone.
I also dont think the investments recommended were suitable. Mrs M was most likely a low-
medium risk investor with little investment experience, she also had a relatively small 
pension pot. Around £24,000 was invested in a portfolio which contained a number of mini-
bonds. Mini-bonds are generally considered to be high-risk, as they have significant liquidity 
issues and are highly speculative investments. I dont think this portfolio was suitable for 
Mrs M because she had a much lower ATR and had no experience of such investments.
Mrs M also invested £10,000 each in the ABC Bond and Residential Regeneration Bond. 
Both of the bonds were unregulated, high-risk investments that were wholly unsuitable for 
Mrs M. She didnt have the necessary knowledge or experience to understand the risks 
involved in such investments and the adviser ought to have made it clear that they were not 
suitable for her.
Around £8,000 was invested in a GIA and was managed by a DFM. The use of a DFM is 
usually reserved for experienced investors who require access to a wider range of 
investments and want their funds to be actively managed. It also involves extra dealing 
costs. I dont think Mrs M was a suitable candidate for this arrangement because she had no 
need for this degree of management of her pension funds.
Ultimately I dont think Mrs M should have been advised to switch her existing personal 
pension to a SIPP and invest in the way she did. If Mrs M was looking for better growth, 
I think the adviser ought to have instead explored a fund switch. This wouldve kept the costs 
much lower and achieved her objective of obtaining better growth in line with her ATR.
If suitable advice had been provided by Integrity IFA, that is to stay in her existing pension 
plan and switch funds, Im satisfied that Mrs M wouldve followed it. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that Mrs M had already decided to invest in the aforementioned 
bonds or portfolios and wouldve gone against professional advice. Mrs M had very limited 
investment experience and she insists that she did not want to take unnecessary risks with 
her pension funds. So, if it had been made clear to her that the SIPP and investments 
werent suitable for her and proceeding would not be in her best interest, I think she would 
have listened to this advice. It follows that I think Integrity IFA should put the matter right.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mrs M should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mrs M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should Integrity IFA do?
To compensate Mrs M fairly, Integrity IFA must:
Compare the performance of Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Integrity IFA should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Integrity IFA should pay into Mrs M's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Integrity IFA is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs M's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age. 
Mrs M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs M would have 
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
Pay to Mrs M £350 for the trouble and upset caused by the unsuitable pensions 
advice, which has resulted in her being unable to access her funds at retirement.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Integrity IFA deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mrs M how much has been taken off. Integrity IFA should give Mrs M a 
tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
SIPP mixedfor half the 
investment: FTSE 
UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return Index; 
for the other half: 
average rate from 
fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple per year 
from date of decision 
to date of settlement 
(if compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the business 
being notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
As Ive said, my aim is to return Mrs M to the position she would have been in but for the 
actions of Integrity IFA. This is complicated where some of the investments are illiquid 
(meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. 
That appears to be the case here.
So, to determine the actual value, Integrity IFA should agree an amount with the SIPP 
provider as a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and 
take ownership of the illiquid investments. If Integrity IFA is unable to buy the investment, it 
should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the 
SIPP used in the calculations should include anything Integrity IFA has paid into the SIPP 
and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Integrity IFA may ask Mrs M to provide an undertaking to account to it for 
the net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking 
should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Integrity IFA  will 
need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Integrity IFA asks Mrs M to provide 
an undertaking, payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of 
that undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Integrity IFA 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept it if Integrity IFA totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mrs M wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs M into that position. It does not mean that 
Mrs M would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs M could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude.
SIPP Fees
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Integrity IFA taking over the investment, or 
this is something that Mrs M can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But I dont know 
how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Integrity IFA pays Mrs M an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Integrity IFA Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Integrity IFA Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Mrs M in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman