DRN-4020779
The complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt upheld a claim he made for a refund under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
In April 2017, Mr O purchased a computer using his HSBC credit card from abroad. He was 
charged £1,531.96. In April 2020, Mr O discovered a problem with the computer screen. He 
contacted the manufacturer to resolve the issue. The manufacturer had issued a statement 
previously to confirm that some computers of the same model as the one Mr O had 
purchased had a manufacturing defect which caused a problem with the screen. The 
manufacturer was offering a free replacement for affected models if the fault was identified 
within three years of purchase.
By the time Mr O contacted the manufacturer he was just outside of the three year window. 
The manufacturer said it would agree to replace the computer with a refurbished model, but 
as it had been more than three years Mr O would have to pay £569 to accept the 
replacement. Mr O didnt think this was fair so approached HSBC for help with obtaining a 
refund for the faulty computer.
HSBC took a long time to respond to Mr Os claim, but it eventually declined it stating that it 
needed Mr O to provide an independent report confirming the fault with the screen was due 
to a manufacturing defect. Mr O complained about the time it had taken to get a response to 
his claim and the outcome of that claim. He said hed already provided evidence that the 
fault was a manufacturing defect.
HSBC paid him £100 compensation for the delays in dealing with his claim. However, it 
didnt uphold his complaint about the outcome of his claim. It said that Mr O hadnt provided 
sufficient evidence to demonstrate his computer had a manufacturing defect.
I sent Mr O and HSBC my provisional decision on 16 February 2023. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
The effect of section 75 is that if Mr O has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against the supplier of goods he purchased, he can bring a like 
claim against HSBC who supplied him with the credit to make that purchase. This is 
provided that certain other conditions are met. For completeness, Im satisfied those 
conditions are met here.
It isnt in dispute that the manufacturer has accepted that the specific model of 
computer Mr O purchased was in some instances built with a manufacturing defect 
which affects the screen. The manufacturer has also confirmed that where this fault 
exists, it isnt possible to fix it, which is why it was offering affected consumers a 
replacement. This replacement would be free if the fault was reported within three 
years of purchase, or if later, a payment would be required to receive a replacement.
HSBC says Mr O needs to do more to demonstrate there has been a breach of 
contract by the supplier (who was also the manufacturer), in relation to his specific 
computer. I disagree. I think Mr O provided HSBC with sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate his computer was also affected by the manufacturing defect. Mr O sent 
HSBC emails between him and the manufacturer. I think these emails made it clear 
that the manufacturer had accepted that Mr Os computer had suffered from the 
manufacturing fault. The manufacturer said to Mr O that:
If a device with this particular issue [the manufacturing defect] is reported 
when the 3 years coverage have passed, the only solution we can offer is to 
replace the affected unit under an out of warranty exchange. Were not able 
to make an exception if this timeframe has already passed, which is the case 
of the [Mr Os specific computer].
The manufacturer said that the out of warranty exchange would cost Mr O £569. I 
think this email makes it clear that the manufacturer had accepted the Mr Os specific 
computer was affected by the manufacturing defect. However, the only reason Mr O 
was not eligible for a free exchange was because he had reported the issue more 
than three years after the date of sale.
Mr O had reported the issue a matter of weeks after the three year cut-off. So, I dont 
think there was any breach of contract by the manufacturer in the way it was 
administering the warranty. But that isnt the end of the matter. The Consumer Rights 
Act 2015 (CRA) also implies into the contract between the manufacturer and Mr O 
that the goods Mr O purchased should be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality 
includes among other things fitness for purpose, freedom from minor defects and 
durability. All of these things I think are relevant here.
The manufacturer has confirmed that the computer had a defect which was there 
from the date of manufacture. It has also confirmed that it isnt possible to fix that 
defect and the effect of it is that the computer becomes unusable. Im satisfied that 
Mr Os computer was affected by the manufacturing defect. Taking into consideration 
the price paid for the goods, their intended use and how soon the fault appeared, Im 
satisfied the computer wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I dont 
consider it to have been free from minor defects or reasonably durable. Im therefore 
satisfied there was a breach of contract for which HSBC could be held jointly liable 
under section 75.
For this reason, I dont think HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Os 
claim and complaint. Ive therefore thought about what it should do to put things right. 
The CRA sets out remedies that might be available to Mr O. Its clear a repair isnt 
possible and the manufacturer has refused to provide a replacement unless Mr O 
makes a sizeable payment towards that replacement. Mr O therefore has the right 
under the CRA to reject the goods and receive a refund of sums paid, minus a 
deduction for use. I think that would be a fair remedy here.
The computer failed three years after purchase, so Mr O did already have some use 
of it before it ceased to function as it should and I think it would be reasonable to 
make a deduction for this use. It isnt clear what a reasonable useable lifespan for a 
computer of this nature would be expected to be. However, Ive seen that the 
manufacturer would have provided firmware and driver support for a period of six 
years for the model of computer Mr O had. Looking at the specification of the 
computer, it appears to still be consistent with models available for purchase today 
(albeit at a cheaper price), so its fair to conclude the specification of Mr Os computer 
would continue to be current and usable for longer than six years.There isnt an exact formula for working out what fair redress ought to be in these 
types of scenarios. But in deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive taken into 
consideration the factors Ive mentioned above, as well as the additional fee the 
manufacturer was seeking from Mr O to provide him with a like-for-like replacement 
three years ago. Having done so, I think it would be fair and reasonable to make a 
deduction of 33% for his usage of the computer. This means I think HSBC should 
refund Mr O £1,021.41. As Mr O has been deprived of the use of that refund, it would 
be fair for HSBC to also pay an additional 8% simple interest per year on that refund 
from the date it declined his section 75 claim to the date of settlement.
Lastly, HSBC accepts it took too long to respond to Mr Os section 75 claim and it 
says it has paid him £100 compensation for the inconvenience caused. I think this is 
fair compensation for the delays that were caused.
Mr O accepted that outcome, but HSBC didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence to provide, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different outcome to the one I reached in my provisional decision. For the reasons 
I set out in my provisional decision, I think HSBC acted unfairly towards Mr O when dealing 
with his section 75 claim and complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund Mr O £1,021.41 which represents the cost of the computer minus a deduction 
for fair use.
Pay 8% simple interest per year on the above refund from the date it declined the 
section 75 claim to the date of settlement.
If it hasnt already, pay Mr O £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused in the way it dealt with his claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman