DRN-2885581
The complaint
Mr R complains that he was unable to transfer and encash his ISA investments as a result of 
a three-week HSBC UK Bank Plc transfer embargo during which the value of his funds 
declined  in February 2020.
What happened
In Mr Rs complaint, he explained that he had gone into his local branch on several 
occasions to discuss the proposed transfer and encashment of his investments but no-one 
had ever warned him about the upcoming 20-day embargo.
HSBC said that its investment division had sent him three letters explaining the proposed 
embargo, each explaining the key dates and how he could make transfers and encashments 
before and during this period (including the likely impact on time scales). It said branch staff 
who worked in its normal retail banking division would not have been made aware of this 
issue as it was not something they were tasked with dealing with. Customers needed to ring 
investment advisors to discuss their products etc.
An investigator at this service did not feel his complaint should be upheld. He said:
HSBC wrote to you three times, over a three-month period, in the lead up to the transfer 
detailing that you wouldnt be able to sell, buy or switch funds whilst the platform migration 
took place. If you werent happy with these arrangements, you had the option of moving or 
selling your investments beforehand.
Youve mentioned that you spend periods outside of the UK and dont think you received 
the letters. The letters were sent to the address HSBC had on file for you, which you 
confirmed to be correct during a phone call. Im aware you went into the Skegness branch 
in January 2020, so Im satisfied you were in the UK before the embargo and after the 
letters had been sent.
Im satisfied the letters were correctly addressed and Ive no evidence of something going 
wrong, I think it would be very unlikely that all three letters sent at different times wouldnt 
have arrived. You also mention during a phone call that you dont pay attention to the 
changes and you just leave the letters. Its fair to say that generally consumers ought to be 
responsible for reading any communications they receive for their accounts and 
investments.
HSBC did what we would expect them to do to notify you of the embargo on multiple 
occasions starting around three months before the embargo started. You chose not to read 
the letters. I dont consider this to be a fault of HSBC and therefore not something I can 
fairly or reasonably ask them to compensate you for.
Its unfortunate that the migration took place at the same time that the markets were 
volatile and therefore your investment went down. However, Im satisfied that one had no 
HSBC UK Bank Plceffect on the other. The previous contact from HSBC shows that the migration had been 
planned a long time in advance.
If the embargo hadnt been in place, then the normal ISA transfer rules wouldve been 
applied. For a stocks and shares ISA this means that the transfer should be completed 
within 30 calendar days. This is included in both the old Selected Investment Funds (SIF 
terms and conditions in section 24 and the new Global Investment Centre (GIC) terms 
and conditions in section 42.
The transfer forms were taken into branch on 13 February 2020. The HSBC employee 
told you the transfer would complete within a few weeks. So even with the embargo in 
place which ended on 24 February 2020 the transfer couldve still been completed within a 
few weeks as the HSBC employee indicated and within 30 calendar days as set out in the 
ISA transfer rules and the terms and conditions.
You werent happy that you couldnt set the day of sale as part of the transfer process. 
HSBC suggested that if you wanted to have control over the day of sale you could sell the 
funds held within the ISA wrappers and the proceeds would then be held in the uninvested 
cash part of the ISA. Then the uninvested cash could be transferred to your new loyalty 
cash ISA. As such you cancelled the transfer so that you could sell the funds on a date you 
selected, one the embargo was lifted.
Both the old SIF and new GIC platforms had an uninvested cash account and so this was 
an option available to you before the embargo and platform migration.
The HSBC employees answered the questions and queries you put to them during 
various phone calls. The embargo dates werent mentioned in the calls before the 
embargo started as they werent an answer to the questions put to them. During one call 
in January you asked about the changes between the SIF and GIC. But as this was in the 
context of potentially transferring funds back into HSBC in the future, I dont think its 
wrong that the HSBC employee didnt mention the embargo dates.
You told us that the embargo letters didnt have a definitive end date. HSBC did include 
information about the possible risk that the migration could take longer than planned. It 
was right to do so, to keep consumers fully informed of the potential risks to allow them to 
make an informed choice. In the end the transfer completed slightly ahead of schedule 
and trades were able to be accepted by phone on Friday 21 February 2020, although the 
online trading facility wasnt available again until Monday 24 February 2020. When you 
spoke to an HSBC employee on the Friday, he offered to place trades for you, but you 
declined.
I understand it would be worrying for you to see the value of your investment decrease. 
But a risk of any investment is that outside factors can affect them.
I dont think it would be fair for me to tell HSBC to pay you the value the investment went 
down by. Regardless of the embargo, Im satisfied that HSBC wouldve been able to 
process the transfer within the ISA transfer time limits and that it wasnt responsible for 
your investment decreasing in value. When funds are sold as part of a transfer you receive 
the value on the day they are sold, which could be any day within a 30-day window. Any 
decrease that happened after the embargo was lifted was because of market movement 
and your trading decisions. Unfortunately, around this time global markets decreased in 
value.
Mr R did not agree, and said:I do find it frankly astounding (but not necessarily surprising), that you have not found a 
single fault on the part of HSBC UK Bank Plc.
You said: "Both the old SIF and new GIC platforms had an uninvested cash account and so 
this was an option available to you before the embargo and platform migration."
I do not feel you have a proper understanding of the actual products involved and what has 
occurred here, the SIF most definitely did not have an uninvested cash account, unlike the 
GIC platform which is why HSBC incorrectly advised me to open an intermediary cash 
loyalty ISA, which served to only complicate and delay the process further, was not 
necessary and was never used.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons.
In essence, HSBC gave Mr R considerable notice about its plans to suspend migration 
requests for three weeks. The communication was clear, correctly addressed and repeated 
in three separate letters. HSBC was fully entitled to undertake actions like this in order 
modernise or update its systems, something all businesses need to do at time and invariably 
affects their service during this time.
Additionally, as the investigator explained, HSBC was still able to process Mr Rs transfer 
request within its 30-day target for such transfers so even without the migration suspension 
Mr Rs funds would unfortunately have been affected by the Covid-driven fall in investment 
values during this time. As Mr R chose not to go ahead with the transfer  for the reasons 
outlined  the question of whether HSBC would have completed the transfer within 30 days 
is unanswerable.
I also do not agree that Mr Rs recent points warrant upholding the complaint. Whether his 
existing account included a cash facility  which the evidence indicates was not the case  
does not affect the merits of his complaint. Nor do I accept that HSBCs suggestion of 
opening a Cash Loyalty ISA affected the fact that by the time Mr R provided a transfer 
application it was too late to process this before the notified migration freeze. I do not agree 
that this materially delayed the process.
In essence, Mr R was repeatedly told about the upcoming migration freeze. The fact that, as 
he admits, he did not read any of these letters is not HSBCs fault. He then chose to wait 20 
days before submitting the application; and even at that point HSBC expected to complete 
the transfer within 30 days  but Mr R chose to cancel the application.
Finally, Id like to confirm that I have read Mr Rs additional complaint points  raised in his 
initial letter to this service  and I am satisfied that the evidence does not indicate that HSBC 
did anything wrong (noting that a separate issue has already been dealt with).
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman