DRN-4431372
The complaint
Miss F is unhappy with the service she received from AXA PPP Healthcare Limited. 
What happened
Miss F had a private medical insurance policy through her employer, underwritten by AXA. 
She made a number of claims and raised complaints as a result of AXAs errors. 
AXA responded to each complaint, upheld her concerns, and offered compensation where it 
had made an error. 
Unhappy, Miss F referred her complaints to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaints but found that AXAs offers to resolve the 
complaints were reasonable overall. 
Miss F disagreed and in summary, has made the following comments:
The impact of AXAs poor service exacerbated her ill health
She has been financially affected and disadvantaged due to AXAs errors and delays 
And so the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Miss Fs complaints should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
I have carefully considered everything Miss F has said in detail. But in my decision, I 
will focus on what I consider to be key. I will summarise each of the complaints as the 
background is already well known to both parties. 
Miss F raised a number of complaints with AXA and AXA has issued separate final 
response letters for each complaint. Miss Fs complaints with final response letters 
dated November 2021 and January 2022 have been dealt with in a separate 
decision. 
Both sides accept that the following compensation payments have been made: £50 
for missing a referral for authorisation. £250 for an incorrect referral and not providing 
names of specialists. £150 for providing names of the wrong specialists and sending 
a text message to the wrong number. £350 for not accepting a referral and asking for 
a new referral unnecessarily. In total, AXA has paid Miss F £800 compensation for 
the issues which occurred between October 2022 and March 2023.
Miss F doesnt think the compensation amount offered is enough for the repeated 
errors, the delays caused to her treatments and the financial impact due to her being 
out of work whilst waiting for treatment. 
I will consider the overall impact on Miss F and consider whether the amount of 
compensation offered is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. As set out on 
our website, our compensation guidelines say awards for over £750 should be 
considered where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused substantial 
distress, upset and worry and there has been serious disruption and an impact felt 
over many months. 
Miss F raised complaints with AXA about issues she was unhappy with and AXA 
responded to each of the complaints individually and offered compensation amounts 
for each problem. Miss F has asked me to consider the overall impact on her which is 
why I have referred to the total amount above. I will now set out the factors I have 
considered for each of the complaints raised. 
In October 2022, Miss F asked for an online referral for treatment but this was 
missed by AXA. AXA accepted that this was missed due to human error and offered 
Miss F £50 compensation. I think this is reasonable as AXA authorised the treatment 
when Miss F called to chase weeks later. And so I think any impact was minimal and 
£50 is appropriate for the inconvenience and frustration Miss F would have felt in 
having to call for authorisation. 
Miss F was referred for counselling by her consultant. But AXA referred her to the 
wrong specialists which caused further distress and delays. In November 2022, AXA 
accepted that it referred Miss F to an incorrect company and should have provided 
her with details of specialists relevant to her specific need. It offered £250 
compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Miss F as a 
result of its error. I think this is a reasonable amount of compensation taking into 
account that Miss Fs treatment was delayed and she would have been frustrated at 
AXAs error. 
AXA then provided details of male specialists rather than female specialists, as 
requested. When Miss F complained about this, AXA provided further names and 
details of specialists  but some were not providing treatment at the time. AXA also 
sent a message to an incorrect phone number and Miss F feels her personal details 
were shared with a third party. In January 2023, AXA accepted that it made errors 
and had entered her phone number incorrectly. But I havent seen any evidence that 
the messages contained any personal details and the information Miss F received 
afterwards, included details of the specialists rather than anything else. So I think 
AXAs offer of £150 compensation for this issue was reasonable considering the 
matter was resolved by providing further details of specialists. I appreciate this would 
have been frustrating for Miss F but I think the compensation amount recognises this. 
And if a specialist isnt available, AXA cannot be held responsible for this. 
Additionally, AXA isnt expected to contact specialists on behalf of Miss F. 
Miss F received a referral from a psychotherapist but AXA said she needed a referral 
from a psychiatrist, which caused delays. It later concluded that the first referral 
should have been accepted. AXAs error caused a delay of around a month. But Miss 
F also had to repeat her trauma unnecessarily to a new specialist. AXA recognised 
this and offered a compensation amount of £350 in March 2023. I think this is reasonable as AXA did offer an option for Miss F to avoid seeing a new specialist but 
she declined as she didnt think the specialist would call her back. AXA cant be held 
responsible if a specialist doesnt call back. But I do think AXA recognised that its 
repeat errors in relation to specialists would cause Miss F distress and inconvenience 
and so the higher award of compensation for these problems was appropriate and 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Overall, on each occasion detailed above when Miss F has made a complaint, I am satisfied 
that AXA has responded appropriately by offering compensation and authorising treatment 
or providing the correct information. I cant direct AXA to never make mistakes due to human 
error but I do expect it to resolve matters promptly which I am satisfied it has done. 
I have considered the overall impact on Miss F but I dont think AXA are responsible for her 
financial loss as a result of time off work. She was off from work due to her ill health and I 
dont think the delays caused by AXA above are directly linked to her time off work. I am 
satisfied that the remedies provided by AXA are reasonable overall and in line with our 
guidelines and the compensation I would award. My decision is limited to the complaints and 
compensation referred to in this decision and the timeline of October 2022 to March 2023. 
So I wont be asking AXA to provide Miss F with further compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman