DRN-4097344
The complaint
Mrs V complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave her contradicting 
information about her cashback credit card. 
What happened
Mrs V asked Halifax for an explanation of how her cashback points on her credit card equate 
to actual money and she asked the call handler if there was a maximum amount of cashback 
that could be earned in a year. She says the call handler was unable to provide her with this 
information, but she said she would ring back Mrs V later that day, but Mrs V did not receive 
a call back, so she rang Halifax again a couple of days later. On this call, she says the call 
handler advised her that a point equated to a penny, there was no maximum cashback and 
she had already earned £305 cashback. Mrs V asked for this to be paid to her, and the call 
handler told her it would take 2-3 working days to be credited to her account. Mrs V also 
asked him to provide a copy of their terms and conditions. But Mrs V said she didnt receive 
the cashback or the terms and conditions.
Mrs V rang Halifax back five days later. The call handler told Mrs V that the cashback could 
not be requested as it would automatically be paid in September and the cashback was 
earned at 0.25%. Mrs V asked to make a complaint, but she experienced problems being 
connected to the complaints department which meant she had to ring Halifax back a couple 
more times. Mrs V complained to Halifax that she received a notification saying her 
cashback balance was £311.55 and she expected this to be paid to her.  
Halifax partially upheld Mrs Vs complaint. They agreed that she was given poor customer 
service on a number of occasions so they said they would credit her account with £250 for 
distress and inconvenience and £24 for call costs. Halifax said that when Mrs V complained 
to them, she asked them to provide her with cashback points accrued above the cap for the 
current year and previous years to be paid as cashback, but they were unable to do this as 
the cashback had been paid to her in accordance with the terms and conditions (a maximum 
of £190 cashback payable per year) and they sent Mrs V a copy of the terms and conditions. 
Mrs V brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator did not uphold her complaint. 
She said Halifax admitted that they made service errors when handling Mrs Vs queries, 
which they paid her £250 plus call costs to apologise for this. Our investigator said Halifax 
paid Mrs V cashback in line with the terms and conditions she agreed to, so no errors were 
made with this. Mrs V asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. She said Halifax 
are deliberately misleading her on her statements about the cashback balance and they 
send her notifications in monetary terms. And she feels it encourages further spending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the strength of feeling that Mrs V has that Halifax are misleading her with how 
they display the points on the statements they send her. While Im not persuaded that they 
are misleading her as the points are genuinely what she had accrued up to that point, I can 
understand why she may feel this way, especially as she has provided evidence from Halifax 
via a notification they sent her which says her cashback balance was £311.55.
But Id like to explain to Mrs V that it is not within this services remit to tell a business to 
make changes to their policies or procedures, such as what they should include on their 
statements and notifications including that the cashback is capped at £190 per year. It would 
be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power to instruct 
Halifax to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
But what I would expect Halifax to do is to keep to the terms and conditions that Mrs V and 
Halifax would have agreed to be bound by. Ive looked at the terms and conditions to see 
what they show about the cashback on the credit card account. These state under section 
A13 how the cashback is calculated and confirms: The maximum rebate is £190.00 in each 
year.
So I am satisfied that the terms and conditions are clear that the maximum rebate is £190 in 
each year. And that is why I cant award Mrs V the higher cashback balance for this year or 
any previous years. This is because she wasnt entitled to more than £190 regardless of 
what the notification or call handlers have told her. And as it has been reiterated to her that 
the maximum cashback is £190, a notification displaying a higher cashback amount should 
be no more than a minor frustration as she will be aware she cant earn over £190.
But I do think that Halifax have let Mrs V down on a number of occasions. They either 
werent able to answer her questions, gave her incorrect information, or they didnt deliver on 
promises they gave her such as giving her a call back or sending her a copy of the terms 
and conditions. There were also issues in connecting her with the complaints department.
This led to Mrs V having to ring Halifax on several occasions. It would have been distressing 
for her to have been told contradictory information and to not have a call back despite her 
being promised them. So Ive considered whether the compensation for what happened is 
fair. Halifax paid Mrs V £250 and £24 for phone call costs for the poor customer service they 
provided her. But Im satisfied that the compensation Halifax paid her is fair as it is within our 
established guidelines for compensation based on what happened. So it follows I dont 
require Halifax to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman