DRN-2971369
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was unaware of the high interest rate on his fixed sum loan 
agreement with Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance 
(Barclays). He would like the interest rate reduced.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for the following 
reasons:-
I have looked at the loan agreement. Mr S signed. The first page has a summary of 
the finance arrangement including the monthly repayment cost, loan interest rate and 
charges. The second page titled Your loan explained states the overall figure that 
Mr S would pay. So, I think Mr S had the information on the full cost of the loan when 
he took out the agreement.
Mr S has told us the loan is unaffordable. We have  asked  him  if he is in financial 
difficulty. And if so, can he evidence this as  he has kept up with the repayments, and 
I cant see any evidence prior to putting in his complaint to Barclays of having raised 
financial difficulties. Mr S has said he can currently afford the repayments but isnt 
sure whether he will be able to so in the future. I would suggest, if the payments do 
become difficult , he discusses this with Barclays at that point. We expect businesses 
to respond positively when consumers have financial difficulties but that doesnt 
necessarily mean reducing interest rates. Barclays  may be able to work with Mr S to 
find a way to make repayments  more manageable if his income drops.
Mr S has also referred to Barclays reducing the interest rates for others. In this 
complaint I can only consider Mr Ss situation. But if Barclays has done this for some 
consumers it doesnt mean it has to do so for Mr S since his circumstances may not 
be the same as others 
As I havent found Barclays to be at fault, I cant reasonably ask it to review Mr Ss 
interest rate in the way Mr S would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman