DRN-2015090
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC sent a new debit card to his brother who had 
been removed from the account a number of years ago. He is seeking compensation for 
what he says is a data breach.
What happened
In July 2019 Mr R requested a new debit card for an account he held in joint names with his 
father. A new card was issued but sent to his brother who had been removed from the 
account some years ago. Mr R complained to Barclays.
Barclays looked into Mr Rs complaint but didnt respond until October 2019. During this 
time, Mr Rs father sadly passed away. Barclays apologised for what it said was human error 
and offered Mr R £200 compensation. Mr R wasnt happy with this so referred the matter to 
us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He agreed that the incorrect card being 
sent to Mr Rs brother together with the delay in responding to the complaint had caused 
Mr R distress and inconvenience. He recommended Barclays pay a further £100, 
compensation making a total of £300.  
Barclays agreed to this, but Mr R didnt accept it. He responded in detail explaining how hed 
spent a lot of time and effort trying to resolve this complaint. And this had also caused his 
father distress at a time he was ill. He asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So its been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to acknowledge that Mr R clearly feels very strongly about this matter. And as 
such, he has responded to our investigators opinion in great detail. I want to reassure him 
that Ive read and considered everything that hes said. However, due to the informal nature 
of this service, I wont be responding in the detail hes submitted his complaint. Instead, Ill 
be focussing on what I consider the crux of his complaint  the incorrect debit card being 
sent out and the impact this has had. 
It isnt disputed that Barclays have made a mistake here. It sent a debit card to Mr Rs 
brother who had been removed from the account a number of years ago. I can understand 
why this would upset and worry Mr R as he felt his and his fathers personal information may 
not be secure. But I havent seen anything to suggest any other personal details were 
shared other than the debit card. And it seems to me the most likely cause of this was 
human error.
I can understand why this was concerning for Mr R at the time, and the fact that Barclays 
took a number of weeks to explain what had happened and why cant have made things 
easier. Especially as Mr R was going through a very difficult time with his father being ill. And 
I accept this mustve worried his father as well.
However, Ive seen the contact notes provided by Barclays. These show that when it did 
speak to Mr R, it explained that no personal details had gone to his brother other than the 
account numbers which he would likely have known as he had previously been a party to the 
account. And it confirmed that no PIN number had been issued for the new card and it hadnt 
been used. So it doesnt seem that this mistake has caused a financial loss to Mr R. 
I therefore need to decide whether the amount of compensation offered here is sufficient. 
Our investigator thought £300 was a fair amount, and Barclays agreed to this. Mr R was 
asked what figure he felt was fair, but he hasnt told us if he has an amount in mind.
As Ive said, this mustve been a worrying time for Mr R. Barclays shouldve given him an 
answer sooner than it did. However, my role isnt to award amounts which are intended to 
fine and punish Barclays. Instead, our awards are intended to reflect the trouble and upset 
caused by a businesss mistake. Having thought carefully I think £300 is a fair amount 
considering the circumstances here.  
Putting things right
To put things right Barclays should pay a further £100 compensation to Mr R in addition to 
the £200 I understand it has already paid. If it hasnt paid Mr R £200, then it should pay him 
the full amount of £300 if he accepts my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay a 
further £100 compensation to Mr R.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman