DRN-1834232
The complaint
Mr F complains that Vitality Health Limited has acted unfairly and unreasonably by declining 
a claim under a private medical insurance policy for his wife. He wants matters put right.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F were members of a group private health insurance policy set up by Mr F who 
signed the application form, taken out through a broker. The group had moved insurers to 
Vitality on 1 April 2019 and there was an exclusion for investigations or treatment for deep 
vein thrombosis and related conditions under the policy. The certificate of insurance also 
said while Vitality awaiting information from the previous insurer, no pre-existing conditions 
would be covered for a two year period; once received, the previous terms and any new 
terms imposed by Vitality would apply.
Vitality authorised Mrs F to see a doctor after she contacted it about her health and it was 
told that the symptoms werent similar to anything suffered before, though she mentioned 
she had worn a device to monitor her in the past. The doctor recommended a procedure was 
carried out promptly to gather more information about what was wrong. Vitality wanted more 
information to check Mrs Fs medical history but as there was little time before the procedure 
had to be carried out, it agreed to authorise it to avoid unnecessary delay and to consider if a 
claim form was needed afterwards to gather more information (which it was). Vitality paid 
£5907, including the costs of a follow up consultation.
Vitality once it had reviewed the information and claim form received after the procedure felt 
that the initial application form didnt provide the complete medical picture about Mrs F. The 
additional information included an observation by a doctor that Mrs F had previously suffered 
from arrhythmia which he thought was responsible for her symptoms, had suffered from 
heart palpitations for many years, and had heart investigations with a cardiologist in early 
2019 just before the policy started, which was the subject of a claim to the first insurer. 
It contacted Mrs F in February 2020, saying that it relied on application forms to carry out its 
assessment about what to offer to cover and on what terms, as the form itself stated. It 
thought that Mr F who signed the form ought to have known about his wifes health and 
explained if it had been given all the information from the start, it wouldve excluded claims 
by Mrs F for treatments or investigations due to palpitations, ectopic heart beats and related 
conditions. It invited Mrs F to comment.
Mr F accepted that he hadnt told Vitality about Mrs Fs previous tests or that she wore a 
monitor for 48 hours as he had a terrible memory and his wife was a separate person to him. 
Mr and Mrs F were required to pay personally the costs of the further treatment Mrs F 
needed and Vitality said it would amend the policy to add the new exclusion. The group 
arranged alternative insurance.
Mr and Mrs F complained to Vitality. It said that if it had been given all the information the 
application form asked for, the original claim wouldnt have been paid.
Mr and Mrs F complained to us. The investigators view was that Vitality wasnt at fault. He 
thought that the full medical history of Mrs F wasnt disclosed to it, which caused delays and 
allowed Vitality to take the action that it had. The investigator pointed out that Vitality had 
ended up paying for treatment that wouldnt have been covered by the policy if the correct 
information had been given and it couldve delayed the procedure while it waited for the 
information to which it was entitled. The investigator thought Vitality had acted fairly and 
reasonably throughout.
Mr and Mrs F disagreed. The broker supplied information from the time of application and 
said Mr F didnt know the details of Mrs Fs health and was being punished because Mr F 
was married to her. The broker was confident that Mr F hadnt known the full picture when 
he signed the form. Mr F added that the group wouldnt have changed insurers if Vitality had 
added new exclusions, and the previous insurer had not excluded Mrs Fs heart from cover. 
The investigator didnt change his view. More evidence was sent about the previous 
insurance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Non-disclosure
The starting point is the application form Mr F signed when applying to Vitality for private 
health insurance for the group. It says:
For the purposes of underwriting (assessing) your application, we usually rely solely on the 
information you provide on this form and also your most recent certificate of insurance. 
Please help us, therefore, by completing all of the health questions honestly and fully for 
both yourself and any other person to be covered by the plan. Failure to do so may result in 
a claim not being paid, your underwriting terms being changed, your cover being cancelled 
and / or any treatment costs already paid by us being reclaimed. 
In addition, the form expressly asked Mr F Have you or anyone else to be insured on your 
plan had consultations or treatment for any heart, cancer or psychiatric related conditions in 
the last three years?, but no information was given about Mrs Fs situation. Im satisfied that 
Vitality asked a clear question and explained why it was important, and it wasnt given the 
information it needed to assess what risk it would accept and the basis on which it would 
accept that risk, a decision insurers are entitled to make.
The broker says he believes Mr F honestly didnt know about Mrs F and her health, and that 
hes being punished for being her spouse. Im not persuaded by this argument. First, its 
relevant that Mr and Mrs F are married; its a fair and reasonable expectation for an insurer 
that a spouse would know more than an ordinary manager about health matters. And the 
form clearly required Mr F to find out the answer as to whether any member had 
consultations or treatments for a heart condition in the last three years. Only the previous 
month Mrs F had seen a cardiologist (and about a week after the form was signed asked the 
first insurer to pay for this) and Mr F admits he was aware of the monitor she wore for 48 
hours. The medical evidence shows a history of Mrs F having heart issues. If Mr F genuinely 
couldnt remember, it doesnt explain why he didnt check the position with all the members 
as the form required.The terms and conditions of the policy make it clear if members transfer from another policy 
Vitality wont cover matters previously excluded. The certificate of insurance goes on to add 
that Vitality can add new exclusions and theres no cover for pre-existing conditions for two 
years until the information from the previous insurer was received. Vitality didnt get that 
information for some time, but it set out clearly the interim position which was accepted.
The approach of this service on non-disclosure is modelled on The Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
In my view, Mr F was reckless and careless when he failed to disclose Mrs Fs recent heart 
issues. He should have known or asked Mrs F about it. Vitality has shown that if it had 
known the true position, it wouldve excluded Mrs Fs heart issues from cover (and so offered 
the cover on different terms) and it wouldnt have paid the amount it has towards her medical 
costs. Mr F says if Vitality had originally said it would add new exclusions, the group wouldnt 
have moved insurers. But its Mr Fs failure to disclose key information that meant Vitality 
didnt have all the information it needed. The question was clear and Mr F had a broker 
assisting him.
And as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, I think 
allowing Vitality to add the new exclusion produces the fair and reasonable outcome in this 
complaint.
The previous insurer
The previous insurer didnt exclude Mrs Fs heart condition. This doesnt mean other insurers 
cant form their own view about risk and create new exclusions. And given the heart claims 
from early 2019 werent made to the previous insurer until after the group applied to join 
Vitality, theres no reason why the previous insurer mightnt have reviewed the position and 
added a similar exclusion if the group had renewed with it in the future. In any event, Im not 
persuaded that any alleged delay in getting information from the previous insurer is relevant 
as it was the initial failure to disclose key information that led to Vitality wishing to add the 
exclusion later, which it was entitled to do under both the law and the terms of the policy.Rejection of the claim
Mrs Fs cover excluded claims relating to pre-existing conditions for two years while Vitality 
awaited information from the previous insurer; once received, Vitality was able to add the 
new exclusion. Mr and Mrs F were warned that if they proceeded with the private treatment, 
it was at their own risk as the claim had not been accepted. 
The private treatment was related to Mrs Fs heart, and she had seen a consultant about it 
about a year earlier. This is within the two year exclusion period. And in any event, once 
Vitality had been told the correct situation about Mrs Fs medical history, Ive already found 
that it was fair and reasonable for it to exclude such claims on an ongoing basis.
Mr F complains about the time taken by Vitality to investigate. But I dont think it has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably. It accepted Mrs Fs assurance that the symptoms were new 
(though the history shows she had blacked out before) and ended up paying for treatment it 
wasnt required to pay for in order to avoid delay while it waited to receive medical evidence. 
This is more than fair and reasonable. If Vitality had been given the information it shouldve 
been given in the application stage, it wouldve been able to deal with the matter much 
sooner.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 
11 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman