DRN-3483180
The complaint
Ms A complains about the cash settlement amount offered by Aviva Insurance Limited 
following a claim against her plumbing, drainage, and water supply pipe policy. 
What happened
Ms A had a leak on her water supply pipe which was shared with two neighbours. She says 
she contacted Aviva to make a claim, but because the neighbours werent insured with 
Aviva, she was told to get the repairs done privately and send the invoice to Aviva for 
reimbursement of a third of the costs  which represented her share of the pipe she was 
responsible for. 
Ms A had the work done and sent the invoice to Aviva, the amount was for £1,032.58, which 
was for her share of the total cost. Aviva considered this, but only reimbursed Ms A £412.02 
which they say was how much it would have cost them to pay their own engineers to carry 
out the work. 
Ms A wasnt happy and complained. She says she was told by Aviva that they would cover 
her costs for the repairs, but they failed to reimburse the full amount she incurred. 
Aviva responded to the complaint maintaining their position. They referred to the policy 
terms but apologised if an agent had provided incorrect information regarding the level of 
cover. Ms A therefore approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and initially recommended Aviva pays Ms A 
£100 compensation for misinforming her. She, however, later changed her view and felt 
Aviva treated Ms A fairly. Ms A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide, and the 
case was passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision on 10 May 2022 which set out the following: 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
My starting point here is the policy terms which say Ms A is covered for the water supply 
pipe, an engineer will attend, locate the leak, and repair or replace the affected section of the 
pipe. The policy goes on to say there is a £4,000 claim limit and states: 
m) costs which exceed the fair share of the cost of any work undertaken by us under 
the terms of your policy on a water supply pipe outside the boundary of your property 
where you share legal responsibility for the water with any third party(ies). The fair 
share will be calculated as the total cost of the work divided by the number of parties 
(including you) that are responsible for the water supply pipe and benefit from the 
repair. 
When Ms A says she contacted Aviva to report the issue, she says she was informed that 
Aviva would not carry out the repair work as the neighbours werent insured with them. I 
cannot see anywhere in the policy that confirms this. In any event, Ms A had the work 
completed privately and anticipated Aviva would reimburse a third of the total costs for the 
repair as she says she was told this, and the policy confirms this, cited above. 
Ive gone on to consider the work that was carried out by the private engineer. Ms A says 
she was told by the engineer it would be more cost-effective to carry out the work in the way 
they did and would mitigate potential further issues from occurring later down the line. 
The private engineer carried out a part relay of the water service pipe from the boundary of 
the alleyway, connecting to the external stop taps in the garden to resolve the water leak. 
And within this, the costs shown were for Ms As share of the costs only. 
It appears the engineer carried out the work as they deemed most appropriate based on 
their expertise to repair the leak that was occurring, in the most cost-effective way. And its 
clear the amount shown to carry out a repair was within the policy limit applicable here. 
Aviva didnt attend as the policy suggests they could do to assess the problem. I note Aviva 
says their cash settlement reflected what it would cost them to have gone out and do the 
work, but I dont think thats fair in this case. I say this because Ms A wasnt given the 
opportunity or, most likely, information on the limitation of cover, to do anything differently. 
The policy says, under section titled Examples of claims covered, that a repair to a leaking 
and/ or blocked water supply pipe is covered. The works carried out appear to have been 
completed to carry out a repair, that doesnt exceed the fair share of costs Ms A was 
responsible for, or the claim limit. I also think there is an argument that had Aviva attended, a 
decision could have been taken to conduct the repairs in the way the private engineer 
deemed appropriate in their professional opinion  particularly given the costs Aviva were 
liable for fell within the policy limit, and its accepted it was a valid claim. 
Further, a note dated 14 May 2021 within Avivas claim file says Ms A didnt contact Aviva 
and therefore didnt receive authorisation to use her own engineer. As such it says Aviva 
could only reimburse what they would pay their own engineers. Aviva says they dont have 
any call records on file to determine what was said when Ms A contacted them about the 
claim, or the advice given. 
Im more persuaded by Ms As testimony that she did call and was most likely informed to 
appoint her own engineer to carry out repairs. I say this because Ms A then followed up with 
an invoice for the works completed, showing only her share of the costs, which I find would 
be unlikely for a policyholder to do unless instructed to do so when making a claim. 
Based on what Ive set out above, I currently intend on requiring Aviva to reimburse the 
remaining amount Ms A paid to repair the leaking water supply pipe which represents her 
share of the repair costs. 
I also think the claim could have been handled better. I say this because I dont think Ms As 
expectations were reasonably managed. Ms A raised a claim and was most likely told 
(based on her testimony) to appoint a private engineer and she would receive her portion of 
the costs back. This didnt happen, Ms A was left with no option other than to appoint her 
own engineer and has been left out of pocket as a result. There was also some 
miscommunication regarding what Ms A was covered for. For example, she was informed 
she wasnt covered for a water supply pipe, but then Aviva go on to confirm the claim limit. I 
think these examples, along with only reimbursing a portion of Ms As repair costs, would 
have caused her to experience a level of distress and inconvenience  over and above 
whats naturally expected following a claim. So, I also currently intend on directing Aviva to pay Ms A £100 compensation in respect of 
this. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I currently intend to direct Aviva Insurance 
Limited to do the following: 
Reimburse the remaining amount Ms A incurred to have repairs completed to repair 
the water supply pipe  which represents her share under the policy; and 
Pay her £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Ms A accepted my provisional decision, but Aviva didnt. 
Aviva says theres no evidence to show Ms A contacted them prior to having the work 
completed. They also say had their engineers attended, they would have only repaired the 
section of the damaged pipe and would not have replaced it. And in any event, the policy 
doesnt respond where costs are requested to be paid for work that wasnt authorised first.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Aviva says there is a lack of supporting evidence to show Ms A contacted 
them prior to carrying out the work, I remain more persuaded by Ms As testimony and the 
actions she carried out during the claim. Ill explain why. 
This is a finely balanced case. Ms A says she was told Aviva would not carry out the work 
given the water supply pipe was shared with neighbours who werent insured with them. As 
such, she says she was told to carry out the repairs privately and return an invoice showing 
her share of the costs. These are the steps Ms A took, and I find it unlikely a policyholder 
would follow this process without being instructed to do so. 
I say this because Ms A had a valid claim. Ive no reason to doubt Ms As testimony and 
cannot see any other reason why she would do something differently  over requesting 
Aviva to attend  based on all the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ms A only provided her share of the repair costs which is highlighted by the independent 
engineer. Again, Ms A says this is what she was instructed to do and it seems unlikely for a 
policyholder to do this without prior conversations, particularly given its been said the 
neighbours who also were responsible for the water supply pipe werent insured with Aviva. 
Ive also thought about what Aviva say their engineers would have done had they attended. 
The crux of the matter in my view is Aviva would have been required to carry out a repair  
whether that be repairing or replacing the affected part of the pipe. Ill now revert back to the 
independent engineers invoice which says they carried out a part relay of the water service 
pipe from the boundary of the alleyway, connecting to the external stop taps in the garden to 
resolve the water leak. Im aware of what a home emergency policy is designed to do. While I take Avivas points 
about the independent engineer carrying out the work in a cost-effective way to prevent 
further issues, the report within the invoice cited above, is clear the engineer carried out 
work they deemed appropriate  in their professional opinion  to resolve the leak. And as 
mentioned within my provisional decision, the costs shown do not exceed Ms As fair share 
of the total costs, or the policy limit. 
Having considered all the evidence available to me, I place weight on Ms As testimony, for 
the reasons Ive mentioned above. On balance, I find it more likely than not Ms A acted 
during the claim on instruction, and in any event, I find her actions were reasonable. So, Ill 
be directing Aviva to reimburse the remaining amount she paid to complete the repair. 
My decision remains unchanged regarding the way things were handled, for the reasons I 
set out within my provisional decision. So, Ill also be directing Aviva to pay Ms A £100 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
Putting things right
Aviva Insurance Limited must now reimburse the remaining amount Ms A paid that reflects 
her share of the water supply pipe repair and pay her £100 compensation for any distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold it. I now require Aviva Insurance Limited to put things 
right as set out under the heading Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman