DRN-4379077
The complaint
Mr P complains about IG Markets Limited, referred to as IG or the business. 
In summary, he complains that IG shouldnt have allowed him to buy American Depository 
Receipts (ADRs) in Sea Limited within his ISA. He says that when IG informed him of the 
ISA ineligibility, he was left with limited options and was forced to crystalise a loss.   
To put things right, hed like his ISA allowance reinstated and compensation paid for 
financial loss. 
What happened
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
IG concedes that Mr P shouldnt have had the opportunity to buy ADRs in Sea 
Limited within his ISA, however Mr P chose to have them transferred to his General 
Investment Account (GIA), demonstrating a wish to remain invested in that particular 
instrument. 
Mr P had the same number of shares in his GIA, as he did in his ISA, so in the future 
he could still benefit from a rise in share price. 
The above notwithstanding, when IG found out about its ineligibility, it acted promptly. 
The issue remains with the options it presented to its investors. 
oThe option to transfer the holding to the GIA required selling and 
repurchasing the holding in the non-ISA environment and this caused a 
change in Mr Ps desired holding and crystalised a loss on his position. 
Whilst Mr P wants IG to reinstate his ISA allowance taken up by the value of the 
investment in the ADRs, the investigator doesnt agree. 
Its not clear if Mr P has other ISA accounts with other providers, but hes not utilised 
his ISA allowance for 2023/24. 
This means that he can mitigate his allowance this year, albeit without the direct type 
of investment in the ADRs at the price he purchased.  
Mr P still has 75 shares in Sea Limited, and much of his loss is due to purchasing 
shares at the top of the historical market. But if the share prices increase, he will 
benefit. Because of this he cant ask IG to compensate for the crystalised loss. 
IG has however caused considerable distress and inconvenience for which it should 
pay Mr P £500 compensation. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said he remained unhappy about the following points:
IG allowed him to purchase an ineligible holding in his ISA, thus consuming a 
percentage of his ISA allowance for that year with no way of getting it back to 
reallocate to another holding. 
Having or not having used his future ISA allowances is not relevant to his matter as 
that is after the fact. He invests his ISA allowance yearly to maximise the benefit this 
structure allows. 
This ordeal has caused him great frustration. 
He doesnt accept that IG acted promptly, and it should have to change its controls 
and processes. 
He doesnt disagree that he wished to remain invested in Sea, and if advised, 
wouldve happily done so. However, having to sell or transfer (the only option 
available to him) both required him to sell at market value at the time, hence 
cyrstalising a loss.  
He was allowed to purchase ineligible shares to begin with. 
He has lost his ISA allowance to the ineligible investment.  
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold the complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im persuaded that IG acted unreasonably by 
allowing or giving Mr P the opportunity to buy ADRs in Sea Limited within his ISA. I agree 
that this shouldnt have happened. 
However, I dont think the business is responsible for the losses claimed. Based on what the 
investigator and IG say Mr P hasnt utilised his ISA allowance for 2023/24, he therefore has 
an opportunity to mitigate any allowance/loss. That notwithstanding, I still agree with the 
investigator that IG should pay Mr P £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
cased.   
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ps strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope he wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. In 
other words, I dont have to comment upon every single point made. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr P and IG, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Despite what Mr P says, I dont need 
any further evidence to make my decision.  
I uphold this complaint, in brief, for the following reasons:
Theres no dispute that IG allowed Mr P to purchase an ineligible holding in his ISA, 
and it shouldnt have. Whether or not it shouldve in the first place, isnt something I 
need to consider, as it looks like there was possibly some disagreement/confusion 
amongst ISA managers as to whether or not they could allow in their wrapper. I note 
IG states:
oOn further consultation with our trading desk, I would like to further clarify 
that we can view the stock as never being ISA eligible, and that IG had 
misclassified it based on the information available at the time.  On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what he says, Im not 
persuaded that in the circumstances IG is responsible for losses claimed. 
Despite what Mr P says, it seems that he hasnt utilised his ISA allowance, and 
therefore is in a position to be able to help himself mitigate his losses. It doesnt 
matter that its after the event so to speak but this does have an impact on what IG 
may (or may not) be obliged to do by way of redress. Im mindful that Mr P invests his 
ISA allowance to maximise the benefit that the structure allows and so this wouldnt 
be an issue for him.  
Despite what Mr P says, Im broadly satisfied that IG behaved reasonably once the 
issue came to light. I appreciate Mr P disagrees, but this doesnt mean the business 
has done anything wrong. On balance, Im satisfied it did what it reasonably could to 
assist. I note IG states:
oOnce IG became aware it was non-qualifying we notified the client of his 
options in line with HMRC guidelines and our T&Cs. We have also disclosed 
this matter to HMRC 
I appreciate what Mr P says about changes to controls and processes but thats not 
something I can comment upon. Its a matter for IG how it runs its affairs, but that 
said, IG will probably take on board his comments and observations. In any case, the 
ineligibility is principally down to HMRC rules/guidelines. 
oBased on what the business says, I understand that as this is an ADR, where 
the underlying parent company isnt listed on a HMRC recognised exchange, 
it shouldnt be held within an ISA.  
I appreciate what Mr P says about having to sell his holdings. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think that was an unreasonable approach given the limited 
options available. 
I note IG states:
oIG offers a flexible stocks and shares ISA, this allows you to withdraw some 
of the money invested in your ISA and reinvest it at a later date within the 
same tax year. Any funds withdrawn can be replenished in addition to the 
£20k allowance. In order to maintain the subscription the shares must be sold 
first and the proceeds are then transferred out to buy the shares back in the 
general investment account (GIA).  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to safely say that Mr P 
suffered the losses claimed. Based on the investigators analysis which I dont 
disagree with, I note the following:
oIn September 2021, Mr P purchased the ADRs at the top historical market 
price. 
oWhen Mr P was given the option to sell or transfer, and he chose (of his own 
volition) the option to transfer. I note IG gave Mr P 30 days notice in 
accordance with IGs terms and conditions to decide what to do. 
oThis inevitably required a sale of his holding, as an in-specie transfer (from 
his ISA to GIA) wasnt available. Its arguable that this demonstrated Mr Ps 
wish/willingness to maintain his investment. 
I note IG says that if it was to move shares without crystalising, 
investors would lose out on the flexible allowance as that relates 
purely to cash, not to stocks moved out. 
oAfter the transfer in September 2022, his holdings remained at 75 shares  in 
other words the net result of the transfer was 75 shares  and, although the 
loss was crystalized at that point, any future recovery in share price will 
inevitably be to his benefit. I note theres nothing to suggest that this wouldnt 
happen thereby placing him as close to the position he should have been in 
as is possible.
I appreciate that this whole episode has caused Mr P (through no fault of his own) a 
considerable amount of distress and inconvenience. Afterall, IG allowed Mr P to purchase an instrument that was ISA ineligible. Thats why I think in this instance 
£500 compensation as suggested by the investigator (for distress and inconvenience 
caused) and agreed by the business is broadly fair and reasonable.  
I appreciate that Mr P will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as 
the investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, I cant safely say that IG is responsible for the losses claimed.  
In other words, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, I cant give him what 
he wants. 
Putting things right
IG Markets Limited should pay Mr P £500 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
IG Markets Limited should pay Mr P compensation, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman