DRN-4436573
The complaint
Mr F has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ)) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act).
What happened
Mr F bought solar panels and a boiler for his home in 2018. The purchase was funded by a 
loan from Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for acts and omissions of the supplier 
under the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr F alleges that the supplier misled him into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, primarily through feed-in tariff (FIT) 
payments. 
Mr Fs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He thought that the documents 
from the time of sale (which Mr F signed) made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel 
system would not be immediately self-funding. So, our investigator did not think a 
misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr F disagreed. He said that he had relied on what he had been told by the sales 
representative  that the solar panels would be self-funding, primarily through the FIT 
payments. He said the discrepancy between what he had received, and the amounts shown 
on the sales documents, was notable and raised questions about the accuracy of the initial 
estimates  implying a degree of misrepresentation. He also said that his electricity bills not 
reducing over time was a concern relating to the performance of the solar panels. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 75 and section 56 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers when they purchase goods or services using credit. 
As Mr F paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr F could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken this into account when deciding whether Ikanos 
response to Mr Fs claim was fair and reasonable.
Section 56 says that any negotiations between Mr F and the supplier are deemed to have 
been conducted by supplier as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by our investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr F was provided with the sales documents, as he sent copies to us. It 
seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has also signed them. It 
also seems likely that the information on those documents wouldve been discussed with 
him. 
The sales documents include the contract, solar quotation, estimated benefits sheet and 
credit agreement. These documents are fairly straightforward. I think Mr F wouldve 
understood what he had agreed to pay for the system  not only the basic price, but also the 
total payable under the loan agreement and the monthly payments hed agreed to pay. 
The estimated benefits clearly show that Mr F could potentially obtain an estimated benefit 
from the solar panels of £405.55 in the first year after installation. Given the monthly loan 
repayments were £93.45, which equates to £1,121.40 per year, I think it is unlikely that the 
sales representative wouldve said the loan repayments would be covered by the benefits of 
the system to make it self-funding on a monthly basis or in the first year.
The sales representative may have said the system would be self-funding overall. But I dont 
think that wouldve been a misrepresentation. Solar panels are generally expected to last for 
25 years, FIT payments would be made for 20 years, and the unit rate increases annually 
with RPI inflation. So, the FIT payments over that period would often exceed what was paid 
for a solar panel system. And the boiler would also likely have led to some savings on Mr Fs 
gas bills. 
I appreciate Mr Fs concern that his electricity bills have not reduced since installation. But I 
think it is likely he has made savings. Electricity bills would not necessarily reduce compared 
to how much they were before, since electricity prices generally will increase over time. So, 
you could end up paying more even though you are using less electricity. The savings from a 
solar panel system will be in comparison to how much Mr Fs electricity bills wouldve been if 
the solar panels had not been installed. Naturally this is hard to quantify. 
Nevertheless, the estimated benefits shown on the sales documents do not appear to be 
unreasonable. They were based on industry standard calculations and showed the 
assumptions made. I would not consider estimated benefits to be a misrepresentation just 
because a customer hasnt realised those exact benefits. 
Mr Fs FIT payments were slightly below the estimate. This appears to have been because 
his solar panels generated slightly less than expected, but within expected tolerances in 
terms of the estimates made. 
The solar panels appear to be working properly, so it is likely Mr F has realised some 
savings. The savings he makes will depend on how he uses electricity in the home. And as 
Ive said above, I would not uphold a complaint simply because the estimated savings 
havent been realised when those estimates were reasonable. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Fs recollection of what he was told, I find the documents 
from the time of sale to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given. 
So, on balance, I think it is unlikely there was a misrepresentation that would enable me to 
uphold this complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman