DRN-1540574
The complaint
Mr T complains he hasnt been able to access his online banking linked to his
Lloyds Bank Plc account.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr T tried to access his online banking to check his balance, but Lloyds 
website was down. Mr T complained to Lloyds through their website and received an auto 
acknowledgment from them. Mr T said he didnt hear anything more from Lloyds, so he 
called them a few weeks later.
Lloyds advisor couldnt locate Mr Ts complaint, so they set up a new one. Mr T was 
unhappy they couldnt locate his original complaint and with the amount of time hed spent 
on the phone - and on hold. He asked for these points to be added to his complaint and 
wanted compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused.
Lloyds said an unplanned system outage occurred on the day Mr T tried to log into his online 
banking  which lasted about half an hour. But Mr T wouldve been able to check his balance 
through other channels such as telephone banking or a cashpoint.
They said the adviser couldnt locate Mr Ts complaint and when he was put on hold, they 
couldve kept him informed it was taking longer than expected to find it. Lloyds apologised 
for this. But they didnt agree the call was lengthy and as the advisor offered to text the new 
complaint reference number to Mr T, he was given an option not to stay on the phone whilst 
the new complaint was set up. As they felt the impact to Mr T had been minimal Lloyds didnt 
feel compensation was justified.
Mr T was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator recommended Mr Ts complaint not be upheld. She said Mr T was unable to 
access his online banking, but this was only on one occasion - and he had other options to 
view his balance. She also said she saw Mr T had been able to access his account online a 
few days later and although he had been inconvenienced, it was minimal. She didnt feel 
compensation was fair or reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr T disagreed. He said he spent a considerable amount of time on the phone querying why 
hed not received a response to his original complaint and should be compensated.
The complaint has now passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.Lloyds said there was an online banking outage on the day Mr T tried to check his balance. 
But this was for about 30 minutes. Mr T has said not being able to access his online banking 
was inconvenient. Ive thought about this, but he wouldve been able to access it shortly after 
 and he had other options to check his balance such as telephone banking or cash points in 
the meantime. The evidence Lloyds provided shows Mr T didnt use any of these other 
methods to check his balance at that time. If Mr T urgently needed to know his balance at 
that time, I think its likely he would have used some of the other options available to him. As 
he didnt, I not persuaded being unable to check his balance at that time was a significant 
inconvenience to him. 
Mr T said he spent a long time on the phone trying to find out why he hadnt received a 
response.  I appreciate the length of the call and the periods of holding were frustrating for 
Mr T but Ive not seen anything that persuade me he spent an excessive amount of time on 
the phone. I agree with Lloyds that the advisor couldve checked in more when he was on 
hold. But the advisor was trying to locate the complaint, and when they couldnt they set up a 
new one. The advisor said they could send the reference to Mr T once the complaint was set 
up, but Mr T didnt want to do this  so he had the option of coming off the call earlier but 
chose not to. Again if Mr T had other pressing matters to attend to, I think he would have 
taken Lloyds up on that offer. So, Im not persuaded this was a significant inconvenience to 
him.  
So although I can see there are things Lloyds couldve done better I have to consider the 
individual impact this has had on Mr T and Im not persuaded there has been enough to tell 
Lloyds to pay compensation. Mr T was unable to use his online banking for a short period 
but had other ways of checking his balance. Lloyds couldnt locate his complaint when he 
called, but they corrected this by setting up a new one. They had eight weeks to provide a 
final response to Mr Ts complaint which they did in December 2019  around 4 weeks after 
he sent his original complaint. So, I dont think Mr T was disadvantaged in any way by a new 
complaint being set up and I think Lloyds apology is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, so I wont be asking them to do anything else. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr s complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman