DRN-2449047
The complaint
Mr C complains that Creation Financial Services Limited suddenly started charging him a
monthly fee for a credit card hed had for some years. He said he hadnt been properly 
notified that this was part of his terms and conditions, so he didnt think he should pay.
What happened
Mr C said hes held a store branded credit card, issued by Creation, for a few years. In
December 2019, without warning, Creation started charging him £3 per month to hold this
card. He said Creation had told him he shouldve been charged from the outset for the card.
But he still had the leaflet that came with the card, and it made no mention of any monthly
fee. The only mention was buried in the terms and conditions. He didnt think it was fair to be
charged, based on the small print found only in the terms.
Creation said it should always have been charging him for this card. Because it had made a
mistake, it wouldnt ask him to repay now the old fees he hadnt been asked for. But going
forward, it wouldnt waive the fee.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Creation didnt
have to send Mr C a notice of variation, because he should always have been paying £3 per
month to hold this card. The terms hadnt changed, it was just that Creation had made a
mistake, and not applied the charge to Mr Cs card.
Our investigator thought it wouldve been better if Creation had told Mr C about the mistake,
not just started to take the money from him. But, although this charge wasnt mentioned in
the leaflet Mr C sent us, it was in the terms that Mr C had agreed to. So our investigator
thought that Creation hadnt done anything wrong. And it didnt have to pay back the charges 
it had applied to Mr Cs account since December 2019.
Mr C didnt agree with that. He said that terms like this should be drawn to a customers
attention, and it hadnt been. So he wanted an ombudsman to consider this complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
When this case came to me, I asked Creation for some more information. I wanted to 
know if the £3 monthly fee was brought to Mr Cs attention before he applied for the 
card. Creation sent us promotional materials from the time. Those set out that there 
were two types of store branded credit card available at the time Mr C applied. The 
ordinary card carried no fee, and paid 1% cashback. But the cashback plus credit 
card carried a £3 fee, and paid 2% cashback.
We only have the online promotional materials. But I think its likely that any other
promotional materials were in very similar terms.
Im satisfied that the promotional material Ive seen was clear about the fee which 
applied to this card. So I do think this was brought to Mr Cs attention before he 
applied. I dont think that the requirement to pay £3 per month was only found in the 
small print of some terms that Mr C was sent after his application. And, for that 
reason, I dont think its unreasonable or unfair of Creation to apply this term now.
Like our investigator, I do think it wouldve been better if Creation had written to Mr C 
and told him about the fee, rather than just started charging. But I dont think this was 
a contractual variation, for the reasons Ive explained. So I dont think Creation was 
obliged to do that. I think this is a lapse in service, rather than a breach of regulatory 
requirements. But I also note that Mr C has benefitted from 2% cashback for some 
years, without paying the fee for that. And Creation has waived the previous three 
years of fees on this card. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. I wont ask it to do any more.
I know Mr C will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Creation said it had nothing to add. Mr C replied to object.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C said that he didnt understand why the fee was hidden in the small print. He thought 
that consumer law decreed that any onerous terms had to be clearly brought to the
consumer's attention.
I reached my decision on this case on the basis of the promotional materials which Creation 
sent us, from the time. Those are very clear that there is an annual fee for the card Mr C 
took. The advertisement offers two cashback cards, theyre both summarised next to each 
other, on the same page. 
There are three bull points for the ordinary credit card, which say -
1% cashback on all [supermarket] spend
0.5% cashback on all other purchases
No annual fee
And right next to that, is the information for the card Mr C took out, which also has three bull 
points. Those say  
2% cashback on all [supermarket] spend
1% cashback on all other purchases
Just £3 a month
So Im satisfied that this term was brought to Mr Cs attention before he took out this card. 
The requirement to pay a monthly fee was also included in the terms of the card, as I would 
expect, but that wasnt the only place it could be found.
For that reason, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman