DRN-2275601
The complaint
Ms B complains that, in 2009, The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a 
packaged bank account (PBA).
What happened
Ms B had had a bank account with RBS since at least 2002. This was a fee-free account. In 
2009 she agreed to switch to a Royalties Gold PBA, and she only returned to a fee-free 
account in 2019. 
In 2009, the Royalties Gold cost £12.95 each month. In return it came with several benefits, 
including worldwide family travel insurance, car breakdown cover, mobile phone cover, 
£15,000 accidental death insurance, card protection, extended warranty, ID theft protection, 
home emergency service, and entertainment booking discounts.  Also, the first £250 of any 
arranged overdraft would be interest free; and I can see, from its brochure at the time, that 
the account also offered what it described as tailored interest rates for overdrafts over 
£250, loans and credit cards. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Ms B didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms B says she was persuaded to take the account because she was told shed then get 
offers for such things as loans and overdrafts. But when she then applied for these, she 
was refused, due to her credit record.  
It would be very difficult for me to decide fairly that RBS misled Ms B in the way she 
remembers. I would need reasonable evidence that RBS acted wrongly in that way; and 
given that this all happened about 12 years ago, I cant see that such evidence is going to 
be available. Also, it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt remember all the detail of a 
conversation from so many years ago  so I wouldnt know how much I could rely fairly on 
everything they now remember. 
This means Im not able to uphold Ms Bs complaint on the main point she has made. So, 
Ive looked at whether the PBA generally was mis-sold  but again I cant say theres 
strong evidence that it was. Ill explain why. 
I dont think RBS recommended the PBA, in the sense banks use of saying theyve looked 
at the customers personal circumstances and are recommending the account as something 
that will meet their individual needs. Instead it was telling Ms B about the PBA and pointing 
out its advantages; but it would have been up to Ms B to decide if it fitted her needs and was 
worth the cost. 
RBS did need to give Ms B enough information on which to make that decision. And, again 
because of the passage of time, I cant be sure whether it did that  although the literature 
RBS produced at the time did set out the main features (assuming this was given to Ms B, 
which again I cant be sure). So, Ive looked at whether full information about the account is 
likely to have changed whether Ms B switched. 
I cant of course know for certain what would have affected her attitude to the account   
instead, I have to assess whats the most likely thing to have happened. But, on that basis, I 
cant see that better information is likely to have put Ms B off taking the PBA. I say this 
because there were some benefits she might have found potentially useful. 
I say this because its likely that most people would find several of the benefits useful. But 
specifically, I can see that in October 2009 she registered for payment care protection, and 
in October 2010 she used the ticket booking service for an entertainment event and received 
a substantial discount. She also at some point registered a handset under the mobile phone 
insurance. 
So, overall, I cant fairly decide that the PBA was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman