DRN-4478922
The complaint
Mr J complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance, lent 
irresponsibly when providing him with a loan.
What happened
In January 2023, Novuna loaned Mr J £25,000 over 84 months. Based on the information its 
provided, the interest rate on the loan was an annual percentage rate (APR) of 13.5%. The 
total charge for the credit was around £13,000, which meant the total amount repayable by 
Mr J for the £25,000 he was borrowing was around £38,000. The monthly repayments were 
over £450. The information Novuna recorded at the time of his application showed he had a 
net monthly income of £2,600. 
Later in 2023, Mr J complained to Novuna that it had lent irresponsibly to him and had made 
his existing debt problems worse. 
Novuna responded that it wasnt upholding Mr Js complaint. Novuna said the loan 
application was reviewed against its lending criteria and information provided by credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) and accepted based on the information provided.
Unhappy with Novunas response, Mr J complained to this service. Our investigator looked 
into the complaint and recommended that it should be upheld. The investigator thought that 
Novuna hadnt carried out the checks it should have done prior to making the lending 
decision. They felt that, if Novuna had, it would have discovered that Mr J wasnt in the 
financial position to sustainably afford the loan payments. The investigator asked Novuna to 
put things right for Mr J in line with our general approach to such cases. 
Novuna didnt agree with the investigators assessment, so the complaint was referred to me 
to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website  including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this in deciding Mr Js complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Novuna treated Mr J 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the loan. These include:
1) Did Novuna complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at that time? 
3) Ultimately, did Novuna make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did Novuna act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Novuna complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J would 
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules that Novuna had to follow required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess whether Mr J could afford to repay the loan being offered. This is often 
referred to as an affordability assessment. 
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks Novuna needed to carry out, but they did set out 
that those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think 
what this meant in practice was that the scope and extent of Novunas checks needed to 
reflect the nature of the lending, bearing in mind things such as the amount of credit, the 
interest rate, the duration of the loan, the monthly and total amount repayable, and any 
indications of customer vulnerability.  
The checks Novuna needed to carry out as part of its affordability assessment had to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying the loan back would cause Mr J any difficulties or have any adverse consequences 
for him. They would also need to take account of factors such as the amount of money being 
lent, the term of the loan and the monthly repayments, total charge for the credit and the 
interest rate being charged. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
And, as a result of the above, I think reasonable and proportionate checks needed to be 
more thorough if, for example, Mr J was on a low income. This would reflect that it could be 
more difficult for him to meet the monthly repayments on such an income. 
Novuna would also need to be more thorough the higher the amounts he had to repay, as it 
would be more difficult to make higher repayments depending on his income. 
With these principles in mind, Ive thought about whether Novuna completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr J would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way.
In summary then, the circumstances of the loan application included the following:
Mr J applied for the loan which had an APR of 13.5%.
Mr J was recorded by Novuna as having a net monthly income of £2,600.
The term of the loan was 84 months. 
It seems Novuna did request some information in relation to the loan. This included asking 
Mr J for details of his monthly income. Novuna also obtained information from a CRA to 
gauge his expenditure and to assess how he was managing his existing credit. 
The CRA checks revealed that Mr J had £1,200 of active credit and was making regular 
repayments of £37. It attributed mortgage costs to Mr J of £859.50 a month based on him 
declaring he was married. Mr J wasnt showing as being in arrears or subject to any 
arrangements or county court judgments (CCJs). The checks indicated to Novuna that he 
wasnt experiencing over-indebtedness in terms of total levels of unsecured debt.
I recognise that there were no apparent or immediate causes for concern regarding Mr Js 
financial situation in any of the information Novuna had gathered in January 2023. But Im mindful that Mr J had applied to take on a significant level of debt with Novuna and over a 
long period of time. In total, he stood to pay many thousands of pounds in interest alone 
during the term. 
So, there ought to have been at least some cause for concern that I think should have 
prompted Novuna to look more closely at Mr Js financial situation before deciding whether 
to provide the loan. Novuna doesnt appear to have carried out borrower focussed checks as 
Id have expected it to, given the nature of the borrowing. And, as a result, more checks 
should have been carried out to ensure Mr J be able to sustainably repay the loan.   
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at that time?
I believe it would have been reasonable and proportionate for Novuna to, for example, have 
requested and reviewed copy bank statements to help better determine how Mr J was 
managing his finances before making its decision. 
On reviewing Mr Js account statements in the months prior to January 2023, I think sight of 
them would have brought to light clear indicators that he was experiencing more financial 
difficulty than Novunas initial checks suggested. For instance, his net monthly income was 
on average a few hundred pounds lower  although admittedly not markedly so  than 
Novuna based its decision on. He was contributing £1,700 a month to some, though not all, 
household costs.
In addition to that, Mr Js bank account was almost continuously in overdraft, and by several 
hundreds of pounds, suggesting his financial position was more strained than Novuna first 
believed. This resulted in Mr J regularly incurring overdraft fees and interest charges that 
wouldnt otherwise have been added. So, it seemed Mr J was struggling to manage his day-
to-day finances even before he took out the long-term loan with Novuna. 
Did Novuna make a fair lending decision?  
In addition to the information Novuna held, theres the information I believe it ought to have 
obtained in carrying out the relevant borrower focussed affordability checks. This information 
showed the loan left Mr J with little remaining of his disposable monthly income. That at a 
time when Mr J was already showing signs of difficulty in managing to balance his income 
and expenditure on a day-to-day basis.  
The lending Novuna offered to Mr J represented a significant financial responsibility. 
Namely, the requirement that he pay as much as around £450 a month for as long as 84 
months. While incurring around £13,000 in interest charges.
The information indicates to me that Mr J was struggling financially before January 2023 and 
continued to do so after that point. I also think, based on the information Novuna should 
have gathered about Mr J, that it was unlikely hed be able to sustainably afford to make the 
monthly payments for the new loan. 
So, based on the information Novuna had and ought to have obtained about Mr J, Im not 
satisfied that it could have reasonably concluded that hed be able to sustainably afford to 
make the monthly payments for the loan. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I think that, in the circumstances of Mr Js case, Novuna 
should have realised it was unlikely hed have been able to repay the loan, and that it wasnt 
appropriate to lend to him.Did Novuna act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some other way? 
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything to 
suggest that Novuna acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr J in some other way.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr J to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But hes paid interest and charges on the loan 
that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, I think Mr Js lost out and that Novuna should 
put things right for him. Novuna should: 
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. Any 
payments made by Mr J should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Mr Js made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him with 8% simple 
annual interest calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they were paid 
by Mr J, to the date the complaints settled. 
b) If theres still an outstanding balance on the loan, then Novuna should agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr J, bearing in mind the need to treat him positively 
and sympathetically in those discussions, and take account of his current ability to 
repay the loan.
c) Remove any relevant adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file as a result of 
the lending. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Novuna to take off tax from this interest. Novuna must 
give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require Mitsubishi HC Capital 
UK Plc, trading as Novuna Personal Finance, to put things right for Mr J as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman