DRN-2141855
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has dealt 
with a claim they made under their home insurance policy following an escape of water.
Mr G has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill refer to him only.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2017 Mr G made a claim after an escape of water caused damage to his property. RSA 
accepted the claim was covered and agreed to carry out the repairs. It also arranged for 
Mr G and his family to move into alternative accommodation during those repairs.
Mr G made a complaint about the way the claim had been handled. That was considered by 
another ombudsman and a final decision about that complaint has been made. Three further 
complaint points arose and its only those Im considering in this decision. They are:
Delays caused by the electrical work;
Returning home from alternative accommodation before the repairs were complete;
Damage to contents held in storage by RSA.
Ill consider each point separately.
Electrical work
The ombudsman who looked at the first complaint found RSA should pay for additional 
electrical work and plastering in the kitchen. The ombudsman considered this work should 
have formed part of the work RSA carried out in order to ensure a lasting and effective 
repair.
RSA has now accepted that the way it dealt with the electrical and plastering work caused 
avoidable delays to the repairs. As a result, Mr G had to arrange for this work to be done 
himself. And it took longer overall for the repairs to be completed than it should have done.
That meant Mr G and his family were without a fully usable kitchen for longer than they 
should have been. Because of this, Im satisfied Mr G was caused unnecessary trouble and 
upset. It also led to other problems, which Ill deal with in the next section.
Alternative accommodation
With around a month of the planned alternative accommodation due to end, Mr G told RSA 
he was concerned the work wouldnt be completed before he and his family returned.
Initially RSA didnt agree to an extension. It later did, but only very shortly before the 
alternative accommodation was due to end  and by which time Mr G and his family had 
already made arrangements to move home.
RSA seems to have accepted it should have dealt with this differently. If the electrical and 
plastering work had been carried out without a delay, the kitchen may have been repaired by 
the time Mr G and his family returned. Or if RSA had recognised there was going to be a 
delay, it may have been able to extend alternative accommodation much sooner. Because 
neither of these things happened, Mr G had little option but to move home  to a kitchen that 
wasnt fully repaired and couldnt be fully used.
RSA paid Mr G £510. This was based on £30 per day for the 17 days he was back at home 
before the electrical work was complete. This was intended to cover the increased cost and 
disturbance of eating at home without a fully usable kitchen.
When Mr G returned home, I understand RSA didnt return all of his furniture. He says it took 
around two weeks for that to arrive, which made day to day living difficult during that time. 
And it was a further 15 days until the plastering work was complete and the kitchen was fully 
usable again.
I think it would be fair to extend the £30 daily payment throughout this 15 day period to 
reflect the time Mr G was unable to use the kitchen as a result of the way RSA handled the 
alternative accommodation and repairs. Im persuaded his additional costs and disturbance 
would have continued during that time. That means RSA should pay an additional £450.
Damage to contents
RSA has already accepted its contractor had damaged or lost some of Mr Gs items in 
storage and has paid for them to be replaced. The amount paid isnt in dispute. Mr Gs 
complaint is that this problem caused him and his family more distress. I agree.
It would have been upsetting for Mr G to see his property damaged by the escape of water 
and distressing to have to move out whilst work was carried out. RSA wasnt responsible for 
this. But it was responsible for putting things right promptly and with a minimum of trouble 
and upset. Taking some of Mr Gs contents into storage to facilitate repairs was a 
reasonable step. Ordinarily Id expect all the items to be returned in a similar condition to 
when they were taken and at a suitable time. This didnt happen.
Some of the items werent returned and some were returned damaged. Im satisfied this 
caused Mr G unnecessary trouble and upset.
Putting things right
Taking into account my findings above, Im satisfied £500 compensation is reasonable for 
the trouble and upset caused. Mr G has questioned whether this is a fair reflection of the 
distress he and his family were caused. The amount of compensation Im awarding for this 
complaint is solely for the three points discussed above. The previous complaint considered 
other points and made a separate compensation award. Overall, for the three points above, I 
consider £500 to be a fair level of compensation in the circumstances.
Im satisfied an additional £450 is reasonable for the extra costs and disturbance likely 
incurred until the kitchen was fully repaired. That means RSA should pay a total of £950 to 
put things right.
  
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay £950.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 May 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman