DRN-1716923
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc temporarily held back a payment he made from his 
account while it verified that the transaction was genuine.
What happened
On 18 November 2019 Mr R called HSBC to make a payment of £3,380 from his account. 
Mr R has said that the payment was to purchase a vehicle and was to someone that he 
hadnt paid money to previously.
The money debited Mr Rs account, but the recipient said that it had not been received. A 
couple of hours later, on the same day, Mr R called HSBC to find out what had happened. 
When speaking to HSBC it came to light that the payment had been held by HSBC for 
further verification. Mr R was transferred to the relevant department for the verification to be 
completed. The payment was then released, and Mr R says the recipient confirmed it had 
been received. This all happened on the same day.
Mr R complained to HSBC about the payment being stopped and that it hadnt contacted him 
to verify the transaction. 
HSBC said it hadnt made an error by holding the payment for checking as it did this to 
protect it and Mr R against potential fraud. It acknowledged however that it hadnt attempted 
to call Mr R when it should have  and offer him £25 for the upset this caused.
Unhappy with HSBCs response Mr R asked our service to look into the complaint. An 
investigator considered everything but felt that HSBC hadnt acted unfairly by carrying out 
additional verification on the transaction. And she felt that, while a mistake had been made 
around the call back, as there had been no financial loss the offer made by HSBC was fair.
Mr R disagreed. He said he felt hed been discriminated against by HSBC and the offer 
didnt cover the stress hed been caused not knowing where the funds had gone for several 
hours. As Mr R didn't agree with the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 
 
Regarding HSBCs decision to withhold the payment pending further verification, I dont think 
it has acted unreasonably. Businesses have the right to determine their own internal 
processes using their commercial discretion. Our service is not a regulator, so it is not our 
role to interfere with or tell a business that it must alter its processes. HSBC has said that 
this transaction was temporarily held to ensure that it was genuine and to protect Mr R from potential fraud. It is common industry practice for businesses to have measures like this in 
place. So, I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly by implementing these additional checks.
Mr R has said that this is not the first time this has happened, and he feels discriminated 
against. Ive seen nothing to support his argument that these checks were implemented for 
any reason other than to ensure the transaction was genuine.
Fraud prevention procedures and what triggers a review are by necessity confidential. I dont 
think its unreasonable, if a business has concerns about whether an individual transaction is 
genuine, that it follows its procedures - even if a different transaction on the same account 
has previously been through the same process and been confirmed as genuine. So, while I 
understand why Mr R finds it frustrating that he has had similar issues in the past, I still dont 
think that means HSBC has made an error here in temporarily stopping the transaction in 
question. 
HSBC has acknowledged that it didnt call Mr R to verify the transaction and that this was an 
error  as it usually would do so. So, what is left for me to decide is whether the offer of £25 
made by HSBC is a fair way to address this error, or if it needs to do more.
The role of our service is to consider complaints informally. We do not fine or punish 
businesses for errors made, rather we decide what we think is the fair and reasonable way 
to resolve things. 
Mr R has said that not knowing where the money had gone  as it had debited his account 
but the recipient had said they hadnt received it  caused him a lot of distress. And I can 
certainly understand that this would be upsetting. And I think some of this upset wouldve 
been avoided had HSBC called him to verify the transaction. But at the same time Im 
conscious that the issue was resolved within a matter of hours. And I also havent seen 
anything to suggest that Mr R has incurred a loss as a result of this. So overall, while I dont 
doubt that this was upsetting for Mr R, I think the offer of £25 made by HSBC is fair, so I 
cant reasonably require it to do more and I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc has already made an offer to pay £25 to settle the complaint which I 
think is a fair way to resolve matters.
So, my decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mr R the 
£25 it previously offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman