DRN-4013181
The complaint
Mrs F complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) caused damaged to her cars 
paintwork during a repair, following a claim she made under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs Fs car was struck from the rear, which caused some damage. She contacted esure and 
it arranged for the repairs. Mrs F says when the car was returned to her the passenger side 
front door was scratched with swirl marks that werent there previously. She says she didnt 
see this initially as the car was returned to her wet. Mrs F believes the damaged paintwork 
may have occurred when the repairing garage attempted to clean the car. 
esure wanted the repairing garage to have the opportunity to resolve any issues it was 
responsible for. Mrs F complained. esure responded apologising that she was unhappy with 
the standard of repairs and paid her £100 in recognition of this. In its complaint response 
esure says Mrs F had refused to allow the garage to collect her car. Mrs F says this isnt 
correct. An appointment was made but the garage subsequently told her the damage wasnt 
its fault.
esure referred the matter to its internal engineers. It was decided that the damage Mrs F had 
complained about wasnt accident related and wasnt caused by the repairing garage. So, it 
didnt agree to carry out any further repairs. Mrs F thought this was unfair and referred the 
matter to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. She says the condition 
sheet, from when the car was collected, showed it had existing scratches in the same 
location. And she didnt think the photos Mrs F supplied were clear enough to support her 
claim that the paintwork was damaged by esures garage.         
Mrs F disagreed with this outcome and asked for her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman.
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Fs complaint. Let me explain. 
I can see that Mrs F says she noticed scratches on her passenger side front door and areas 
where the paint appeared dried. This was the day after her car was returned to her by the 
repairing garage. I note her comments that she tried to raise this issue with esures garage 
without success. So, she contacted esure directly.
From the records provided, Mrs F sent photos to both the garage and esure. The garage 
initially agreed to collect Mrs Fs car. But on review of the photos decided the damaged 
paintwork wasnt its responsibility. 
Ive examined the photos Mrs F has provided from before and after he car was repaired. Ive 
also looked carefully at the photos esure provided that were taken at its garage. 
From the photos Mrs F has supplied, which she has labelled as before the damage 
occurred, I cant clearly see the condition of the passenger side of the car. The car has 
condensation covering most of the wing. This photo appears to have been taken in bright 
sunlight causing some reflections on the image. Its not possible to say with any certainty if 
scratches were present or not from this. 
Ive also looked carefully at the photo Mrs F provided showing the damage after she 
received the car back. This shows dulled and lightly scratched areas of paintwork above the 
door handle and along the underside of the window. 
The garage has sent photos taken prior to the repair work, which was carried out to the rear 
of Mrs Fs car. This shows a clearer image of the car. I can see an area of dull paintwork 
under the passenger side front window as well areas where the door is scratched. 
From looking at these images the condition of the paintwork was already deteriorated in the 
areas now complained about before repairs were carried out. 
Mrs F has since sent further photos and diagrams showing scratches on her car. I 
acknowledge her comments that she relies on the help of others and so the delay in 
providing this information couldnt be avoided. Ive examined this information in detail along 
with the other photos and evidence provided.    
Ive read the form that was completed when Mrs Fs car was collected. This includes a 
diagram of a car with scratches denoted in the area Mrs F has since highlighted as damaged 
by the garage. I can see that Mrs F signed this form indicating the information recorded on it 
was correct. 
Ive read the internal email exchange esure had with its engineer. This says Mrs F has 
complained about dull/damaged paintwork. It says the garage has captured this [with 
reference to the photos taken] prior to completing any work. The engineer says the damage 
looks age related and consistent with general wear. The email says its also likely to be due 
to previous repair work during the cars life. The engineer refers to the rest of the car also 
being in quite poor condition and says there are no grounds to uphold the complaint. 
Having considered all of this Im not persuaded that Mrs F has shown the paintwork was 
damaged by esures garage. I think it acted reasonably in referring the matter to an engineer 
to consider. But I dont think its decision was unfair, based on the evidence Ive seen. esure 
has paid Mrs F £100 because she was unhappy with the standard of repairs. However, I can 
see that this was agreed before its engineer had looked at the images of the paintwork. 
I note Mrs Fs comments that she was told the garage was liable for the damage, also that 
its expected to take a video of the car prior to collection. But I cant see that this is the case 
from the information provided.       
In summary, I dont think esure has treated Mrs F unfairly here. So, I cant reasonably ask it 
to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman