DRN-2898062
The complaint
Ms W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) wont give her historical 
statements in digital format.
What happened
Ms W complained to Capital One about its refusal (or inability) to give her historical 
statements in digital format.
Capital One responded to Ms Ws complaint and explained that it was simply unable, at the 
present time at least, to give her historical statements in digital format.
Unhappy with Capital Ones response, Ms W referred her complaint to our service for 
investigation.
Ms Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt 
be upheld. In summary she said:
Its unfortunate that Capital One is unable to give historical statements in digital 
format, but this isnt something we can compel it to do, or something that it would be 
fair or reasonable for us to compel it to do.
Ms W was offered the option of historical statements by post, so she wasnt deprived 
access to the information she was seeking, just access to the information in her 
preferred format.
If Ms W believes there has been a breach of General Data Protection Regulation 
(GDPR) by Capital One, then this is something she would need to take up with the 
Information Commissioners Office (ICO) rather than our service.
Capital One appears to have responded to Ms Ws request (and then her complaint) 
in a timely manner.
Ms W didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to 
what has already been said.
First, I would like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ms W says the investigator incorrectly summarised her complaint. But even if I was to agree 
with Ms W on this point, I dont think its material. In other words, whatever format Ms W 
asked for her historical statements to be given to her, Capital One is unable at the present 
time to do this and this isnt something we have the power to compel it to do. 
I would also add that Capital One isnt refusing to send Ms W the information she wants, just 
that its unable to send it in the format she wants.
Turning to the other two issues, I can confirm that I agree with the investigator if that Ms W 
believes that Capital One has breached GDPR then this is something she needs to take up 
with the ICO and not our service. And having considered everything that has passed 
between Ms W and Capital One on this matter, Im satisfied that Capital One has always 
responded to Ms Ws concerns in a timely manner.
I appreciate that Ms W will be disappointed but taking everything into account Im not 
persuaded that Capital One has done anything wrong in this case.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman