DRN-2039096
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that ERGO Reiseversicherung AG declined a claim they made 
on their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs E took out a travel insurance policy, via a price comparison website, shortly 
before going on holiday. 
They were on a cruise when Mrs E required urgent medical treatment for a cardiac condition. 
She was admitted to hospital and underwent surgery. 
During the course of the claim ERGO received information about Mrs Es previous medical 
history. ERGO say that Mrs E deliberately failed to disclose her medical conditions and that, 
had she done so, they wouldnt have offered her a policy. However, they did pay over 
$15 000 to repatriate Mrs E as a gesture of goodwill. Mr and Mrs E are being pursued for a 
large bill from the cruise company where she received medical treatment. Mr and Mrs E 
want ERGO to settle the claim in full. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She was satisfied that Mrs E had made a 
careless misrepresentation and, that had she declared all of her medical conditions, ERGO 
wouldnt have offered her a policy. So, she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs E didnt agree. They said a lot of the conditions stemmed from Mrs Es diabetes 
and so they didnt realise they had to list each and every one. And they said that when they 
tried to get a quote from ERGO, with all the conditions listed, they were able to find one. 
Our investigator looked into this further. ERGO explained that their underwriting criteria had 
changed since Mr and Mrs E took out the policy which explained why they were able to get a 
quote. 
Mr and Mrs E asked an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERGO says Mr and Mrs E incorrectly answered medical questions which they were asked
when they bought their policy. This means the law set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosures and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think its fair and
reasonable to apply these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es claim.
CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate remedy if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered when deciding whether a
consumer has taken reasonable care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were. 
Mr and Mrs E were presented with a medical disclaimer during the application process which 
they had to accept before answering questions. The disclaimer said: 
For each traveller named on this policy please select Yes if they:
(a) Have, in the last two years, suffered from any medical or psychological conditions 
for which theyve received treatment, been prescribed medication, or attended 
any consultations, investigations, or check-ups
(b) Have ever suffered from for received treatment, investigations or test for: 
Heart attack, angina, chest pain (s) or any other heart condition 
High blood pressure, blood clots, raised cholesterol, aneurysm or any 
circulatory disease
Any form of stroke, transient ischemic attack (mini-stroke) or brain 
haemorrhage 
Mr and Mrs E were then asked: 
Does Mrs E have any pre-existing medical condition?
In deciding whether I think Mr and Mrs E took reasonable care in answering these questions, 
Ive reviewed the medical records and Ive also considered what Mr E has told us about 
Mrs Es medical history. 
Mr and Mrs E declared that Mrs E had suffered a heart attack, had a coronary angioplasty 
and diabetes. ERGO says, in response to these questions, Mr and Mrs E should have told 
them about a number of medical conditions including a nephrectomy, renal cell carcinoma 
and foot ulcers. She also had high blood pressure. 
Mrs E had a complex medical history and I can understand why she may have considered 
some of her conditions to be linked to her underlying health condition of diabetes. But, for 
example, shed had treatment for cancer in 2017 and didnt declare it. And shed also had a 
lot of treatment for foot ulcers. Given the complexity of her medical history I dont think it was 
unreasonable for ERGO to conclude Mr and Mrs E should have disclosed information about 
these conditions when answering the question Ive set out above. Therefore, I think Mr and 
Mrs E did make a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. 
As Mr and Mrs E made a qualifying misrepresentation, ERGO is entitled to apply the 
relevant remedy available to it under CIDRA. This says that, in cases of careless 
misrepresentation, if the insurer wouldnt have entered into the contract of insurance they 
are entitled to cancel the policy and refund the premiums.
 ERGO has provided extensive information showing that if even some of the missing 
conditions werent declared they wouldnt have been able to offer Mr and Mrs E a policy. 
Although Mr E has, much more recently, obtained a quote for cover ERGO has explained 
thats because their underwriting criteria had changed. 
So, taking into account all of the above information, I dont think ERGO would have offered 
Mr and Mrs E a policy and they dont need to proportionately settle Mr and Mrs Es claim.  
And, in the circumstances of this case, I dont think it is fair and reasonable for the premiums 
to be refunded to Mr and Mrs E. Thats because ERGO paid over $15 000 to repatriate Mrs E which they arent seeking to cover which is considerably more than the premium Mr and 
Mrs E paid. So, I think its fair that ERGO retains the premium in the circumstances of this 
case.
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman