DRN-2662695
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited didnt treat her fairly when her 
mortgage fell into arrears. She asks that it changes the date a default was recorded on her 
credit file. 
What happened
Mrs S and her ex-partner took out a joint mortgage in 2012. The mortgage was taken out 
with a different lender and transferred to Kensington in 2016. The mortgage fell into arrears, 
and Kensington took possession of the property in late 2017. Mrs S and her partner had 
separated in 2015.
Mrs S says Kensington should have recorded a default marker on her credit file in 2015, 
when the mortgage was in several months of arrears, rather than when it took possession. 
She said Kensington hadnt taken her difficult circumstances into account. 
Our investigator said it was fair for Kensington to apply the default when it took possession 
of the property. It had correctly reported arrears before this. Our investigator said Mrs S 
didnt meet Kensingtons criteria to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage account. 
Kensington wasnt aware of Mrs Ss difficult situation until November 2017  by which time 
there were considerable arrears and it was about to take possession. Kensington accepted 
an offer from Mrs S and wrote off the shortfall debt. The investigator said it hadnt acted 
unfairly. 
Mrs S didnt agree. She said the mortgage was assessed on her income alone, so 
Kensington should have agreed to remove her ex-partner from the account. She said she 
had funds available and offered to clear the arrears if this happened. 
Mrs S said she had many distressing calls with Kensington and it was aware of her 
circumstances. She didnt understand why this wasnt recorded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has described what happened here and Im very sorry for the circumstances shes 
described. I wont set them out here, but I have taken what Mrs S has said into account. 
Should Kensington have removed Mrs Ss ex-partner from the mortgage account?
Mrs S and her ex-partner separated in 2015. The mortgage fell into arrears and the lender 
started recovery action. A court hearing was adjourned in April 2016 to give Mrs S time to 
submit a request to remove her ex-partner from the mortgage. She said a family member 
had offered to pay the arrears but only if her ex-partner was removed from the account.
At that time the mortgage was with the previous lender and its policy was that it required 12 
months consecutive payments as evidence of affordability before transferring an account 
into a sole name. However, notes on the account say that due to the situation it would look 
into Mrs Ss request. The lender declined the transfer into Mrs Ss name, saying this was 
due to arrears. 
The mortgage was then transferred to Kensington. It seems Kensington wasnt able to 
consider a transfer of the account into Mrs Ss sole name for some months after the transfer. 
I dont think though that the outcome here would have been different if it had. Kensington 
says its policy was the same as the previous lenders. Its likely it would also have declined 
the transfer.
Mrs S says the mortgage would have been affordable for her. She says when she took out 
the mortgage with her ex-partner, it was assessed on the basis of her income alone. 
I dont think its reasonable to say this means the lender shouldnt check if Mrs Ss 
circumstances had changed, and whether the mortgage would be affordable in her sole 
name. In fact, the lenders notes say Mrs S told it shed been studying and had changed 
jobs. Shed told Kensington in 2015 that she couldnt afford the mortgage payments. And of 
course mortgage payments were not being made. 
I dont think, based on the available evidence, that I can reasonably find that the lender 
should have waived its usual policy and allowed the transfer into Mrs Ss sole name when 
the evidence it had suggested this wasnt affordable. I dont think its clear that at this time 
the lender was aware of Mrs Ss difficult situation. So I cant fairly find that it made an error 
by not taking this into account. 
Did Kensington take Mrs Ss circumstances into account?
Mrs S says Kensington was aware throughout of her difficult circumstances. Ive looked 
through notes made by Kensington and the previous lender to see what was recorded. The 
notes say Mrs S told the lender of a sensitive issue in early 2016. She didnt give consent for 
this to be logged, so I dont know what was discussed  and nor would anyone at 
Kensington who later reviewed the account. The note says the lender suggested Mrs S take 
advice. 
In March 2017 Mrs S told Kensington she wouldnt attend a court hearing as she was afraid 
of her ex-partner. In November 2017 she gave Kensington more information about this. 
Based on the available evidence, I think its unlikely Kensington was aware of Mrs Ss 
circumstances before March 2017. 
Mrs S says Kensington had a duty not to place her in a situation where she was at risk, or its 
actions could be detrimental. And it should have worked with her to avoid repossession. 
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think theres anything that Kensington did that put Mrs S at 
risk. Mrs S wasnt living at the property when she told Kensington about her situation. 
Kensington didnt pass details of her whereabouts to her ex-partner. 
Im not sure what Kensington could reasonably have done differently in 2017 to support 
Mrs S. She wasnt living at the property. She couldnt or didnt want to make mortgage 
payments. She said she wanted the property to be sold, and shed previously marketed it for 
sale for a period. Shed discussed an assisted voluntary sale with Kensington, and during 
2017 she told it she wanted it to take possession. Taking possession should be a last resort, when all other reasonable attempts to resolve the 
position have failed. I dont think it was unfair for Kensington to take possession in late 2017. 
The mortgage was in arrears, and from what Mrs S has said this wasnt a situation she could 
sort out with her ex-partner. In late 2017 Mrs S said she was seeking an order for sale, 
however it wasnt certain shed get this or by when. And shed then need to sell the property. 
After the property was sold in May 2018, there was a shortfall debt to pay. Mrs S offered to 
pay £2,000 to settle the debt. This meant Kensington writing off about £25,000, which it 
agreed to do. I think Kensington was entitled to consider whether to try to recover more of 
the debt before deciding whether to accept Mrs Ss offer. I dont think there were any undue 
delays in Kensington agreeing to Mrs Ss settlement offer and I dont think its unfair that 
Mrs Ss credit file shows the account being closed in August 2018.
The date the default was recorded
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issued principles for the reporting of arrears to 
credit reference agencies. This requires lenders to report data that is fair, accurate, 
consistent, complete and up to date. Lenders have to report missed payments and arrears. 
ICO says the purpose of reporting arrears is to indicate at the earliest opportunity that a 
customer is showing signs of potential financial difficulty. 
While defaults might be recorded when there are three months of arrears for some debts, 
this isnt the case for secured debts (such as mortgages). ICO says the circumstances which 
can lead to the recording of a default on a secured loan include the property being taken into 
possession.
Kensington reported arrears on Mrs Ss credit files, and in 2017 it recorded a default. Mrs S 
says it should have recorded the default earlier, when the account was in three or six months 
of arrears. The default will be on her credit file for six years, so recording it at an early date 
means her credit file will improve sooner. 
While the mortgage account was in arrears for some time, there was contact between 
Kensington and Mrs S. Payments were made to the account, although not consistently. 
From late 2015 to March 2016 Mrs S was marketing the property for sale at an amount in 
excess of the mortgage loan. In April 2016 Mrs S said she could clear the arrears if her ex-
partner was taken off the mortgage account, and said she could afford monthly payments. 
Shortly before Kensington took possession Mrs S said she was looking into getting a court 
order to sell the property even if her ex-partner didnt consent to the sale. 
Kensington recorded a default when it took possession of the property. I dont think its fair to 
say that Kensington should have recorded a default before this, when there was still a 
possibility of finding a solution that would avoid it taking possession. I dont think the 
relationship between Kensington and Mrs S had broken down before that point, even if, 
ultimately, Mrs S didnt find a way to repay the mortgage without the security property being 
taken into possession.
I dont think it was wrong or unfair for Kensington to record the default in December 2017. 
I think the information about the arrears and default recorded on Mrs Ss credit file is 
accurate. And taking into account what ICO says about the purpose of recording this 
information, I think its fair. Mrs S was unable to meet monthly mortgage payments, for which 
she was jointly and severally responsible, and the property was taken into possession. While 
Mrs S made a payment towards the shortfall debt, most of the debt was written off. I think 
Mrs S was in financial difficulty such that she couldnt meet her debt obligations. I dont think, in the circumstances, its fair and reasonable to order Kensington to remove or change the 
information on Mrs Ss credit file. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman