DRN-3765826
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that GE Money Home Lending Limited, (GE) unfairly rejected their
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr and Mrs C are represented by firm of
solicitors, which I will refer to as S.
What happened
In April 2007 Mr and Mrs C bought a points-based timeshare from a timeshare supplier I will
call C. It cost some £!3,122 and this was funded in part by a loan taken from GE which was
paid off in November 2007.
In September 2021 S made a claim against GE on behalf of Mr and Mrs C for problems they
said they had encountered with the timeshare. S set out a list of issues which I will
summarise as follows:
The products were misrepresented.
They were led to believed they could sell the timeshare in the future, but this has not 
been possible.
They were not told about the possibility of accommodation not being available when 
they wanted.
They were not told that they had acquired a floating weeks timeshare and not a 
specified apartment.
They were not told that the agreement had been declared null and void by an EU 
Directive.
They say proper credit checks were not carried out and no proper affordability checks
were made.
GE responded to the claim but said it had been brought too late under the provisions set out
in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also said it did not consider the claims fell within the time
limits for this service to consider.
S brought a complaint to this service and argued that the timeshare was misrepresented by
C for much the same reasons they had set out in the claim to GE. S referenced legal
decisions regarding the making of loans which I will address in my findings
.
It also argued that the timeshare agreement was null and void due to the impact of an EU
Directive regarding floating weeks timeshares. S said the terms of the contract were unfair
under consumer law. It argued that this meant the loan was also null and void.
Furthermore, it said that a proper affordability assessment had not been undertaken and it 
referred to the processes of another bank, presumably in error.
It concluded there was no time limitation issue as the agreement was null and void. It said
that under s 140A Consumer Credit Act 1974 there was an unfair relationship.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but concluded that GE had acted fairly in
turning down the claim.
He thought that there were two potential claims Mr and Mrs C could have made under s.75
and s.140A CCA, but both claims had been brought too late under the provisions in the LA.
S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision which read as follows: 
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good
industry practice, when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome.
So although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every
point that has been raised.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr and Mrs C are making
to GE. I will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs C said that C misrepresented the nature of the membership to them when they
bought it. However, under s.9 LA, Mr and Mrs C had to make that claim within six years of
when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in April 2007 
because that is when they say they lost out having relied on false statement of fact.
As they first made a claim to GE in or around September 2021, that fell outside of the time
limit set out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under
s.9 LA Mr and Mrs C had to make their claim within six years of when the loan ended 
which was in November 2007. But as the claim was made in September 2021, it was made
outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the lime limits I have set out above can be
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
S argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond November
2007 and, as the loan from GE had been used to fund the timeshare purchase, time for the
purposes of the LA did not start to run until the relationship had been brought to an end.
I am satisfied s.9 LA applies to this claim, not s.8 LA, as Mr and Mrs C are making a claim
for sums recoverable by statute
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mr and
Mrs C repaid the loan in full, the agreement between him and GE ended. As it was only the
relationship between Mr and Mrs C and GE that could be found unfair, limitation started to
run when the credit agreement ended.
Is the loan agreement voidable?S argues that the timeshare agreement was null and void, which meant the related GE loan
was voidable and Mr and Mrs C now wish to exercise their right to rescind it. If the timeshare
agreement was voidable, I think it is likely that the related loan was also voidable on the
recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something that could be considered
under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I have already explained, I think that claim
was brought too late. But it could also be a freestanding claim in its own right, so I have
considered it separately. I also note that S had taken an extract from a previous decision I
made out of context in its arguments on this point. I do not think it supports their arguments
as they propose.
S has asked me to consider an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a Spanish court
judgment. They say that, taken together, they demonstrate that, a timeshare that provides
for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, is a voidable
agreement. I have considered this argument. But I do not agree Mr and Mrs Cs timeshare
agreement is voidable.
S has supplied a copy of the timeshare agreement and I see that it is governed by English
law, not Spanish law, so I do not think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly to the
question as to whether the contract is voidable under English law.
S has not asked me to consider any specific part of the relevant EU Directive or any other
provision (in English or European law) that would point to Mr and Mrs Cs timeshare being
voidable. Having read all of the relevant legislation, rules and regulations, I cannot see
anything that would have the effect Mr and Mrs Cs representative seeks. In fact, in the
recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by
UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points based timeshare were basic
timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare Regulations 2010. Based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either
the timeshare agreement nor the related credit agreement is voidable for the reasons said.
GEs decision to lend.
Mr and Mrs C say GE didnt carry out a credit check although it did request details of their
employment and income. they were was not asked for any information about their income
and expenditure.
First, at the time Mr and Mrs C took out the loan, a lender had to undertake a borrower
focused assessment and check of affordability to make sure a prospective borrower was
able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. Secondly, if such checks were not carried out,
it is necessary to determine what the right sort of checks would have shown. Finally, if the
checks showed that the repayment of the borrowing was not sustainable, I need to consider
whether the borrower lost out as a result of the decision to lend.
S argues that the right sort of checks did not take place. This might be right that GE did not
do the right sort of checks, but I make no finding on that point. That is because S has not
provided anything to show that the lending was not affordable for them. I have seen nothing
to suggest there were any affordability issues, such as missed payments or other financial
difficulties at the time of the loan. So, I am not persuaded that the complaint should be
upheld on that basis. 
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I currently think GE acted fairly in turning down Mr and MrsCs claims under s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I do not think the loan
agreement was voidable, nor do I think there is any evidence to suggest the lending was
irresponsible or unaffordable.
S didnt agree and restated the grounds it had previously put forward. 
It argued that C had not been compliant with the 1992 Timeshare law. It said the agreement 
failed to set out an accurate description of the accommodation and its location. It also said 
the agreement did not set out the exact period the right may be exercised. It also said that 
the bank made the payment to C earlier than the 1992 law permitted.
S took issue with my understanding of s 14 LA. This was based on its claim that both C and 
GE had breached the law, buy contravening the 1992 legislation. It argued that meant GE 
was negligent and so the time limit was extended by s 14A. It said Mr and Mrs C had three 
years from the date they became aware of these breaches to make a claim.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the 1992 Timeshares Act, the 1994 Directive and the relevant 
regulations, I do not think the law makes the timeshare agreement voidable as suggested 
either. The 1992 Act makes provision for timeshare accommodation being from a pool of 
accommodation, so I think it was drafted with those types of arrangements in mind. Nothing 
in the 1992 Act makes me think selling those types of products was prohibited. So, I dont 
think all timeshare agreements had to refer to a specified apartment or set week to comply 
with the 1992 Act in the way S thinks. 
Neither does the 1992 Act say that timeshare agreements are voidable if the required 
information is not included in the contract, or if money was taken before the end of the 
withdrawal period, in any event. Based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either the 
timeshare agreement or the related loan agreement is voidable for the reasons Ive 
explained. This means I also dont think that Mr and Mrs Cs loan agreement is voidable on 
this basis, and I dont uphold this part of their complaint.
Nor can I say that s 14A offers much support to the argument put forward by S given it has 
not been established there has been a breach of contract.
Section 14A provides a Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to 
cause of action are not known at date of accrual (as per the title of that section). It provides 
for a second period in which a claim for negligence can be made. Looking at what 
happened, when Mr and Mrs C purchased the timeshare and took out the finance, I think 
there was an obligation to give Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make an informed choice about whether to take out the loan. But Im not 
persuaded a duty of care arose or advice was provided that could give rise to a claim to 
which section 14A of the LA could apply. 
S argues that C breached the law while acting as an agent for GE, so GE was responsible 
for Cs actions. They said GE was negligent because they had a duty of care to ensure all 
laws were being complied with when Business C arranged the timeshare contract, as a 
linked agreement.
I accept that C conducted the pre-sale negotiations in the capacity of GEs agent as well as 
in their own capacity, under section 56 of the CCA. But I dont think this creates a duty of care in the way S says. I also dont think this means GE acted negligently. So, I dont think 
that section 14A applies in this case. And I dont think there are any other reasons or 
provisions in the LA that mean time should be extended in these circumstances.
In conclusion I do not consider I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman