DRN-3074543
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the interest, fees and charges that Kensington Mortgage 
Company Limited have applied to their mortgage. The basis of their complaint stems from an 
audit that was carried out on their mortgage account, which concluded theyd been 
overcharged.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P took out a mortgage through a broker in 2005. Whilst the mortgage was 
originally taken out with a different lender, it later transferred to Kensington. For ease, Ill 
refer only to Kensington throughout.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs P complained about their mortgage. They said the mortgage had been 
mis-sold, as they should have been sold a repayment mortgage rather than an interest only 
mortgage. They also said theyd had their mortgage audited, which showed theyd been 
overcharged. The audit concluded that the interest on Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage had been 
calculated incorrectly, and also that some fees and charges had either been applied to the 
mortgage when they shouldnt have been, or they were disproportionate to the costs 
incurred to the lender.
Kensington issued their final response to the complaint. They didnt uphold the complaint, 
but they did agree to reverse £115 worth of fees to the mortgage account as a goodwill 
gesture. They said Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the sale of the mortgage should be re-
directed to the broker who sold it. They noted that the broker was no longer trading so gave 
details of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme for Mr and Mrs P to contact.
Kensington stated that the interest rate had been applied correctly to the mortgage, and the 
monthly payments had been taken in line with this. They said that Mr and Mrs P had been 
kept informed of the interest rate they were paying on their mortgage.
Kensington also said that a complaint about the fees and charges that had been added to 
the account more than six years before the complaint was made had been made out of time. 
So they looked at the fees that had been added to the mortgage since July 2013, and 
refunded an amount of £115 back onto the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs P asked us to look into the complaint. Kensington didnt give our service consent 
to consider the complaint about anything that happened more than six years before it was 
made. 
I issued a decision which set out that our service could consider the following parts of Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint:
Interest has been calculated incorrectly over the term of the mortgage;
Administration fees have been applied to the mortgage unfairly since 29 July 2013;
Direct debit recall fees, default notice fees, and solicitor legal fees added to the 
mortgage over the term were disproportionate to the costs to the lender of applying 
them.
Our investigator has considered the parts of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint that were made in 
time, but he didnt find that Kensington had acted unfairly.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The interest applied to the account
Mr P has told us that he believes hes been overcharged interest as a result of what the audit 
report showed him. The audit report does not make clear how its calculated that interest has 
been overcharged.
However, Ive considered the interest that has been charged on Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage 
since they took it out, and havent seen any evidence that Kensington have charged more 
interest than whats provided for under the mortgage contract.
Mr and Mrs P agreed to take this mortgage out on the basis that the interest rate would track 
Barclays base rate by 2.25% over the entire term. Looking at the interest rate thats been 
applied to this account since it began, Im satisfied the correct rate has been applied in line 
with the agreed terms. 
There have been periods across the mortgage term where the account has been in arrears 
as the full interest only monthly payments havent been met. As a result, fees and charges 
have been added to the account, and the overall amount owed has increased where the 
interest payments have not been maintained. Interest has been charged on these 
outstanding amounts too when theyve not been repaid. That may explain why the audit 
report concluded that Mr and Mrs P had paid more interest than they should have. But as the 
mortgage hasnt always been repaid in line with the terms, I dont think its unreasonable that 
Kensington have applied interest to the total amount outstanding, as its money that has 
been lent and needs to be repaid. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest that Kensington have applied interest to Mr and 
Mrs Ps mortgage account incorrectly, and so I dont think theyve been overcharged as they 
claim.
Administration fees
The audit report states that administration fees have been added to Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage account and therefore have attracted interest. Its stated Kensington didnt make 
Mr and Mrs P aware of the full and true cost of these fees being added to the mortgage. 
Ive said that I can only consider this part of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the fees that 
have been added to the mortgage since 29 July 2013. The only administration fees that have 
been applied to the mortgage since then have since been refunded to Mr and Mrs Ps 
account. I can see the refunds have been applied in a way that puts Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage account back in to the position it would have been in had the fees not been 
applied, which will include any interest that was charged on them. As a result, Im satisfied 
Kensington dont need to take any further action to put this right.
Disproportionate chargesThe audit states that some fees (direct debit recall fees, default notice fees, and solicitor 
legal fees) have been overcharged as they are disproportionate to the actual cost to the 
lender of applying them. The audit also said the regulator had fined some lenders for 
charging excessive fees  and that included Kensington in 2010.
Ive considered the fees that have been applied to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage over the term, 
and Ive not found them to be excessive or disproportionate. Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage was 
not with Kensington in 2010, and so the regulators findings highlighted in the audit are not 
relevant to the charges applied to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage.
Im satisfied the fees and charges that Kensington have applied have been set out clearly in 
their tariff of charges documents, and also on Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage statements. 
Kensingtons charges are not out of line with those charged by other similar lenders in the 
market, and based on the evidence Ive seen Im not persuaded theyre disproportionate.
As well as the direct debit recall and default fees and charges, Kensington have also added 
solicitors costs on to Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage account for the legal action taken to recover 
the mortgage arrears. The audit states these are disproportionate, but Ive seen evidence to 
show that Kensington only passed on the costs they incurred as a result of taking that action. 
And looking at the fees that were incurred, Im not persuaded they were excessive in the 
circumstances.
Summary
I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, as theyre expecting a large 
refund from Kensington as a result of the audit findings, but I havent seen anything to 
suggest Kensington have overcharged Mr and Mrs P in the way the audit claims. As a result, 
I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Kathryn Billings
Ombudsman