DRN-3721266
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the way Metro Bank PLC (Metro Bank) handled her claim for a 
refund of a payment she made using her Metro Bank debit card.
What happened
On 13 February 2020, Mrs M used her Metro Bank debit card to pay a travel agent Ill call T 
£1,681.11 for return flights from London to Bangkok for herself and two others. 
They were due to fly from London to Bangkok on 6 May 2020 and return on 16 May 2020. 
However, the flights were cancelled when the Civil Aviation Authority of Thailand banned all 
international passenger flights in April 2020, and later extended the ban for all of May 2020.
When Mrs M first contacted Metro Bank, she said T gave her a credit note, and later said it 
would give her a refund within 90 days. Regrettably, T didnt confirm this in writing, and it 
went into administration on 21 August 2020  before Mrs M received a refund.
On 25 August 2020, Mrs M called Metro Bank to ask it to help her get a refund. The 
Metro Bank employee asked Mrs M to provide some evidence to support her claim  
including a copy of the original booking confirmation or receipt, a copy of the cancellation 
notification from T, any other correspondence between Mrs M and T, and any evidence she 
had that T had gone into administration.
Metro Bank then wrote to Mrs M on 31 August 2020 to confirm the evidence that was 
required. Specifically, it asked Mrs M to provide evidence that shed tried to resolve the 
dispute with T, a cover letter explaining the dispute with sufficient detail for all parties to 
understand it, and receipts/invoices. 
Mrs M called Metro Bank on 8 September 2020 for further clarification. She asked what she 
needed to provide and how to provide it. Specifically, she said: Ive got the original papers 
for the booking of the holiday with me, is that what youre after? The Metro Bank employee 
replied: Thats what were after. And also just a cover letter from yourself explaining the 
situation: that theyve gone bust, that you booked a holiday with them, the company have 
gone into liquidation, theyve given you the option of a refund within 90 days but that never 
happened, you never actually managed to get the refund obtained.
On 10 September 2020, Mrs M went into a branch of Metro Bank and provided a brief cover 
letter, the paperwork shed received from T when she booked the flights, and a letter from 
ABTA about T.
In a letter dated 23 September 2020, Metro Bank said it was unable to assist Mrs M due to 
the 120 day timeframe. It didnt explain what it meant by the 120 day timeframe, why it 
thought Mrs Ms claim was out of time, or what evidence Mrs M had or had not provided that 
had caused it to reach this conclusion. An email Metro Bank sent Mrs M on 
20 January 2021, in response to a complaint, simply repeated the same line.
Mrs M then referred her complaint to our service.
Metro Bank told us that as Mrs M had not provided evidence that the holiday was cancelled, 
or that a credit note had been provided, it had reviewed the claim using the expected date of 
travel, when T was still trading, and concluded that Mrs Ms claim fell outside the 120 days 
that Mastercard allows for a chargeback.
One of our investigators upheld the complaint. He recommended that Metro Bank refund the 
payment of £1,681.11 with simple interest at 8% per year from the date it first declined her 
claim until the date she receives the refund.
Disappointingly, Metro Bank didnt respond to our investigator  or to his subsequent emails.
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A chargeback is a way for a debit card provider to reclaim money from the suppliers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services she paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Mastercard  
and a strict criteria and time limits apply.
The card provider isnt required to initiate a chargeback just because the consumer asks it to 
 but I think its good practice for one to be attempted when theres a reasonable prospect of 
success.
In this case, I think Metro Bank should have initiated a chargeback. And if it had, I think its 
likely it would have succeeded and Mrs M would have received a full cash refund. Ill explain 
why.
Alongside its detailed rules, Mastercard helpfully issued guidance during the pandemic. The 
guidance it issued at the start of May 2020 says:
In the case of a reasonable alternative (e.g. voucher or merchant-branded gift card) 
being provided after a merchant cancelled services, Mastercard allows issuers to 
submit chargebacks if the reasonable alternative is not useable as described, due to 
merchant becoming insolvent or the service not being otherwise available.
And in guidance it issued at the start of April 2020, Mastercard explained the time limits that 
apply:
A chargeback may be considered within 120 calendar days of the voucher or 
merchant-branded gift cards expiration date, or if undated, then 540 calendar days 
from the central site processing date of the original transaction.
Finally, Mastercards Chargeback Guide from May 2020 sets out whats required to initiate 
a chargeback for Goods or Services Not Provided. It says the Cardholders email, letter, 
message or completed Dispute Resolution Form, must include:
A description of the cardholders complaint in sufficient detail to enable all parties to 
understand the dispute; and,
A reasonably specific description of the goods/services purchased.I think Mrs M provided Metro Bank with sufficient detail to enable all parties to understand 
the dispute. If it considered her cover letter insufficient, it could and should have explained 
why so that Mrs M could amend it accordingly. I appreciate that Mrs M was initially asked to 
send Metro Bank a copy of the correspondence from T confirming that her flights had been 
cancelled, but the follow-up letter didnt mention this  nor did the employee Mrs M spoke to 
on 8 September 2020. And it wasnt required to initiate the chargeback in any event.
Likewise, Metro Bank neither asked for, nor needed, a copy of the credit note from T to 
initiate the chargeback. When Mrs M first spoke to Metro Bank, she explained that shed 
chosen a credit note with T, instead of the airline, because T told her that with its credit note, 
she could go anywhere, anytime. I think Metro Bank could and should have initiated a 
chargeback on the basis that Mrs M accepted a credit note that was no longer useable 
because T was insolvent. Given what Ive said above about the time limits for such a claim, 
its clear it would have been in time whether there was an expiration date or not.
Had Metro Bank initiated a chargeback, on balance and based on the evidence available to 
me, I dont think T would have been able to show that the dispute was invalid or otherwise 
defend the chargeback.
It is now too late for Metro Bank to initiate a chargeback. As Im satisfied, on balance, that 
Mrs M would have received a full cash refund if it had initiated one when it should have 
done, I think Metro Bank should pay Mrs M £1,681.11, with simple interest at 8% per year 
from 23 September 2020  when Metro Bank wrote to Mrs M to say it was unable to assist 
 until the date she receives the money.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold this complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to pay Mrs M 
£1,681.11 with simple interest at 8% per year from 23 September 2020 until she receives the 
money.
If Metro Bank thinks it needs to deduct tax from the interest element of this award, it should 
provide Mrs M with a certificate of tax deduction if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman