DRN-4278942
The complaint
U (represented by its director Mr L) complains that Caxton Payments Limited is holding it 
liable for a payment it did not authorise.
What happened
U holds a business account with Caxton, on 7 December 2022 Mr L asked Caxton to 
arrange a payment of $33,000 to a Dubai bank account in his name. Caxton confirmed the 
exchange rate to Mr L later that day and said it would arrange the transfer.
The following day, Caxton received an email  apparently also from Mr L  asking for the 
payment to instead be made to a different Dubai bank account. Caxton confirmed it would 
make the payment to this new account and, ultimately, the transfer was completed on 14 
December 2022.
When Mr L did not receive the funds into the account he was expecting, it became apparent 
that hed been the victim of a sophisticated fraud. It seems emails between Mr L and Caxton 
had been intercepted and changed so that the payment was diverted to an account 
belonging to a third party. Mr L asked Caxton to refund the payment to him, he confirmed 
that he had not made the request for the recipient account to be changed and he felt Caxton 
should have contacted him to confirm the change in account details before processing the 
payment. 
Caxton didnt agree, it said the emails it received were consistent with its usual 
correspondence with Mr L and so hadnt caused it any concerns. It also said that, as a 
business, U had a responsibility to ensure its email systems were secure and Caxton did not 
think U had done enough to protect itself. Caxton also noted that Mr L had received emails 
purporting to be from Caxton which should have caused him concern, but that he did not flag 
those with Caxton at the time. So, overall, Caxton did not believe it was unfair for U to be 
held liable for the disputed payment.
As Mr L remained unhappy he referred Us complaint to our service, where one of our 
Investigators looked into what had happened. They felt that there was enough to flag to 
Caxton that this payment may be suspicious, and so they considered that Caxton should 
have done more to ensure it was legitimate. They also didnt think that anything Mr L had 
done amounted to gross negligence. So they recommended that Caxton refund the payment 
to U with interest.
Caxton disagreed, it maintained that U had not done enough to either prevent the fraud or to 
flag it when it received suspicious emails, and that there had been no reason for it to flag the 
payment as suspicious.
As no agreement could be reached this case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law relating to this complaint is the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs), and broadly speaking U is responsible for any payments that it has authorised and 
it isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. The exception to this is where the payment 
service user (in this case Mr L, acting on behalf of U) has acted fraudulently, or has with 
intent or gross negligence failed to comply with their obligations as a payment service user.
Having reviewed all the evidence provided, Im satisfied that U did not authorise this 
payment. I consider that it is clear from the extensive email correspondence provided that an 
unknown third party was intercepting emails between Mr L and Caxton and it was that 
individual who impersonated Mr L to authorise the payment to the new account, not Mr L 
himself. 
Caxton suggested in its initial submission to us that it was possible Mr L may have been 
complicit in this fraud, but I have seen no clear evidence to support that. What I have seen is 
evidence that emails were sent but not received by both Caxton and Mr L, and that both 
Caxton and Mr L were impersonated by the scammer, via email. Im satisfied that Mr L was 
the victim of a sophisticated fraud and that neither he nor any other agent of U was aware 
that the disputed payment was not being made to the account he had specified.
Given that Im satisfied U did not authorise this payment, the starting position is that U 
should not be held liable for it. The exception is if Caxton can demonstrate that U failed with 
intent or gross negligence to comply with its obligations as a payment service user, and 
thereby enabled the transaction to take place. Ive not seen any arguments to suggest that U 
 or Mr L  failed with intent here, so Ill focus on gross negligence.
The FCA, in its guidance on its approach under the PSRs explains that we interpret gross 
negligence to be a higher standard than the standard of negligence under common law. The 
customer needs to have shown a very significant degree of carelessness.
Caxton has suggested that the very fact Us emails were hacked by a third party 
demonstrates that it had not done enough to protect itself from fraud. But given the high bar 
for gross negligence, and the sophistication of email interception scams such as this, I think 
it is difficult to argue that U has been grossly negligent here. Caxton has also referred to 
suspicious emails that Mr L received where a purported employee of Caxton asked him for a 
loan, but that was some days after the transfer in question here, so would not have been a 
trigger point that could have prevented the fraud. 
So with this in mind, I dont consider that Mr Ls actions (as director of U) fell so far below the 
standard of a reasonable person that he failed with gross negligence. It follows that, as per 
the PSRs, I do not consider it reasonable for U to be held liable for the disputed payment, 
and I therefore agree with our Investigators recommendation that Caxton should refund the 
disputed payment to U.
Our Investigator, and Caxton, have discussed in some detail the question of whether Caxton 
should have been aware that something untoward was going on and so should have 
stepped in to question this payment. But given the above, I do not consider this to be 
relevant to this case, so I have not commented on it further.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Caxton should:- Refund to Us account the $33,000 payment that is in dispute;
- Refund any fees or charges associated with that payment; and 
- Add 8% simple interest from the date the payment was made until the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Caxton Payments Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman