DRN-4449017
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund the money he lost as the result of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the details of the scam so I will provide only a summary here. It 
concerns the following faster payments, all made via mobile banking from HSBC to Mr Ps 
Coinbase account - and then on to other cryptocurrency wallets.
payment date value
1 23/12/2022 £100
2 27/12/2022 £20,000
3 28/12/2022 £20,000
Mr P was contacted with a job opportunity that required him to deposit money in order to 
access tasks he had to complete to grow the funds he held on account. After he had done 
this for some time, and kept being foiled by super tasks that in essence prevented him from 
getting his money back, he realised it was a scam and reported it to HSBC. He says he was 
very inexperienced in the finance sector and he was particularly vulnerable at the time of the 
scam due to family circumstances.
HSBC said the payments were not covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code as they were made to another account in Mr Ps name. Also, he had made a number of 
payments to this account before for a similar value.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ps account. She said the payments were not out of 
character for the account and so HSBC was not wrong when it did not intervene.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in summary, there are 
provisions in both the CRM code and the BSI (British Standards Institution) code that mean 
HSBC ought to have prevented the fraud.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint. I want to reassure Mr P I have carefully 
considered all the points he made in his initial complaint letter and subsequent submissions 
to this service. I mean no discourtesy by this, but in keeping with our role as an informal 
dispute resolution service  and as our rules allow - I will focus here on the points I find to be 
material to the outcome of his complaint. 
Theres no dispute that Mr P made and authorised the payments. Mr P knew who he was
paying, and the reason why. At the stage he was making these payments, he believed
he was depositing funds to allow him to generate income by completing online tasks. I dont 
dispute Mr P was scammed and he wasnt making payments for the reason he thought he 
was, but I remain satisfied the transactions were authorised under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017.
Its also accepted that HSBC has an obligation to follow Mr Ps instructions. So in the
first instance Mr P is presumed liable for his loss. But there are other factors that must be
considered.
To reach my decision I have taken into account the law, regulators rules and guidance,
relevant codes of practice and what was good industry practice at the time. To note, as the 
payments were to an account Mr Ps name, the principles of the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) code do not apply in this case. 
This means I think that HSBC should have:
been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various
risks, including fraud and scams, money laundering, and the financing of terrorism.
had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, taken
additional steps or made additional checks before processing a payment, or in some
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect its customers from the
possibility of financial harm.
In this case I dont think HSBC ought to be held liable for the transactions. I dont think the 
payments were out of character for Mr Ps account. This means I cannot fairly find HSBC 
ought to have identified the transactions as suspicious and taken steps to prevent the fraud. 
I say this for a number of reasons. The recipient account was not a new payee  HSBC has 
provided 12 months of statements and I can see Mr P had moved money to this account as 
far back as January 2022. And the value of the payments was not unusual for this recipient 
account  Mr P had transferred a total of £80,000 to it in five separate payments (two were 
for £25,000) during 2022. 
I also cant see there were any of the typical characteristics of scams that ought to have 
concerned HSBC. The payments were not made in rapid succession, nor did they drain the 
account. There were no unsuccessful login attempts in Mr Ps online banking audit prior to 
the transactions. And I have not seen any evidence HSBC was on notice that Mr P was 
vulnerable at the time.
I have also considered whether HSBC did what we would expect to try to recover Mr Ps 
money after the scam was reported. Mr P didnt instruct HSBC to send these payments 
directly to the scammer, but instead to a Coinbase account in his own name. And thats what 
HSBC did. I dont think it was ever going to be likely that HSBC would have been able 
facilitate recovery of these payments after Mr P had moved the payments from his Coinbase 
account onto the scammer. 
This means I am not instructing HSBC to refund any money to Mr P. 
This is a difficult decision to make, Im sorry Mr P lost a considerable amount of money 
which was very distressing for him. I can understand why he would like to be compensated for his losses. And I do accept Mr P has fallen victim to a sophisticated scam. But I can only 
consider whether the bank, which had no involvement in the scam itself, should be held 
responsible for what happened. For the reasons set out above I do not find HSBC can be 
held liable in the circumstances of this case. 
I am aware Mr P has another scam complaint with this service that he has referenced during 
this investigation: we consider each complaint on its individual merits and I can only 
comment here on this case.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman