DRN-2430776
The complaint
Mr C complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) have failed to recall a 
balance transfer made in error to another bank. 
What happened
Mr C had a credit card account with another bank (B) and in October 2019 made a balance 
transfer to that account from his Halifax credit card account. In January 2020 Mr C noticed 
that B were still charging him for the balance he believed he had settled. On investigation Mr 
C was told by Halifax that he had made an error on the online balance transfer details and 
the payment had been credited to another account. Mr C says Halifax attempted a recall of 
the payment but were unsuccessful and he was told his only option was to take legal action 
to recover the monies. 
Halifax says Mr C made the error and while they have tried to obtain a recall, the receiving 
bank customer has refused to return the funds. Halifax says they have no authority to debit 
the receiving banks customers credit card account to recover the monies and they have 
done all they can here.
Mr C wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says Halifax werent responsible for the mistake in keying the wrong account 
details and have attempted to recall the balance transfer. The investigator felt Halifax had 
fulfilled their duties and within a reasonable timeframe and they are unable to make the 
receiving bank customer return the monies sent in error. 
Mr C wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand how upsetting it must have been for Mr C to be told Halifax had been 
unsuccessful in recalling the balance transfer. When considering this complaint, I have 
looked  at whether Halifax were at fault here and if they could have done more to recall the 
balance transfer. 
What happened here is Mr C completed an online balance transfer to his credit card account 
with B from his Halifax credit card account in October 2019. He then noticed in January 2020 
he was still being charged on his credit card account with B and on investigation discovered 
the balance hadnt been repaid because of an input error on the balance transfer. 
I can see that Halifax attempted to recall the balance transfer and chased B but the recipient 
banks customer, where the funds were credited, refused to return the payment. Halifax then 
advised Mr C they had done all they could, and he would need to take legal steps to recover 
the funds. 
Mr Cs representative says Mr C may have incorrectly input the account details, but the 
payment had his name detailed on it and Halifax should have been aware of this and could 
have done more to recover the funds. I understand the point made here, but transfers are 
made based on the credit card account number details and it was Mr Cs responsibility to 
correctly input his account details on the balance transfer. From all the evidence provided to 
this service I am satisfied that Mr C entered the incorrect balance transfer details online 
himself. We have been provided with screen shots to evidence this and there is nothing to 
suggest that Halifax have made an error here.
Its worth mentioning the terms and conditions of the credit card agreement under section 
B2.6 says:
If there was a mistake in your instruction or we can show that the other bank received the 
transfer, we are not responsible for it, but we will try to trace and recover the money for you 
on request.
I have considered Mr Cs representative point that Halifax could have done more to recover 
the balance transfer  I can see that Halifax undertook a recall of the balance transfer soon 
after they were advised by Mr C and followed this up by chasing the recipient bank. This is 
carried out on a best endeavours basis as the terms and conditions indicate, but 
unfortunately in this case the recipient customer has refused to return the monies. While I 
can understand how disappointing that must be for Mr C I cant see that Halifax have any 
authority here to demand the return of the balance transfer. It follows I am satisfied Halifax 
have acted fairly in attempting to recall the balance transfer, but given the initial mistake 
wasnt of their making I cant hold them responsible for the non-return of the payment.  
While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Halifax here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 January 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman