DRN-2612744
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled his motor insurance
claim. Any reference to Aviva in this decision includes its agents.
  
What happened
Mr R was involved in a road traffic accident and says Aviva failed to recover his vehicle from
the scene within the agreed timescale. When Aviva did attend, it was unable to access the
vehicle without his keys. Mr R was no longer present at the scene  he had to go to hospital
because of a medical condition. Mr R says there was continued problems when Aviva
collected the vehicle the following day. And once the vehicle was recovered Mr R says Aviva
failed to repair it properly on numerous occasions, leaving it with outstanding damage.
Mr R says Aviva provided him with a hire car while his vehicle was being repaired, and the
hire car company (Company A) gave him poor service  telling him the hire car would be
delivered to him and not doing this. And he had to take a taxi to Company As premises to
collect the hire car.
Aviva agreed the repairs werent of a satisfactory standard given Mr R had to return the
vehicle three times. It offered £200 compensation for any trouble and upset caused. It also
said it was willing to take the car back in to complete any outstanding repairs, but itd been
unable to get in contact with Mr R to arrange a suitable time for this to happen.
With regards to the hire car, Aviva said any concerns Mr R had about it would need to be
taken up with Company A directly as they are a separate entity to Aviva. It said itd asked for
more information regarding the timeline of the recovery  notably whether its recovery agent
had informed Mr R that it was running late and why  so that it could consider this complaint
point further, but it hadnt heard back from Mr R. It also set out its position on liability.
Our investigator considered the complaint and said Aviva should increase its offer of
compensation to £350 given the further issues Mr R said he had with the recovery. He also
said Aviva were responsible for Company As actions and so should cover the cost of Mr Rs
taxi. And he said that given the issues with previous repairs, Aviva should contact Mr R and
allow him to have the vehicle repaired by an authorised repairer of his choice or offer a cash
payment in lieu so Mr R could arrange the repairs himself.
Aviva disagreed that the compensation should be increased. It said Mr R failed to provide
more information about the recovery when asked. And it maintained it wasnt responsible for
Company As actions so wouldnt cover the taxi cost. It said it was willing to address the
outstanding repairs but still hadnt been able to get in contact with Mr R to agree a suitable
way forward on this.
The complaint was passed to me to make a decision. And I issued a provisional decision on 
it in February 2021. Ive included part of this below:
Car hire
Our investigator said Aviva should cover Mr Rs taxi cost, which I understand was a few
pounds. From what Ive seen, the hire car seems to have been provided as a courtesy
vehicle under the policy. Aviva arranged this through its preferred supplier and covered the
bill for this hire. Our investigator concluded Aviva is responsible for the actions of its
appointed agents  which Company A seem to be in this case.
But page 14 of the policy document sets out what Aviva is and isnt responsible for under the
policy when it provides courtesy or hire cars. And under the heading titled We will not be
responsible for it says, collection and delivery charges (if they apply).
It follows, based on what Ive seen, I dont think the fee Mr R paid for his taxi, which he took
to collect the hire car, is an insured loss. And while this means of collection may have been
an inconvenience and not what Company A initially promised, I think the likely upset this
caused Mr R is already encompassed in the compensation payment for trouble and upset I
would look to award taking everything into account and considering Avivas role in the issue.
So I dont intend to direct Aviva to reimburse Mr R for the taxi fee.
Vehicle recovery
Mr R says he reported the accident to Aviva at around 5pm and was told Company A would
arrive within 90 minutes. Company A didnt arrive until around 8.30pm, but Mr R had to leave
shortly before this to attend hospital and couldnt wait any longer.
While waiting for Company A, his car was moved to what the police advised was a safer part
of the road. But when Company A arrived to collect the vehicle, they couldnt access it
without Mr Rs keys. So I understand it was left on a busy road overnight as Mr R wasnt
discharged from hospital until the early hours of the following morning.
Mr R says he then had to attend his vehicle again, with very little sleep, to give Company A
access. He was met at the scene by police, who questioned why the vehicle was parked
where it was, which he says caused him stress. He says Company A initially refused to
collect the vehicle from its location and only agreed to do so on speaking with the police.
It seems to me Aviva has accepted its agent didnt arrive within 90 minutes. And taking this
and everything else into consideration, I think it was clear from the outset its service had
fallen short in the handling of Mr Rs recovery. It failed to meet an agreed timescale, which
resulted in Mr R waiting by a busy roadside longer than he should have, while he was also
suffering from a medical condition and had an impending hospital appointment. His vehicle
was then left unattended and in an unusual location overnight and he then had further issues
the following day.
The investigator recommended the compensation be increased from £200 to £350 to
recognise the trouble and upset this caused and Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable in
the circumstances. This increase also takes into consideration any upset Mr R had regarding
Avivas involvement in the taxi for the hire car. So I intend to direct Aviva to pay Mr R this
amount.Vehicle repairs
Both parties agree there are still outstanding repairs that need to be rectified on Mr Rs
vehicle. Mr R is concerned about this as the vehicle is leased, so he says hell be charged
for this damage when he gives the car back.
Aviva says its willing to carry out the necessary repairs but has been unable to get in
contact with Mr R to do so. Mr R on the other hand says Aviva keeps promising to carry out
the repairs but fails to do it. Whatever the situation is, its clear that both parties need to
communicate with each other in order to move this claim forward.
From what Ive seen, it seems the previous company that carried out the repairs on Mr Rs
vehicle failed to do it correctly at least three times. And Aviva agrees this isnt satisfactory.
Given the experience, I think its reasonable for Aviva to instruct a different authorised 
repairer to carry out the outstanding repair work. Alternatively, if Mr R decides hes happy for
Avivas existing repairers to carry out any necessary work, he should say this in his response
to this decision.
If these options arent possible, Aviva should look at another means of settling the claim
under the terms and conditions of the policy  such a cash settlement  so that Mr R/ the
lease company can arrange to have the repairs carried out themselves.
Aviva accepted the provisional decision and said it was also happy to reimburse Mr Rs taxi 
cost if this hasnt already been done. Mr R raised some further comments in response to my 
provisional decision which Ive addressed in my findings below.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised what I deem to be Mr Rs key comments in response to my provisional 
decision and addressed them below.
Cup holder  Mr R says the cup holder was damaged in the accident and still hasnt 
been repaired, so he wants it expressly noted that this needs to be included in any 
repairs Aviva carry out. As set out in the provisional decision, Aviva says its willing to 
carry out the necessary repairs to Mr Rs vehicle. So Mr R should get in touch with 
Aviva to arrange for this to happen.
Retuning the lease car  Mr R says hes due to return the lease car to the lease 
provider shortly, so he wants any liaison about the repairs to be carried out directly 
between Aviva and the lease provider as he doesnt want to be involved. But the 
complaint Ive considered in this case is between Mr R and Aviva. If Mr R wants 
Aviva to liaise with the lease provider instead of him regarding repairs, hell need to 
explore this with Aviva directly and separate to this complaint. This isnt something I 
can direct it to do in this case.
Policy excess  Mr R says hes still out of pocket for his policy excess even though 
its been decided that the claim wasnt his fault. From what I can see, this is a new 
complaint point and so cant be considered under this case. If Mr R has concerns 
about the policy excess, he needs to raise this with Aviva in the first instance. 
Compensation and fines  Mr R would like us to fine Aviva more money otherwise it 
wont learn. This service doesnt have the power to fine businesses. The £350 Ive 
directed Aviva to pay in this case is compensation to recognise the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr R as a result of its poor service in this case. And for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision, Im satisfied this amount is fair and reasonable.It follows, after reviewing Mr Rs comments in full, my findings remain unchanged for the 
reasons already set out in my provisional decision and explained above. It follows, I still think 
this complaint should be upheld in part. 
Putting things right
If it hasnt done so already, Aviva Insurance Limited must do the following to put things right:
 Arrange for Mr Rs outstanding vehicle repairs to be carried out and resolved under 
the claim. Mr R should liaise with Aviva to decide on the most suitable and fair way to 
do this in line with his requirements under his lease agreement and the policy terms 
and conditions as set out in my findings above.
OR
Provide Mr R with a cash settlement that will enable him to have the appropriate 
works carried out in line with what Ive said above.
Pay Mr R £350 compensation for trouble and upset.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and Aviva Insurance Limited must do 
what Ive said above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman