DRN-3185185
The complaint
Mr C complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) misled him about 
the finance agreement he entered into.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
The deal which Mr C was offered allowed him to make no payments for three months and 
then pay the balance over 45 months with a final balloon payment if he wished to purchase 
the car. The interest rate was reduced compared to the standard offer and in the example 
provided by VFS for a car costing £23,900 the savings would be in the region of £700. 
However, to achieve the full savings the agreement had to run its four-year course. This was 
because the three months where no payments were due were in effect deferred into the 
following 45 months payments. This is described in the agreement as a payment holiday.
Mr C decided to end his agreement early due to the pandemic as he wasnt making full use 
of the car. He says he had been told about how the agreement worked and he thought VFS 
had paid the first three months payments rather than it being a payment holiday funded by a 
reduced interest rate.
I appreciate Mr Cs concern and often merchants seek to simplify the explanations of the 
deals they offer. For example, some offer to pay the VAT on goods when in reality they are 
simply reducing the price by the amount of VAT due on the normal price. I think this is what 
may have happened here. 
VFS has provided a literature it produced about the scheme in which it makes it clear that 
the deal incorporates a payment holiday. I appreciate that Mr C may not have seen this and I 
gather the salesman described the deal as including three free payments. He also said the 
first three payments were made by VFS so Mr C wouldnt have to pay them. These 
statements are not wholly accurate, but I believe they were intended to convey the general 
nature of the scheme.
However, the documentation does make the terms of the deal clear, as our investigator has 
set out. I also dont think had Mr C fully appreciated the way the scheme worked he would 
have taken alternative funding. The issue that has caused him concern arose from the early 
termination of the loan which he was not anticipating when he took it out. I appreciate Mr C 
will be disappointed with my decision, but I dont believe it was likely he would have taken 
the more expensive offer. As such I dont consider I can uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman