DRN-3506298
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R, as trustees of Trust L, are complaining that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) delayed opening the trust account. 
What happened
On 8 January 2020 Mr and Mrs R met with their relationship manager at NatWest to open 
two trust accounts. This complaint is only dealing with Trust L. Mr and Mrs R said they 
wanted to open the trust account to deposit £325,000 into and that Mr R will manage the 
investments within the account. Mr and Mrs R completed the necessary paperwork and were 
told the account was open.
Later, Mr and Mrs R received account numbers and debit cards for personal accounts. When 
they queried this, they were told that the trust accounts hadnt been set up correctly. It took a 
number of emails and online chats to understand what had happened. NatWest opened this 
trust account (for Trust L) on 25 March 2020. The other trust account was opened in January 
2020. NatWest wasnt able to confirm that the account for Trust L had been opened 
correctly, with the correct online access, until 4 May 2020. Mr and Mrs R then didnt fund the 
trust account until September 2020 and invested the £325,000 gradually over the coming 
months.
NatWest acknowledged that it had made an error, and that Mr and Mrs R had experienced 
delays. It offered Mr and Mrs R £250 compensation for this issue. Mr and Mrs R said that 
NatWest hadnt considered any loss associated with not being able to invest the money in 
the trust account. NatWest explained that the money couldve been invested outside of the 
trust and so there hasnt been a loss.
Our Investigator recommended this complaint be upheld. She said that the trust account 
shouldve been opened on 8 January 2020  when the personal accounts were opened in 
error. So, she felt that there couldve been a loss of investment growth as it was reasonable 
for Mr and Mrs R to wait until the funds were inside the trust before investing. 
The Investigator did note that the account wasnt actually funded until September 2020 but 
she said this was a choice that Mr and Mrs R had taken in reaction to the markets during the 
pandemic. So, she recommended NatWest pay Mr and Mrs R the difference in value of the 
£325,000 from 8 January 2020 when it couldve been invested, to 4 May 2020 when it was 
confirmed the account was open and operating correctly. The Investigator recommended 
NatWest use the MSCI WMA Private Investor Global Growth Index as a benchmark as it 
was clear from Mr Rs evidence that his investments were in line with this index. The 
Investigator also recommended NatWest pays Mr and Mrs R £350 for the trouble and upset 
this has caused them. 
NatWest made no additional comments but showed that there was no financial loss when 
calculating the redress. Mr and Mrs R felt that the dates for investment comparison should 
be changed. Mr R explained that he wouldnt have invested until April 2020 and felt the 
financial loss calculation should start from then. He provided evidence to show that he hadnt 
changed any of his existing investment portfolios during that time until capital additions in 
April and said hed have done the same with the Trusts investments.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has come to me to reach a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that NatWest made an error in setting up this trust account. Its clear that the 
account shouldve been set up on 8 January 2020. So, this decision is focused on how to put 
things right.
Trouble and upset
Ive reviewed the correspondence between Mr and Mrs R and NatWest about the setting up 
of these accounts. Its clear that Mr and Mrs R wanted a specific account, wanted to deposit 
£325,000 in it to invest and wanted online access to it. It wasnt clear that all this had 
happened until 4 May 2020. So, there was a delay experienced, as well as a series of 
miscommunication that took up time and caused frustration.
I agree with our investigator that NatWest should pay Mr and Mrs R £350 for the trouble and 
upset caused by the error. The accounts were opened face to face as Mr and Mrs R said 
they wanted avoid any difficulties like these and its clear the errors, and confusion in 
communication has caused frustration.
Investment loss
Mr and Mrs R had £325,000 to deposit into the trust account and the intention was for this to 
be invested and managed by Mr R. Mr R has shown us his personal portfolios and Im 
satisfied hed invest in assets which reflected the MSCI WMA Private Investor Global Growth 
Index. This is broadly agreed by all parties. What isnt agreed is the date on which Mr and 
Mrs R wouldve started to invest these funds.
Its clear that had the accounts been opened correctly, the funds couldve been deposited 
ready to invest from 8 January 2020. Mr R has said that he wouldnt have invested that 
money until 8 April 2020. He has told us that the trust account wouldve reflected his own 
investments and hes told us that he hadnt made any changes to his investments between 
January and April 2020. Mr R specifically referenced that he knew using the start date of 8 
January wouldnt show any financial loss because of the decline in stock market prices that 
began in February 2020.
Ive thought carefully about what I think wouldve happened had the accounts been opened 
correctly. Its clear that we cant be sure what would have happened, but I need to consider 
whether I think its likely that Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have invested that money inside the 
trust account until April 2020. But Im not persuaded thats the case. 
I do acknowledge that Mr R didnt change his existing portfolios between January and April 
2020, but his portfolios contained investments. In this case, the £325,000 wouldve been sat 
as cash. And when the accounts shouldve been opened, the decline in the stock market 
hadnt yet happened. Things werent clear in terms of the impact of the pandemic in early 
January 2020 and the markets didnt reflect the impact for some weeks after this point. 
Taking this into account, and the lack of activity in Mr Rs own portfolio I dont think, on 
balance, that Mr and Mrs R wouldve done anything but invest the money if the account had opened on 8 January 2020 - particularly given their intention to invest the £325,000 when 
applying for the account. I think the actions Mr R is now saying hed take are with the benefit 
of hindsight. So, I think its fair, when considering redress, to use the start date of 8 January 
2020 as I think its likely Mr R wouldve started to invest the money at this point.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put the 
trust as close to the position it would probably now be in if NatWest hadnt caused delays.
It is not possible to say precisely what the trustees would have done had the trust accounts 
been opened without delay. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given the trust's circumstances and objectives when the trustees invested.
What must NatWest do?
To compensate the trust fairly, NatWest must:
Compare the performance of the trust's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
NatWest should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay to the trust £350 for the inconvenience caused by the delays and errors.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Trust L Still exists 
and liquidMSCI WMA 
Private Investor 
Global Growth 
Index8 January 
20204 May 2020 8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?I have decided on this method of compensation because:
the trustees wanted Capital growth and were willing to accept some investment risk.
Its been made clear from the evidence submitted that Mr R wouldve invested in 
assets which broadly resemble the MSCI WMA Private Investor Global Growth Index.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
National Westminster Bank Plc should provide details of its calculation to the trust in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L and Mrs R and 
Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman