DRN-2218227
The complaint
Mr D, who is represented by a solicitor, complains that Carnegie Consumer Finance Limited 
rejected his claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of a training 
course.
What happened
In April 2017 Mr D made enquiries about a training course from a company I will call T. He 
was visited by one of their representatives and enrolled. He funded the course with a loan 
from Creation for £7,095. Mr Ds girlfriend was present at the meeting. 
Mr D says he was told the course would take place at a local college about 5 to 10 minutes 
from his home. Mr Ds father fell ill in September 2017 and T agreed to a deferral. In March 
2018 Mr D says he contacted T to begin the course and found it wasnt being held locally.
Carnegies internal records show that Mr D fell into arrears not long after entering into the 
agreement. Its notes show that in June 2017 Mr D had lost his job and was considering 
leaving the country and hadnt started any of the coursework. His payments were irregular 
and in July 2018 he told Carnegie that he wanted to stop payments as he had discovered 
the college was an hour and half way from his home.
Mr D continued to make some payments but missed others. In January 2019 the notes show 
he told Carnegie that T had stopped trading and he wanted to get out of the agreement. He 
then made a complaint that the course had been mis-sold as he had not been told about the 
location of the college. 
In July 2019 Mr Ds solicitor made a formal complaint. Carnegie rejected this and said it had 
liaised with T before reaching a conclusion. It said it couldnt say what had been discussed 
during the meeting between Mr D and Ts representative. However, it said comprehensive 
written material had been provided at the point of sale which gave accurate details of the 
location of the practical training sessions. Mr D had signed a declaration which confirmed he 
had been given the complete course kit. In the terms and conditions, it stated that: Practical 
sessions will take place at a venue of our choice.
It added that the material made it clear that practical training would take place over nine 
week-long sessions. It had found no evidence which indicated that training was to take place 
at evenings and weekends. Mr D had a 14-day cooling off period which he had not made 
use of.
Finally, it said that T offered a slightly different programme where some of the practical 
training took pace at weekend and this might suit him better.
The solicitor didnt agree and referred the complaint to this service. It was considered by one 
of our investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. She noted the documentary material 
which showed the location of the training venues. Like Carnegie and T she was unable to 
say what had been said by the representative. However, it was Mr Ds responsibility to 
ensure he read and understood the information he was given. It was regrettable that he felt 
matters had been misrepresented, but there was insufficient evidence to allow her to uphold 
this complaint. 
The solicitor didnt agree and submitted a witness statement from Mr Ds girlfriend which 
stated that she specifically asked the representative where the course would take place and 
he gave details of a venue she knew. She said she sought further reassurance about the 
venue and afterwards she didnt see any details of the sites from which T operates. The 
solicitor suggested there had been sharp practice and said the statement from Mr Ds 
girlfriend made it clear what had transpired during the meeting and this should not be 
overruled by documentation. He also referenced negative online reviews of T.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
There is not suggestion that the debtor-creditor-supplier chain is broken and so I will 
consider if there was either misrepresentation or a breach of contract.
The paperwork I have seen does not suggest any misrepresentation, but as the solicitor has 
pointed out he believes it have occurred with misleading information being provided by the 
representative. I have read Mr Ds girlfriends statement and have done so in the wider 
context of Mr Ds relatively frequent contact with Carnegie.
It is clear he was struggling to make the payments on the loan and often missed these. He 
was in arrears from close to the outset. In his complaint Mr D has said that he had to return 
to his homeland due to a family illness. He didnt let Carnegie know of this in his frequent 
calls.  He did say he had lost his job and was struggling to meet his payments and he was 
thinking of returning home. 
Over the following 15 months the calls are about his financial situation and what he can pay 
and when. It was only in July 2018 that he mentioned the location of the training venue. He 
carried on making some payments and then in January 2019 he said T had stopped trading. 
Some six months later a complaint was made. The history of events does not sit easily with 
the complaint of misrepresentation. I would have expected Mr D to raise his concerns much 
earlier than he did. 
In the circumstances I dont consider the claims made by Mr D and by his girlfriend are 
sufficient to allow me to conclude that his complaint should be upheld. It is clear that the 
location of the training was important and I find it surprising that this was not explored in 
further detail. I appreciate Mr D suggests he didnt receive the relevant paperwork with 
details of the venues, but I would have expected he and his girlfriend would have sought 
more evidence regarding location before signing the agreement.I also note that T offered to move him on to a course which might better suit his 
requirements, but Mr D has not, as far as I am aware, explored or taken up this offer. 
The solicitor has also complained about the response to the complaint and has queried 
Carnegies approach. I would explain that complaint handling is not a regulated activity 
which falls within my remit. I can of course consider the substance of the complaint and I 
cannot see that it has done anything inappropriate in addressing Mr Ds concerns. 
While I have noted the negative reviews I must decide the complaint on the facts of this case 
and they are such that cannot uphold it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman