DRN-4340951
The complaint
Mr H complains that Quilter Financial Services Ltd failed to provide him with appropriate 
advice about making contributions to his pension savings.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2023. In that decision I explained 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what Quilter needed to do in order to put 
things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, for 
completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr H had a long-standing relationship with a financial advisor. The firm of that advisor 
was acquired by Quilter in 2019. And following the retirement of his previous advisor, 
Mr H started a relationship with a new advisor in late 2020. Mr H received advice 
from Quilter regarding investments that he held in an ISA, a general investment 
account, and a personal pension.
It seems that Mr H considers the service he has received from the new advisor to be 
poor in a number of areas. And he has made other complaints to Quilter about the 
services he has received. I am not dealing with those complaints here. In this 
decision I am only dealing with Mr Hs complaint about Quilter failing to recommend 
that he make contributions to his personal pension.
Mr H received advice from Quilter in a number of written reports that followed review 
meetings he held with his advisor. Those meetings took place either face to face, by 
telephone, or by videocall. Quilter doesnt hold recordings or transcripts of the 
meetings, but has provided us with copies of the advice reports that were sent to 
Mr H.
The reports generally say that Mr Hs pension savings were in scope for the advice 
he was receiving. And they note that Quilter has considered Mr Hs income tax 
position and how to make best use of any allowances that are available to him. But 
there is no specific advice in any of the reports regarding making pension 
contributions.
Given the lack of evidence in the suitability reports about Mr H making further 
pension contributions, Quilter asked its advisor to provide additional information 
about whether that issue had been discussed with Mr H. The advisor says that the 
issue was discussed with Mr H each year, but Mr H declined to make any additional 
pension contributions. Mr H says that no discussions of that nature took place and 
that he was unaware, following his retirement, that he could continue to contribute to 
his pension savings.
Mr Hs relationship with the advisor from Quilter, that forms the basis of this 
complaint, commenced when he signed the Client Service Agreement in November 
2020. I therefore think that any findings I make below should only apply from that 
date. That means that the initial tax year affected by Mr Hs complaint is 2020-2021.
As Ive said in my introduction, the advice was discussed with Mr H in face to face, 
telephone, and video meetings. There arent any recordings, or transcripts, of those 
meetings so I can never know for certain what was discussed. And there is a marked 
difference between the recollections of Mr H and those of Quilter, about the content 
of the discussions. But I do have copies of the reports that were produced for Mr H 
as a formal summary of the advice he received. I think it would be reasonable to 
expect, certainly in terms of good industry practice, for those reports to fairly reflect 
all the discussions that took place, not just those that resulted in Mr H accepting the 
advice being provided.
Those reports clearly indicate that a discussion of Mr Hs pension arrangements 
should be considered to be in-scope. And I think the additional references to reviews 
of Mr Hs personal tax position, and in some reports specifically mentioning pension 
contributions in that regard, further indicate that Mr H could reasonably expect advice 
from Quilter about any potential future pension contributions in addition to a review of 
the performance of his existing pension investments.
I have carefully considered the limited testimony that has been provided by Quilters 
advisor about any discussions of this nature. I am not persuaded that it would be 
reasonable to rely on that testimony, in the absence of any other documentary 
evidence to indicate future pension contributions were discussed. I am however 
persuaded by Mr Hs testimony that these matters werent discussed. He has 
explained why he thought he would be unable to continue making pension 
contributions after his retirement. I think it was for Quilter to correct that 
misunderstanding and advise Mr H appropriately.
Since making his complaint Mr H has made the maximum pension contributions he is 
permitted each year. I think that further underlines that it was the missing or incorrect 
advice from Quilter that dissuaded Mr H from making contributions in the earlier 
years. I have seen nothing to suggest that any change in Mr Hs financial 
circumstances made funds available recently to make these pension contributions 
that would not have been available in 2021 or 2022.
In response to our investigators assessment, Quilter has said that Mr H might have 
found making pension contributions unattractive since he could only receive 25% of 
those contributions as tax free income. I accept that to be the case, but even the 
most rudimentary calculations would have told Mr H that, assuming his pension 
income was taxed at the basic rate, the net amount he would receive would be 
greater than the net contribution he had paid. And of course there are other 
advantages to pension savings. They do not generally form part of a consumers 
estate for inheritance tax purposes  inheritance tax was an issue that Quilter had 
noted was something for Mr H to address. And any growth of pensions savings would 
not attract any liability for capital gains tax.
It seems clear that Mr H is keen to manage his savings in the most tax efficient 
manner. He has sought and received advice from Quilter about making use of his 
annual ISA allowances, and in mitigating some of his capital gains tax liabilities. So it 
seems to me that it would be unlikely that Mr H would dismiss any advice about 
making further pension contributions if the benefits of those had been sufficiently 
explained.
So on balance I think it reasonable to conclude that Quilter failed to provide Mr H with 
any advice about making further pension contributions. Or, even if I accept the 
advisors recollections that they were discussed (which for clarity I do not), I think that any discussion would have been insufficient for Mr H to understand the benefits of 
making those pension contributions. So I think that Quilter has made an error here 
and needs to take steps to put things right.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Both Mr H and Quilter have provided me with their responses. Although 
I am only summarising here what each party has said, I want to reassure them that I have 
read, and carefully considered, their entire responses.
Quilter has said that it doesnt agree with my provisional decision, but that it has no other 
comments or evidence to provide. So, in order to draw a line under the matter, Quilter says it 
is willing to pay Mr H the £1,440 in tax relief that he has missed out on, plus an additional 
£300 for his inconvenience. But it says that it is now disengaging with Mr H as its client, and 
isnt willing to provide him with any further assistance or advice.
Mr H accepted my provisional findings, but had some reservations about how I had 
proposed things should be put right. He said that previously he had been told by his 
financial advisor that he couldnt make any pension contributions in excess of his annual 
earnings (or the £3,600 limit if he had no relevant income). So he wondered whether the 
previous advice he had received had been correct given my directions for the redress Quilter 
should pay. And Mr H was concerned about whether my decision would be binding on 
Quilter or whether the firm would be able to make payment of the compensation contingent 
on its provision of other services to Mr H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, in deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the 
law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully 
considered the submissions that have been made by Mr H and by Quilter. Where the 
evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the 
surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have 
happened.
And I repeat my reflections on the role of this service. This service isnt intended to regulate 
or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer and a 
business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the business to 
put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position they would 
have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I think that Quilters response to my provisional findings allay many of the concerns that Mr H 
expressed in his response. Whilst he might be disappointed that Quilter has decided to 
terminate its relationship with him, it means that the compensation he receives will not be 
affected by any future investment decisions he takes. I would assume that Quilter will follow 
a reasonable process when ending its relationship with Mr H, and in line with the terms and 
conditions he agreed when he engaged the firm. But should Mr H be unhappy with that 
process I am sure he will make those concerns known to Quilter, and if necessary refer them 
to us.
Ultimately it is for Mr H to be satisfied that he can make the pension contributions I have 
suggested. That would be something he might need to discuss further, either with a new advisor or with HMRC. Should those discussions conclude that he cannot make the pension 
contributions then there is little I can do in order to provide him with the IHT protection that 
he lost by not making the pension contributions earlier. But Quilters offer does mean that he 
will receive a cash payment equal to the tax relief he has lost by not making those pension 
contributions in earlier years. I think that this leads to a fair outcome for this complaint, so 
I have modified my redress accordingly to ensure the payment is made to Mr H irrespective 
of whether he makes the additional pension contributions.
Putting things right
I have concluded that Quilter failed to provide Mr H with sufficient advice about his ability to 
make pension contributions in tax years 2020-2021 and 2021-2022.
Quilter has agreed to make a payment to Mr H of £1,440 to reflect the tax relief he has lost 
through not making those contributions. That amount should be paid to Mr H promptly 
following his acceptance of this final decision.
Quilter should also pay an additional sum of £300 to Mr H for the inconvenience he has been 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Quilter Financial Services Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman