DRN-3215528
The complaint
Mr D complains about the time it took Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share 
Dealing to execute a buy order he placed through his account.
What happened
On the afternoon of 23 December 2020 Mr D used his account with IWeb to place a buy 
order for £20,000 worth of shares in a fund managed by another investment provider. He 
received acknowledgement that the order would be placed on the next available valuation 
point for this fund. There was also a separate confirmation of the trade request which said 
the order would be placed the next working day. Mr D thought this would be 24 December 
2020 which was the next day, however the order wasnt placed until 29 December 2020. 
Mr D complained about the delay saying it had cost him shares in the fund as the price had 
moved over those days. IWeb issued a final response saying that the fund manager didnt 
issue or redeem any units on 24 December 2020 and that 29 December 2020 was the next 
available valuation point, so thats when the order was placed. Whilst investigating the 
complaint IWeb gave Mr D some incorrect information for which they have apologised and 
offered a payment of £50. 
Remaining unhappy Mr D brought his complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They thought that IWeb hadnt done anything 
wrong by executing the order on 29 December 2020 as this was the next day trading in the 
fund was allowed. Mr D disagreed saying the order shouldve been placed on 24 December 
2020 as that was a working day for both IWeb and the Stock Exchange. Mr D asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint, so it has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has provided a comprehensive account of his complaint and its clear how strongly he 
feels about what happened. Im sorry to hear about the passing of Mr Ds wife and its clear 
this complaint has added to his worry and upset at an already difficult time. I know Mr D has 
been in ill health which has also made dealing with this issue challenging for him. I want to 
assure Mr D that Ive read and considered everything hes provided even if I dont mention it 
all in detail. Ive summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature of this 
service. 
Mr D has said that the standard definition of next working day is the following weekday that 
is not a bank holiday. And that because IWeb was open for business on 24 December 2020 
he could reasonably have expected his order to be placed that day, which was the next day 
after he had placed the order. 
However it is not IWeb that controls trading days in particular funds as these are set by the 
fund manager, who are a separate business. Ive looked at the information from the fund 
manager about the particular fund Mr D wanted to buy units in and Im satisfied that 
24 December 2020 was not a trading day for that fund. So it wasnt possible for IWeb to 
execute Mr Ds order that day. The next available valuation point and trading day was 
29 December 2020 which is when the order was placed. 
When placing the order IWeb referred Mr D to the Key Investor Information Document (KIID) 
for the fund in which he wanted to invest and said he should read it. The KIID says, in part: A 
full list of the days on which Shares in the Fund cannot be sold is available on the fund 
website. So I think the KIID makes clear that there are days when trades are not possible.
Mr D says that had IWeb made the calendar information from the fund manager more 
explicit he would have been able to make a more informed decision about the trade. IWeb 
are an execution only service and so dont offer advice. It is up to Mr D to decide what trades 
he wants to place and when he places them. If Mr D was unsure about any of the details in 
the KIID he couldve made further enquiries. 
Neither the fund manager nor IWeb have historic calendar information about trading days so 
Ive relied on a 2021 calendar, along with all the other information provided, when coming to 
a decision. Having done so Im satisfied IWeb acted fairly and reasonably when actioning 
Mr Ds trade request on 29 December 2020. This was the next trading day and valuation 
point after Mr D placed his order. Mr D says he suffered a financial loss during the time 
between when the order was placed and when it was executed, however I dont think this 
was because of any errors on the part of IWeb.
When looking into what happened IWeb gave Mr D some incorrect information and wasnt as 
clear as they couldve been when talking about the timeline of events. To apologise they 
offered Mr D £50. Having looked at everything Im satisfied the offer of £50 is fair and 
reasonable payment for the trouble caused.
 
Putting things right
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing should pay Mr D £50 for the 
inconvenience caused by giving him incorrect information when looking into what happened. 
My final decision
Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing has already made an offer of 
£50 to settle this complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.  
So my decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing should 
pay Mr D £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman