DRN-3428283
The complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to help him when he fell victim 
to an investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2019, Mr G was sadly the victim of a 
scam. He was in contact with a company Ill refer to as T. T encouraged him to invest with 
their trading platform and Mr G was advised by their staff. He had access to a platform 
where he could see his account online. 
In 2019 Mr G made a number of payments that he believed were going to T. Mr G also made 
further payments on a credit card of his, but this complaint is solely about the payments that 
came from his Barclays current account. 
In total Mr G paid over £11,000 from his current account. In November 2019 Mr G says he 
discovered that T werent regulated. He asked T if he could close his account and have his 
money returned. T then ceased all contact and his online access disappeared. Mr G 
concluded hed been the victim of a scam.  
Mr G asked Barclays to help him get his money back. Barclays initially raised a chargeback 
for two of the payments and Mr Gs account was credited with temporary refunds. It appears 
that one of those refunds remained in the account (the payment this related to was for 
around £1,033 which went to a separate merchant S). But Barclays later declined to pursue 
the other chargeback further and the corresponding credit was re-debited. When this 
happened Barclays made an error and took an additional amount of around £96 from Mr Gs 
account. Whilst the complaint was with our service Barclays offered to refund the £96.12 and 
to pay Mr G £150 compensation for any distress and inconvenience hed suffered. 
One of our Investigators didnt think Barclays needed to do more. In summary she didnt 
think that Barclays decision to not further pursue the chargeback was unfair. She also didnt 
think they reasonably should have prevented the payments at the times they were made and 
she concluded the refund and compensation offered was fair. Mr G disagrees, he says hes 
an innocent victim of a scam and he believes Barclays should refund him in full. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for similar reasons. 
I know this will be disappointing for Mr G, so Ill explain why. Id like to start by saying I 
accept that Mr G has been the victim of a cruel and callous scam. And I dont think he has 
acted negligently here, but my role requires that I consider whether there are errors by 
Barclays which caused or contributed to his loss. 
I dont think any of the payments Mr G made from his account as a result of the scam would 
have appeared so unusual or out of character that Id have expected Barclays to have 
intervened at the time they were made. Ive not seen any regulatory warnings that were in 
place at the relevant times and several of the payments were to merchants other than T 
(who Mr G believed he was exclusively dealing with). Ive taken into account both Mr Gs 
previous account activity and Barclays obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act 
in their customers best interests when reaching this conclusion. Overall, I dont think 
Barclays had any reason to interfere in the payments at the times they were made, so they 
couldnt reasonably have prevented Mr Gs loss in this way. 
In November 2019 Mr G first made Barclays aware that he thought hed been the victim of a 
scam. Many of the payments in question appeared on Mr Gs statement in the name of a 
company Ill refer to as B. Mr G says he had no dealings with B and that throughout he had 
been dealing with T. He does say at certain times T changed their name, but essentially it 
was the same people. 
Chargeback is a voluntary scheme and Barclays are bound by the card scheme operators 
(Visa in this case) rules. Being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically entitle the payer to 
a refund through the chargeback scheme. In this case the relevant payments went to B 
(albeit as a result of the scammers tricking Mr G as he believed he was paying T). But this 
means that a chargeback would only have been possible against B as they were the 
merchant that received the payments. 
Barclays arent able to apply discretion and there are strict rules about the evidence required 
by the scheme provider for a successful chargeback. The nature of Mr Gs claim is that he 
was the victim of a scam which isnt something covered under the scheme. The only 
potential avenue for success under the chargeback scheme would have involved Mr G 
providing a dated screenshot showing an available balance in his account (with B) along with 
a dated withdrawal request for the same day. I appreciate Mr G has submitted some email 
evidence to support that he was having problems making withdrawals from T. But nothing 
that meets the requirements of the chargeback scheme rules or that relates to B the 
merchant involved in the chargeback. Mr G was never going to be able to provide this 
evidence as, by his own admission, he didnt have a relationship with B as he believed hed 
been dealing exclusively with T. 
It also seems that the evidence provided by B (in response to the chargeback) supports that 
they did what was asked of them, that is they converted Mr Gs payments into crypto-
currency and sent them on to the wallet address provided. So, I dont think Barclays 
concluding that the chargeback would have likely failed even if taken further was an 
unreasonable conclusion. Ive also not seen any evidence to support or persuade me that B 
were linked to T. It seems to be the case that Mr G was tricked by the scammers into making 
a payment to a legitimate crypto-currency exchange.
Even if Mr G had been paying T directly (or if there were evidence to support an established 
relationship between B and T), he still wouldnt have been able to provide the evidence that 
the chargeback scheme requires. 
Part of Mr Gs own submissions say: at that time it would have been absolutely impossible 
to give evidence or a screenshot of my account, simply because that once they [T] realised 
they could not get anymore money from me, they closed my platform So based on this I 
dont think Mr G was ever going to be able to provide the evidence required for a successful 
chargeback. And the nature of the required evidence is that it cant be obtained retrospectively. Overall, I dont think Barclays should have done more to further pursue a 
chargeback.
Barclays raised a chargeback in relation to the £4,000 payment made to B that appears on 
Mr Gs statement dated 27 March 2019. There were other payments to B which totalled a 
further £3,500. Mr G believes that a chargeback should have also been raised in relation to 
these payments. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think this has made a difference. 
Given that the chargebacks to B were destined to fail, I dont think the fact that Barclays 
didnt raise chargebacks for the other payments makes a difference. The outcome would 
most likely have been the same even if they had. The only option to try to recover these 
debit card payments was the chargeback scheme. I appreciate that Barclays have said that 
they closed the claim because Mr G hadnt responded to them in time (when theyd shared 
Bs response to the first presentment). But again, this doesnt make a difference as there 
wasnt a chargeback with a reasonable prospect of succeeding under the Visa rules in the 
first place. The chargeback scheme only provides limited protection and a chargeback can 
only be made to the merchant that receives the payment. Even if Mr G had been paying T 
directly (or if there were evidence to support an established relationship between B and T), 
he still wouldnt have been able to provide the evidence that the chargeback scheme 
requires. 
Mr G says that he made some payments towards the same scam from another account he 
holds outside the UK. And that bank provided him with a full refund. Im pleased Mr G was 
able to obtain at least some redress, but another bank making a refund, doesnt obligate 
Barclays to do so even if the circumstances are broadly similar. Mr G has also shared that 
he was the victim of a further scam beyond the events described above and in that case, 
Barclays did provide him with a full refund. Again, Im pleased that Mr G didnt lose out in 
that situation, but it also doesnt mean Barclays have to do more in relation to the payments 
involved in this complaint. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Barclays should have done more at the time Mr G made the 
payments  I dont think they reasonably could have known he was in the process of or at 
risk of being scammed. And I also dont think there were any errors by Barclays which 
resulted in a failure to recover his funds once the scam had come to light. 
Barclays accept that as a result of an error they took back an additional £96.12 when re-
debiting the temporary credit. They have offered to refund this along with a payment of £150 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. Im satisfied that this is fair 
compensation for the impact of any service failings by Barclays in the circumstances of this 
complaint and that it takes into account the time Mr G has been without the additional 
£96.12. If these amounts havent already been paid, Mr G should take this up with Barclays. 
I appreciate this whole episode has had quite an impact on Mr G. But it wouldnt be fair for 
me to require Barclays to compensate him for all the distress hes been through, the majority 
of which is the fault of those who perpetrated the scam.  
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 Richard Annandale
Ombudsman