DRN-4029749
The complaint
Miss R complains about the delays in Metro Bank PLC transferring her 5-year fixed rate
cash ISA to a stocks and shares ISA with a third-party ISA provider (who I will call G).
What happened
In mid-December 2020 Miss R requested that G arrange the transfer of her 5-year fixed rate
cash ISA from Metro Bank into her stocks and share ISA with G. The cash from the ISA
wasnt transferred until mid-February 2021 and then took over a week to be credited to her
account with G.
Between February 2021 and March 2022 Miss R made several complaints to Metro Bank
about the delay and the way the transfer request had been handled. In summary, Miss R
was unhappy that Metro Bank:
Didnt act on the transfer request it was sent by G in December 2020 or the 
numerous chaser emails until 9 February 2021.
Rejected the request because the form didnt make clear that she wanted to transfer 
the ISA immediately rather than waiting until the end of the fixed rate term.
Told her she couldnt close her account early unless she was in hardship.
Didnt include the interest when it eventually transferred the cash to G.
Didnt include the account reference when it sent the cash to G, which delayed the 
money being credited to her stocks and shares ISA.
Asked her for proof of her losses and after shed taken the time to provide this, said it 
wouldnt compensate her for these.
There were numerous other issues raised over the year or so Miss R was in contact with
Metro Bank about her concerns, but in the interests of brevity, Ive picked out what I consider
to be the main points above. Miss R wants Metro Bank to compensate her for the loss of
investment opportunity caused by the delay  she says this is around £6,000.
In response to Miss Rs complaints, Metro Bank seems to have accepted it was responsible, 
at least in part, for the delays in transferring the ISA. After her initial complaint, it credited her
account with £50 to acknowledge the upset shed been caused. But it eventually said it
wasnt prepared to compensate Miss R for her loss of investment opportunity.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and explained why I thought this 
complaint should be upheld and that Metro Bank should pay Miss R a further £700 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her. I said:
The delay in the ISA being transferred
It shouldnt take any longer than 15 working days for a cash ISA to be transferred. It clearly
took longer than this for Miss Rs ISA to be transferred  G received her transfer form on
17 December 2020 and the bulk of the cash didnt get credited to her stocks and shares ISA
until 26 February 2021 (with the interest being transferred and credited a few days later).
G says it sent the ISA transfer form to Metro Bank by recorded delivery on 18 December
2020, but it cant provide evidence of this, and Metro Bank says it wasnt received. But G did
send several follow up emails to Metro Bank starting from 31 December 2020. The first four
of these emails were sent to individual members of staff, rather than the correct mailbox but
Metro Bank appears to accept that at least the first of these emails was received. It also
accepted, in its submissions to this service, that it should have at least acknowledged that
email, even though it wasnt sent to the correct mailbox. Presumably, by acknowledged, it
means it should have told either G or Miss R that it had been sent to the wrong address. And
had it done that, its likely G would have sent a further email to the right email address.
Metro Bank didnt take any action until 9 February 2021 when G sent an email to the correct
mailbox. So there was a delay of over a month that was caused by Metro Bank not doing
anything when it received the email from G on 31 December 2020. I know previously Metro
Bank has said it rejected the transfer request when it received it on 31 December 2020 but
from everything Ive seen, I dont think this did happen  I dont think anything happened at
that time.
Metro Bank did initially reject the transfer request on 9 February 2021 as the form didnt
make it clear if Miss R wanted the ISA to be transferred straightaway or whether she wanted
to wait until the end of the term of the fixed rate ISA. I know Miss R thinks the answer to this
should have been obvious, but I do think it was reasonable for Metro Bank to check she was
aware of the penalty for ending the ISA early, before it did anything. In the end, this didnt
take long to resolve  Miss R confirmed on the phone on 10 February 2021 that she wanted
the ISA transferred straightaway.
The cash in the ISA was transferred to G on 17 February 2021. It took G over a week to find
it and credit the money to Miss Rs account, as it says Metro Bank didnt include the
reference. Metro Bank says it did include the reference, but I can see the email it sent to G
with the transfer history form didnt include the full reference Metro Bank had been given by
G. This may have caused problems in G locating the money and its likely it contributed to
the delay in the funds being credited to Miss Rs account.
Some of the interest that had accrued on Miss Rs account was transferred to G around a
week later. From what Metro Bank has said, it isnt clear what the usual process is  in its
submissions to us and the response it sent to Miss Rs initial complaint, it said this interest
should have been included when the rest of the balance of the ISA was transferred, but in
another response said it only transferred this as a gesture of goodwill. Considering 
everything that happened, this wasnt a major issue as, even if it should have been
transferred with the rest of the money, it did get corrected quite quickly. But the response
Metro Bank has given about this issue illustrates the inconsistent answers it has given
Miss R.
Overall, I dont currently have evidence to show its more likely than not Metro Bank received
the ISA transfer form by post from G. But Im satisfied it should have acted when it got the
email from G on 31 December 2020. If it had done so, the ISA is likely to have been
transferred by the middle of January 2021 at the latest.
The service Miss R received from Metro Bank
Having looked through all the correspondence between Miss R and Metro Bank thats been
sent to us by both parties, its clear to me that the service shes received hasnt been
acceptable. Shes been given the wrong information at times  like being told she couldnt
end the ISA early unless she was in hardship. And the different answers shes been given to
her complaints have been contradictory and confusing. For example, Metro Bank said:It hadnt received the earlier emails from G and then said it had received the one sent 
on 31 December 2020.
It had rejected the transfer request on 31 December 2020  it doesnt appear it did.
It made a mistake by not sending the interest at the same time as the rest of the 
money but then said it only did that as a gesture of goodwill.
All of these issues have caused Miss R unnecessary inconvenience and distress.
Metro Bank also gave Miss R the impression it would consider further compensation for lost
investment opportunities. After Miss R had provided some information that she says shows
her losses, Metro Bank said it couldnt be held responsible for her loss of opportunity. This
also caused Miss R inconvenience and distress.
Putting things right
I havent gone into too much detail above setting out what went wrong here as Metro Bank
already accepts it didnt deal with things as it should have. But to be clear, Im satisfied it:
a) Delayed Miss Rs ISA being transferred to G and the funds being credited to her 
account with G.
b) Provided a poor service to Miss R throughout this matter.
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business 
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Miss R in
the position she would now be in if Metro Bank had transferred the ISA sooner. However,
this isnt straightforward in this case.
Metro Bank says its terms and conditions say it wont pay compensation for loss of profit or
opportunity. But I dont think it would be fair to apply those terms in these circumstances, if
Miss R could clearly demonstrate she had made a financial loss because of the delay in the
ISA being transferred.
Miss R has provided us and Metro Bank with the statements for her stocks and shares ISA
from 18 December 2020 and 17 February 2021. She says these show she made a profit of
over £6,700 in the relevant period and had the funds from Metro Bank been transferred in
December, she could have duplicated her holdings and made the same overall profit.
While I understand the point Miss R is making, I dont agree with her that shes lost £6,700
because of the delay. She accepts the statements only show a snapshot in time and no loss
or gain is actualised on holding a position in shares until they are sold. And I think this is a
key point. The cash from Miss Rs Metro Bank ISA would never have been credited to her
stocks and shares ISA on 18 December 2020, even if Metro Bank hadnt caused any delays.
So the value of her shareholdings on that date isnt relevant.
As Ive explained above, I cant say Metro Bank should have acted any sooner than
31 December 2020. And it can take up to 15 working days for a cash ISA to be transferred.
So if everything had gone as it should have, I think its likely the cash would have been
credited to Miss Rs account with G at some point in the middle of January 2021.
The value of Miss Rs shareholdings on 17 February 2021 also isnt relevant, as she still
didnt have the cash from Metro Bank to invest until 26 February 2021. By this point, as
Miss R has explained, and from what Ive seen of the US markets at that time (where Miss R
predominantly invested), the market environment had changed. If I were to see a statement
from 26 February 2021, its likely it would show the value of Miss Rs shareholdings was
lower than it had been on 17 February 2021.Any gains or losses would be over the period from the middle of January until 26 February
2021. But even then, these would only be notional without evidence to suggest Miss R would
have switched all her holdings to cash on that day  and as this complaint only exists
because Miss R was seeking invest her cash holding in stocks, I find that unlikely.
I think this illustrates the difficulty in quantifying what losses, if any, Miss R suffered because
of the delay in transferring her ISA. Its possible it would have cost less to duplicate Miss Rs
existing shareholdings by the time her money went into her account with G, than it would
have done in January 2021  at least, based on the information available to me, its not
possible to say it would have cost more and therefore Miss R has lost out. And I know,
from what Miss R has said, given the changes in the market, she didnt end up duplicating
what she already had anyway.
Having carefully considered whether I can make any award for financial loss in this case, I
currently dont think it is possible to calculate what loss, if any, Miss R has suffered. Its not
possible to say how Miss R would have invested had the transfer happened sooner, and
while the statements shes provided show her shareholdings increased in value between
December and February, this isnt enough to show she has lost money because of the delay.
However, I do think Miss R should be compensated for the distress she was caused by not
being able to invest sooner. She was clearly keen for the money to hit her stocks and shares
ISA, at a time when prices were generally going up. It would have been frustrating to see this
and not be able to do anything. The upset caused by the delay in the cash being transferred,
was added to with Metro Bank giving Miss R wrong information about whether she could
even end her ISA early. It also suggested it would have to send the money by cheque to G,
which would have exacerbated matters even further when Miss R was so anxious to have it
available to trade.
As Ive also set out, Metro Bank didnt handle Miss Rs concerns particularly well. I think this
will have caused additional distress and inconvenience as the incorrect and conflicting
information it gave to her led to her complaint continuing for much longer than it should have.
Overall, having considered both the impact on Miss R of the delays in the ISA transfer and
the poor service Metro Bank provided her, I currently think £700 would be fair compensation 
for the significant distress and inconvenience Miss R has been caused. This is in addition to
the £50 Metro Bank has already paid Miss R.
Metro Bank said in one of its responses it didnt deduct the penalty charges for ending the
fixed rate ISA early. It says these should have totalled around £213. From what Ive seen
and my calculations, Im not persuaded this was the case. But if Metro Bank can provide
evidence of this in response to this provisional decision, I will allow it to deduct this amount
from the £700 Ive awarded.
Metro Bank responded to confirm it accepted my provisional decision. Miss R didnt think 
£700 was enough compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed suffered because 
of the poor service shed received from Metro Bank. She also still thinks she should receive 
compensation for the loss of investment opportunity. In summary, she said:
Id left some of the bigger picture unaddressed  Metro Bank advertises itself as 
putting the customer first and her experience shows this isnt true. She was blocked 
from direct contact with staff dealing with her transfer request and her attempts to 
contact more senior staff at Metro Bank werent ever responded to. It was only due to 
her perseverance that she managed to speak to someone in the ISA team and was 
able to set in motion the transfer.
There were issues with the way Metro Bank dealt with her complaints. Calls werent 
returned, Metro Bank refused to give her copies of her own accounts so she could get to the bottom of why the transfer hadnt happened, and she was given the wrong 
information. It is this lack of communication and respect for her that is at the heart of 
her complaint. 
She still contests the right of Metro Bank to question and refuse her ability to 
understand the consequences of a legal contact shed signed. No rational person 
would be asking for a transfer of their ISA funds on maturity in 2024 by sending 
signed transfer instructions in 2020.
The hours of time spent dealing with this matter seriously sapped her energy and 
health (both mental and physical) and it has significantly detracted from her time 
progressing her own professional work and income. Such damage to her wellbeing 
and finances is hard to quantify, which is why she chose to focus on her more 
demonstrable loss of opportunity of using her ISA funds for financial gain.
Although I have allowed a more generous time frame for an ISA transfer to take 
place, she suggests it should have gone through by 5 January 2021 (based on the 
request being received on 21 December 2020). She is happy to provide me with 
statements for her stocks and shares ISA showing her funds on 5 January 2021 
stood at around £26,500 and increased to around £32,000 by 16 February 2021.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised Miss Rs further submissions above, but I assure her Ive carefully read and 
considered everything shes sent in response to my provisional decision. And Ive 
reconsidered all the previous information weve been sent by both parties. Having done so, 
my decision remains the same as that set out in my provisional decision. I still think £700 
(plus the £50 already paid by Metro Bank) is fair compensation for the impact on Miss R of 
the delays in the ISA transfer and the poor service she received from Metro Bank.
I agree with Miss R about the difficulties she experienced in speaking to the right people at 
Metro Bank. A lot of her frustration was caused by speaking to different people who couldnt 
personally do what needed to be done to get the ISA transfer moving. And the way Metro 
Bank dealt with Miss Rs complaints has been unsatisfactory and has caused additional 
inconvenience to her. While I didnt go into detail about these specific issues in my 
provisional decision, they were something Id considered when I concluded the service 
Miss R had received was poor. And they were factored in when deciding how much 
compensation to award.
I remain of the opinion it was reasonable for Metro Bank to check with Miss R before starting 
the transfer process. I do understand her point that no one would ask to transfer an ISA four 
years before they wanted it to be transferred. But as there was a penalty for ending the 
fixed-rate ISA early, I think it was prudent for Metro Bank to make sure Miss R was aware of 
this. While she may have been fully aware of the terms of the account, not everyone is and 
often people forget. Its better for Metro Bank to check this before doing anything, than have 
people upset when they realise theyve incurred penalty charges theyd forgotten about and 
its not possible to reinstate the fixed rate account.
The timescale for transferring a cash ISA I referred to in my provisional decision was based 
on the ISA transfer rules, which say ISA transfers should take no longer than 15 working 
days for transfers between cash ISAs. While Miss Rs was a transfer from a cash ISA to a 
stocks and shares ISA, its reasonable to expect it to take a similar time. Its possible Miss Rs ISA might have been transferred quicker than that if Metro Bank had acted on her 
instruction as it should have. But if it had taken 15 working days then that would still have 
been within the timescales set out in the rules.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I havent seen evidence that shows Metro Bank 
received anything relating to Miss Rs ISA request before 31 December 2020. So I cant say 
Metro Bank should have acted any sooner than 31 December 2020. Miss R has suggested 
her ISA could have been transferred by 5 January 2021  two working days later. I think this 
is unlikely. And while I thank Miss R for her offer to provide statements for her stocks and 
shares ISA for 5 January 2021 and 17 February 2021, as I explained in my provisional 
decision, any profit (or loss) is only notional given Mrs R is more likely than not to have 
maintained her stock holding rather than crystalising the position. So, I dont think these 
would be helpful to quantify any actual financial loss Miss R might have suffered. 
Miss R doesnt think the compensation Ive awarded is enough. I remain of the opinion that a 
total of £750 is fair compensation in all the circumstances of this complaint. I consider 
compensation of this amount is fair where the impact of a mistake (or mistakes) has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry and/or significant inconvenience and disruption. I 
think this fairly describes Miss Rs experience as a result of Metro Banks errors.
In response to my provisional decision Metro Bank made no comment about whether it had 
deducted the penalty charges or not from the amount it transferred to the stocks and shares 
ISA. It accepted my provisional decision that it should pay Miss R £700 compensation. 
Therefore there shouldnt be any deductions from the £700.
My final decision
For the reasons set out here, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. Metro Bank PLC must pay Miss R £700 for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2023. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman