DRN-1433306
 
The complaint
Ms M says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk lent to her 
irresponsibly. She says that the lending trapped her into a debt spiral and it was 
irresponsible to continue to lend to her. She also thinks that it didnt make adequate checks 
before lending. She thinks that Moneyboat didnt respond adequately when she informed it 
about her financial problems. 
What happened
This complaint is about two short term loans MoneyBoat provided to Ms M in January and 
February 2019. Some of the information MoneyBoat has provided about the lending is 
below. 
loan number date startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(months)date ended
1 02/01/2019 £200.00 5 09/01/2018
2 05/02/2019 £500.00 6 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think that MoneyBoat was wrong to 
approve any of the lending. And it hadnt acted incorrectly when Ms M had informed it that 
she was in financial difficulty. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms M 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ms complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms 
complaint and Ive explained why below.
why I think MoneyBoats checks were proportionate
For loan 1 Ms M needed to repay around £70 over the next five months. She repaid this loan 
relatively quickly and she took loan 2 around a month afterwards. The repayments increased 
to just under £150 a month. I understand Ms M hasnt fully repaid loan 2. 
Ive seen a record of the information Ms M provided when she completed her loan 
application. Ms M said she had a monthly income of around £1,500 and she had regular 
monthly outgoings of around £800. This left her with a disposable income of £700. So the 
loans wouldve seemed affordable to MoneyBoat.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely MoneyBoat was made aware of 
any financial problems Ms M mightve been having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate Ms M circumstances further. Ms M has provided detailed information about her 
health problems but, as far as I can see, MoneyBoat wasnt aware of these until after the 
loans had been arranged. So MoneyBoat wouldnt have factored this into its lending 
decisions. I think it was reasonable for MoneyBoat to rely on the information it obtained.
So, overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments MoneyBoat did for loans 1 and 
2 were proportionate. And I think its decisions to approve these loans were reasonable and 
Im not upholding Ms Ms complaint about the sale of them. 
what happened when Ms M couldnt repay loan 2
At the end of March 2019 Ms M contacted MoneyBoat to say she was in financial difficulty. 
From what I can see MoneyBoat responded to Ms M straight away about this and her 
account was placed on hold. 
MoneyBoat and Ms M continued to correspond and MoneyBoat did ask Ms M for further 
information. And the last contact I can see is Ms M and MoneyBoat corresponding about 
Ms Ms referral to a debt management organisation. 
But looking at all of the correspondence I think its reasonable to say that MoneyBoat acted 
quickly. I dont think it asked Ms M for any unreasonable information and it suspended the 
account within a reasonable time. Overall I dont think it acted inappropriately when dealing 
with Ms M about this issue.  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020. Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman