DRN-2291069
The complaint
Mrs F has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE has unreasonably refused to pay all of 
her claim under her pet policy.
References to Great Lakes include all its agents.
What happened
Mrs F bought her policy for her dog and it started on 9 October 2017. It provided up to 
£7,000 cover for vet fees per year and it also provided limited cover for any pre-existing 
conditions starting at £500 per year. It doesnt provide any cover for any preventative 
treatment to include dental treatment and annual vaccinations and parasite treatments.
Mrs F said she phoned Great Lakes on 29 October 2019 to enquire how much cover she 
had left as her dog required an operation. She said Great Lakes told her she had £6,321.94 
available. Mrs F consequently she went ahead with her dogs operation which was a skin 
and ear resection to prevent further infections. It cost in the region of £900.
When she made her claim Great Lakes said it would pay her £179.47 being the remainder 
she had left for her pre-existing conditions cover, as it decided the requirement for this 
operation was connected with her dogs pre-existing ear condition.
Mrs F complained and produced a letter from her vet explaining the operation. She also 
explained that she had been told by Great Lakes representative on 29 October 2019 that 
she had £6, 321.94 available. Great Lakes then said as her vet explained her dogs 
operation was a preventative treatment, its policy didnt actually provide any cover for it. It 
said however that it wouldnt ask for the return of its payment to Mrs F of £179.47.
Mrs F remained dissatisfied and brought her complaint to us. The investigator didnt think 
Great Lakes had done anything wrong.
Mrs F disagreed and so her complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mrs F is adamant and feels very strongly that she was mis-advised by Great Lakes when 
she enquired as regards the remaining amount of cover she had by telephone on 29 October 
2019.
Ive listened to that telephone recording very carefully. The Great Lakes representative 
clarifies the type of policy Mrs F which was its pre-existing cover policy. Mrs F then talks 
about her ongoing claim for her dogs ear issues and explains the vet wishes her to have an 
operation. The Great Lakes representative very clearly asks Mrs F if this is a pre-existing 
condition. Mrs F also very clearly replies that its not. And on that basis the representative 
confirms Mrs F has £6,321.94. The representative is also very clear that shes not able to 
pre-authorise claims, which I dont consider to unusual as almost all pet providers dont pre-
authorise claims as a general rule. Thats because claims are assessed on the vet history of 
the pet.
So I dont consider Mrs F was mis-advised by the Great Lakes representative on the basis it 
was Mrs F herself who said her intended claim for her dogs ears was not a pre-existing 
condition. And further its clear her claim wasnt pre-authorised in that call recording.
Ive seen the vet history for Mrs Fs dog. Its very clear that her dog sadly suffered recurrent 
ear issues and infections due to its breed type and the consequent fact her ear canals were 
very narrow and impossible to clean. There is a note as early as 3 September 2016 in the 
vet history where its recorded the vet said this to Mrs F. Mrs Fs with Great Lakes didnt start 
until 9 October 2017. Throughout the vet history there are ongoing issues with her dogs 
ears. More especially on 15 February 2017, where Mrs Fs dog was diagnosed with otitis 
bilaterally, but particularly on her left-hand side.
Mrs Fs vet wrote an undated letter following Great Lakes claim decision and said the 
following:
The surgery [dogs name] underwent on 01/04/2019 was for skin fold resection around her 
face with a view to preventing future infections here and around the ear canal.
That shows me that Mrs Fs vet believed the operation was connected to the previous ear 
issues her dog suffered and that the operation was a preventative treatment. 
In the call recording of 29 October 2019 with Great Lakes Mrs F is at pains to explain her 
dogs issues and that she has some ongoing claims and that its hopeful that this operation 
with help lessen her dogs ear issues. This shows me that Mrs F was fully aware of her dogs 
ear issues which the vet history clearly shows had been ongoing for some considerable time. 
The letter from her vet also clearly links her dogs ongoing ear issues with the operation that 
was done.
Great Lakes policy defines what it considers to be a pre-existing condition. On page 21, it 
states that it provides limited cover for vet fees caused by pre-existing conditions and 
defines pre-existing as anything your pet has had treatment, medication or advice for in 
the last 24 months. All other conditions would be new conditions. I consider that Great 
Lakes correctly identified the ear issues suffered by Mrs Fs dog as pre-existing based on 
this definition and her dogs vet history. 
It also explains how this cover works on page 22 saying the following:
In the first year of your policy you have £500 of cover for vets fees for all pre-existing
conditions. If you do not make a claim for any pre-existing conditions in your first year, the
limit increases to £1,000 for the second year. If you still do not make a claim in the second
year, the limit will increase to £7,000.
The policy also clearly states what it doesnt cover and therefore wont pay for on page 28, 
namely, We will not pay for any routine or preventative healthcare. The letter from Mrs 
Fs vet clearly shows its a preventative operation and linked to her dogs ear condition.
Therefore, its very clear to me that Mrs Fs claim for this operation was linked to her dogs 
ongoing ear issues, which pre-dated the policy start date and further that the object of this 
operation was preventative. On that basis I dont think Great Lakes did anything in refusing 
to pay her claim fully. I consider Great Lakes made an error in paying Mrs F £179.47 being the remainder of her 
cover for pre-existing conditions, given the fact that the operation was preventative 
treatment. But I consider its fair and reasonable that Great Lakes didnt want Mrs F to pay 
this back. More so because as the investigator explained it would have been more useful if 
Great Lakes representative asked Mrs F more questions in the call on 29 October 2019 as 
like him, I think then the matter would have been fully clarified at that stage. 
My role and the role of this service is to assess whether Great Lakes did anything wrong on 
the basis of the vet evidence and the terms and conditions of its policy. I dont consider it did. 
Mrs F has raised further complaints about how her complaint was handled by Great Lakes, 
however as the investigator explained this service can only adjudicate on regulated activities 
and the complaint handling aspect isnt a regulated activity so I cant comment on that.
My final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman