DRN-2732846
The complaint
Miss H says  Barclays Bank UK PLC has not properly compensated her for mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
What happened
In 2011 Miss H complained to Barclays about mis-sold PPI policies sold with a chain of 
loans.
Barclays upheld Miss Hs complaint and paid her £2,415.46.  
In 2016 Barclays carried out an audit and realised it had only compensated Miss H for PPI 
sold on two loans instead of four loans.
Barclays recalculated the compensation it owed Miss H and calculated it owed Miss H a 
further £354.36. It sent Miss H a cheque for this amount.
Miss H was no longer living at the address the cheque was sent to, so Miss H never 
received the additional £354.36 and the cheque was never cashed.
In 2020 Barclays contacted Miss H and in October 2020 sent her a new cheque for £354.36.
Miss H complained that Barclays had not added interest from 2016. Miss H was also 
unhappy that due to changes in the way PPI compensation is paid, Barclays had to deduct 
tax from the additional compensation. Miss H says that if Barclays had paid the correct 
amount in 2011 the tax would not have been deducted.
An adjudicator from this service thought Barclays should update its offer to include interest 
up to the date Miss H received the additional compensation.
Barclays told this service that it wasnt its policy to update the interest. But Barclays did offer 
Miss H £50 for the distress and inconvenience its error had caused Miss H.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.
My understanding is that Miss H has now received and cashed the cheque for £354.36.    
Miss H has also received an additional £50 from Barclays as compensation for its error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a PPI policy is found to be mis-sold this service expects the business to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in if the PPI had not been sold.
This involves refunding everything that the PPI cost the consumer. This service would also 
expect the business to pay compensatory interest of 8% simple for all the time the consumer 
has been out of pocket.
When Barclays discovered it had not correctly calculated compensation in 2011 it carried out 
a new calculation in 2016. It calculated it owed Miss H an additional £354.36. And this offer 
included compensatory interest of £133.89 (£107.13 net of tax) for the time she had been 
out of pocket. 
But Miss H didnt receive this amount in 2016 so she continued to be out of pocket. And she 
continued to be out of pocket until she received and finally cashed the cheque in 2021.
Barclays says it isnt its policy to update the interest in such cases. But Barclays should 
know this service expects a business to calculate compensatory interest from the time the 
consumer incurred the cost of the PPI up to the time they get the money back. Otherwise the 
consumer has not been properly compensated. 
So Barclays needs to recalculate the 2016 offer and make payment of the additional interest 
to Miss H.
If Barclays had made the correct offer in 2011 it would have paid the compensatory interest 
gross. It was still taxable but Miss H would have to declare it to Her Majestys Revenue & 
Customs (HMRC). But the rules have since changed meaning Barclays has to deduct tax at 
source. But if Miss H qualifies, she can claim the tax back from HMRC.
I note Barclays has offered and paid Miss H an additional £50 for its error in not calculating 
the offer correctly in 2011.
Ive thought about all this. Miss H is correct that she will now incur additional inconvenience 
in claiming the tax back from HMRC. In addition Barclays should have been aware it needs 
to calculate compensatory interest right up to the point the consumer receives their money 
back. In this case, its refusal to do so has caused Miss H additional , unnecessary delay in 
receiving her proper compensation as well as additional, needless inconvenience. So I think 
Barclays should pay an additional £50 for all the trouble and upset its errors have caused 
Miss H to experience. 
Putting things right
Barclays should recalculate its 2016 offer calculating the 8% compensatory interest up to the 
point that Miss H cashed the cheque for £354.36.
Barclays can then deduct the £354.36 it has already paid from this figure and pay Miss H the 
balance.
Barclays needs to pay Miss H  £50 compensation for the trouble and upset its errors have 
caused her to experience. (This is in addition to the £50 it has already paid)
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay 
Miss H compensation as set out in this decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman