DRN-2575193
The complaint
Miss M says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to her irresponsibly. She 
says she was in financial difficulty when she borrowed from Mr Lender. She thinks it 
should have found out about this and not lent.
Miss M also says that she asked Mr Lender not to lend to her again in 2015 and 
so it shouldnt have acted on her request to borrow again in 2018.
What happened
Our adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision saying that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld in part. A 
copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings are below in italics. 
This complaint is about three payday, and two instalment loans, Mr Lender provided to Miss 
M between September 2014 and October 2018.
loan 
numberdate takenamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 17/09/2014 £80 1 23/10/2014
2 07/11/2014 £80 1 19/12/2014
3 24/12/2014 £100 1 21/01/2015
break in lending
4 17/10/2018 £200 6 31/10/2018
5 31/10/2018 £600 6 outstanding
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She thought that Mr Lender had made 
proportionate checks before lending.
Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. In response she emphasised that she had asked 
Mr Lender not to lend to her any further in 2015.
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
issue a final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to provisionally decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending  including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. Broadly speaking, this all 
means that Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss M could 
repay their loans in a sustainable manner. Additionally, there may come a point where the lending 
history and pattern of lending itself clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Applying this to the circumstances of this particular complaint, Ive provisionally decided to partly 
uphold Miss Ms complaint and Ive explained why below.
The first three loans Miss M took were for relatively modest amounts and were started within a 
relatively short period of time.
Ive seen a record of the information Miss M provided when she completed her loan applications 
for these loans. Miss M said she had a monthly income of just over £1,000. Her monthly 
expenditure was relatively low, at around £300, it was recorded she was living at home. So the 
loans wouldve seemed affordable to Mr Lender.
I havent seen any further information that shows its likely Mr Lender was made aware of any 
financial problems Miss M mightve been having at this time. Or anything that wouldve prompted 
it to investigate Miss Ms circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely 
on the information it obtained for these first three loans.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Mr Lender did for loans 1 to 3 were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to approve these loans was reasonable and Im not 
upholding Miss Ms complaint about them.
As Miss M says after loan 3 she contacted Mr Lender and requested that it didnt lend to her any 
more. She said she was going round in circles with this type of debt and wanted to end this 
situation. Mr Lender initially acted on this request. Miss M made a number of loan applications 
very shortly after this that were declined straight away.
Going forward Miss M contacted Mr Lender again in late 2018. Mr Lender noted that Miss M had 
asked that it not lend to her in 2015 and asked her what had changed. She explained that her 
employment was precarious in 2015 but this situation had now improved.
On the face of it this isnt unreasonable. Peoples circumstances do change and Miss M may have 
been in a better position than earlier. However, I would expect the information Mr Lender obtained 
before lending to support this, but in my view it doesnt. Before lending in 2018 Miss M said she 
had other short term lending. And the credit reference agency information Mr Lender obtained 
confirmed that this was the case. So, I think Mr Lender needed to get to the bottom of this to see if 
Miss Ms situation had materially changed for the better. And I dont think it did this.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Miss Ms financial situation and I think that 
Mr Lender needed to verify the information it found out where possible. Miss M has provided some 
information about her financial circumstances which includes her bank statements. I accept that this 
isnt exactly what Mr Lender wouldve seen at the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar 
information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Miss M was having problems managing her money. She was borrowing and 
repaying significant amounts to other short term lenders. And I can also see that she was making 
payments to a number of debt recovery organisations. So, it seems reasonable to say that Miss 
Ms circumstances hadnt improved and she still was having difficulties with this type of debt.
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks. And 
I think Mr Lender wouldve seen Miss M wouldnt have been able repay loans 4 and 5 in a 
sustainable way. So I think that Mr Lender shouldnt have given loans 4 and 5 to Miss M and I 
think shes lost out as a result of this. Im therefore upholding Miss Ms complaint about loans 4 
and 5.
Mr Lender, and Miss M, received my provisional decision. Miss M agreed with what I said. 
Mr Lender didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that enough time had passed 
between loans 3 and 4 for it to be reasonable to treat Miss M as a new customer. It reiterated some information about the checks it had made before approving loans 4 and 5 
and that it thought these were enough to show the loans were affordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender disagrees with what I said. It says that as a number of years had passed since 
loan 3 ended then it was likely Miss Ms problems had alleviated when she applied for loan 
4. And the checks it did confirmed this was the case. This isnt really a new argument, but, 
for the avoidance of doubt Ill briefly comment further. 
Miss M said in 2014 she had financial problems and she lost control of her short term 
borrowing, shortly after loan 3 was repaid. She asked Mr Lender not to lend to her again. I 
recognise that there is a significant break in lending of around three years before loan 4. And 
its not unreasonable to initially think that Miss Ms finances may have improved over this 
time. 
But, as I said in my earlier decision, the information Mr Lender gathered before it approved 
loans 4 and 5 shows she was still using other short term lenders. So, as this was the case, 
its a reasonable assumption that her problems may not have gone away, despite the 
passage of time. 
I think Mr Lender should have looked into this in greater detail and performed more checks 
than it did. And if it had done these checks it wouldve seen that Miss Ms situation hadnt 
improved. 
Having looked again at everything, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached before, for 
the same reasons.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Miss M from loan 4, as Im satisfied it 
ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters 
there, not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship 
existed between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with 
others. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a 
friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly 
dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender 
would have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Miss M loans 4 and 5.
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back then Mr Lender 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M 
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they 
had been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Miss 
M having made overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender 
should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Miss M. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Miss M. Mr Lender shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal Mr Lender has already written- off.
E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if they 
ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Miss Ms complaint.
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender] should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman