DRN-4266051
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Lowell Financial Ltd has been pursuing him for debts which he 
says were the result of identity theft.
What happened
Between late 2019 and early 2020, a series of consumer credit accounts were opened in 
Mr Rs name, at an address which he is not registered at. They received little payments then 
defaulted. Four of them were sold to Lowell.
Lowell traced Mr R to the address hes resident at and wrote to him. Mr R disputed the 
debts. He explained that based on the address they were opened at, it seemed theyd been 
taken out by his ex-partner. He provided bank statements to show that he hadnt made any 
of the payments to the accounts.
After some delay, Lowell queried things with the original lenders, who were unable to 
evidence that these were Mr Rs accounts. Lowell wrote off two of the accounts. But it held 
Mr R liable for the other two, on the basis that theyd been open for some months, received a 
few payments, and there were other accounts in his name at the registered address.
Lowell then told Mr R it would close all of the accounts involved, but it later said this was a 
mistake and it would still hold him liable for two of them. It offered Mr R £175 compensation 
for this and its delays in dealing with things.
Mr R came to our service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R didnt agree, so 
the complaint was passed to me to decide. I asked for further information, and in response 
one of the remaining lenders confirmed their account was fraudulent and closed it. One 
account remains open.
I sent Mr R and Lowell a provisional decision on 28 June 2023, to explain why I thought 
the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether Lowell was entitled to pursue Mr R for these accounts, or not. To 
clarify, I am not holding Lowell liable for the original lending or anything which happened 
before it purchased the accounts  that would usually be the responsibility of the original 
lenders. Mr R may wish to complain to the original lenders separately. But Lowell is 
responsible for its own pursuing of Mr R.
Broadly speaking, the onus is on Lowell to show that it was entitled to pursue Mr R. And 
based on what Ive seen so far, I find that it did not have such an entitlement.
To summarise the evidence at hand:
The accounts were opened at an address which is not the one Mr R is registered at 
on the electoral roll, is not the one his mortgage or bank account is at, has no utility 
bills in his name, and which I cannot see any record of him being resident at.
The only accounts registered in Mr Rs name at that address are small delinquent 
credit lines, which were all opened around the same time, all defaulted, and are all 
either disputed by Mr R or have already been confirmed as being fraudulent. There is 
no historic data for Mr R at that address outside the period of the disputed/fraudulent 
accounts.
I am reasonably satisfied that this is not Mr Rs address.
The other contact details on the accounts are not the ones Mr R uses, he says he 
does not recognise them, and they do not appear to be genuine.
The only substantive correct information I can see on the accounts is Mr Rs name 
and date of birth, which would be easy for a fraudster or ex-partner to obtain.
The agreements were electronically signed, and Ive found no evidence that they 
were signed by Mr R.
No evidence has been provided of any substantial, positive credit or identity checks.
No evidence has been provided of any goods being delivered to an address which 
Mr R was actually resident at.
There does not appear to be any link between these disputed accounts and any 
genuine bank account of Mr Rs.
Mr R has provided bank statements to evidence that he neither received any money 
from, nor paid any money to these disputed accounts.
There is no evidence that Mr R was aware of these accounts before he was traced to 
his actual address  at which point he disputed them.
Neither Lowell nor any of the lenders made any confirmed contact with Mr R before 
he disputed the accounts.
The only contact that was made was with an unverified and unauthorised woman, 
which I can see prompted further concerns of fraud. 
As mentioned above, some lenders have already confirmed that their accounts were 
opened fraudulently. One lender put preventative measures in place for Mr R at 
CIFAS, the national fraud database, in recognition of him being a victim of fraud.
Lowells arguments for holding Mr R liable are poor. Just because the accounts were used 
for some months, and just because someone  apparently not Mr R  made some small 
repayments to keep them going for a bit, it does not follow that these were Mr Rs debts. 
Those factors are circumstantial, and its very much plausible that a fraudster  especially a 
known party  might do this so they can keep using the accounts for longer. Its argument 
that there are multiple accounts in his name at that address is circular. All of those accounts 
are either disputed as, or confirmed to be, fraudulent, and follow a similar pattern of potential 
fraudulent use.
So while I accept that Lowell initially bought these debts in good faith, I find that it did not 
have a sufficient basis or entitlement to pursue Mr R for them. And while Im glad to see that 
Lowell eventually looked into Mr Rs disputes  albeit after giving Mr R poor customer 
service  it did not react appropriately to the results of those disputes. The evidence at hand 
should have rung alarm bells for Lowell. Essentially, there is currently no substantial positive 
evidence which actually shows that these are Mr Rs debts, whereas theres quite a bit of 
evidence which suggests theyre not.
It follows that I currently think that Lowell cannot hold Mr R liable for these debts.I have also thought carefully about how Lowell handled things for Mr R. As I mentioned 
above, its customer service here was poor. Lowell took too long to deal with things, and it 
looks like it either lost or ignored correspondence. The matter has now been continuing on 
for two years, and Mr R has had to put quite a bit of effort into sorting it out due to Lowells 
unhelpfulness. Further, I can see that Lowell caused Mr R some considerable distress and 
upset by saying it would close all the accounts involved, then continuing to hold him liable for 
two of them anyway. That all needs to be put right. Taking into account our guidelines for 
compensation and the impact Lowells errors had on Mr R, I find that its offer of £175 is not 
enough. £450 would be more appropriate in the circumstances of this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr R thanked us and said he had nothing further to 
add.
Lowell confirmed that one of the remaining accounts has now been returned to the original 
lender due to concerns of fraud, and closed on its end. It sent in further information it had 
gathered from the other original lender for the last remaining account.
Im grateful that Lowell has provided the information it could. But this information only 
supports the conclusions from the provisional decision. For example, it shows that the 
remaining account was applied for using the false address, false contact details, and a bank 
account which does not match Mr Rs. As far as I can see, that lender had no positive 
identity checks which confirmed it was Mr R who was applying, and no previous genuine 
contact with him. And its records now reflect that the address registered to the account was 
being used for fraud.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before, for the 
reasons set out here and in my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Lowell Financial Ltd to:
Take the accounts involved out of Mr Rs name and disassociate him from them, if it 
has not done so already;
Make sure that Mr R is no longer pursued for these accounts;
Remove its records of these accounts from Mr Rs credit file; and-
Pay Mr R £450 compensation in total for the trouble and upset it caused.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint, and direct Lowell Financial Ltd to put things right in the way Ive 
set out above.If Mr R accepts the final decision, Lowell Financial Ltd must carry out the redress within 28 
days of the date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman