DRN-3336824
The complaint
Mr H complains HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited (HBOS) delayed transferring two 
child trust funds (CTF) to a new provider. He is also unhappy as he says he was given 
misleading information which meant he thought the shares held by the two accounts hadnt 
been sold when they had. Also, hes unhappy he wasnt sent a closing statement for either 
account.
 
What happened
I understand Mr H was notified by HBOS in February 2020 of their intention to sell their CTF 
business to a third party. Mr H declined the transfer as he had no experience with the third 
party. Instead, Mr H completed transfer forms and sent them to his chosen provider on 13 
March 2020. 
Mr H was notified by HBOS around 29 March 2020 that the transfers were to take place. He 
also received statements which gave no indication the shares had been sold. He explained 
this was a particularly turbulent time due to the pandemic. He later checked with the new 
provider and saw that the money had been transferred but it was significantly less than he 
expected. 
Mr H was concerned about the amount of money received and also that he had received no 
confirmation from HBOS that the holdings within the CTFs had been sold and transferred. 
Therefore, Mr H complained to HBOS in January 2021.   
HBOS responded to the complaint in May 2021. They offered Mr H £101 in relation to the 
poor service identified. This included a small amount for postage costs.  However, they didnt 
agree they had caused Mr H a financial loss and highlighted the impact of the global 
pandemic on the stock market at the time. Mr H didnt agree, and HBOS reiterated this 
response in June. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. He said HBOS failed in their duty of 
care to look after his investments and ensure they were successfully transferred to his new 
provider. Also, that they did not keep him informed and clearly misled him by stating that no 
transaction had been made up to 27 March 2020. The Investigator looked into things and 
explained why he didnt think Mr H had been caused a financial loss. However, he felt the 
statements provided were inaccurate, a closing statement should have been provided and 
HBOS should have responded to Mr Hs concerns sooner. He felt that £201 compensation 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  
In response to the view, Mr H said he did not agree with the Investigators proposed 
settlement. In summary, he said it was not just a series of admin errors, and he trusted 
HBOS to manage a significant portion of their savings, but they had failed to show a 
professional level of care. He explained he hadnt received notification of transfer to the 
external company and he didnt receive a share sale transaction report. Also, HBOS failed to 
provide account details to the new provider and allowed his personal records to be 
destroyed. 
Additionally, Mr H reiterated that HBOS had produced misleading statements which showed 
the sale had not yet been completed when it already had been. He said that if the 
Investigator concluded the information was only misleading up until 27 March 2020, he 
should be compensated in the difference in price between 24 March (the date the shares 
were actually sold) and 27 March.  
In response to the view, HBOS accepted the Investigators findings and proposed 
settlement. They confirmed they had nothing to add. They said the transfer date used was 
the correct date based on when the forms were received. And it was up to Mr H to decide to 
transfer during a volatile period outside of their control. Also, if it took longer than he says it 
should then its unclear why he feels a later date should be used just because the unit price 
was higher. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately, HBOS have not been able to produce all the information Id expect to see 
here. Theyve explained this is because the CTFs used to be administered by a third party, 
and they later chose to change the administrators. This led to the old administrators of the 
CTFs destroying information relating to accounts they were no longer responsible for. I 
understand it would have been helpful to have this information and I appreciate what Mr H 
has said about the records. However, Mr H was still able to transfer the accounts and I dont 
agree HBOS acted unreasonably here. My findings are based on the information I do have. 
I also do appreciate Mr H felt he had no choice but to transfer the CTFs to a third party 
provider and it was only triggered by HBOSs decision to sell their CTF business. I do 
understand Mr Hs comments here, but HBOS are entitled to make such decisions about the 
services and products they offer. Whilst I appreciate it would be frustrating, I cant say HBOS 
did anything wrong here.  
I have seen a copy of the transfer authority for both accounts and can see it was signed by 
Mr H on 13 March 2020. Mr H says he emailed them to the new provider on the same day. 
And received acknowledgement on 24 March and his new provider thanked him for his 
recent application. 
It seems likely the shares from both accounts were sold on 24 March 2020. This is based on 
what I know about the amount of shares held, the amount received when sold and the selling 
price on 24 March. Also, the new provider received the cash proceeds from HBOS on 8 
April. 
Looking at the dates, it seems likely HBOS processed the transfer request within a 
reasonable timeframe. Also, Mr H understood it could take between six and eight weeks and 
the transfer took place within this timeframe. Additionally, I would add that Im not persuaded 
they did anything wrong because the transfer happened sooner than Mr H expected. 
However, it doesnt appear HBOS sent a closing statement to confirm the accounts had 
been closed with them. Instead, Ive seen HBOS sent statements for each of the accounts 
around 29 March 2020. The statement of one of the accounts said it included information 
about transactions up to the 26 March and the other up to 27 March. However, they did not 
reflect that the holdings in both accounts had actually been sold by this point and Mr H could 
reasonably conclude they hadnt been. The statements also included the value of the shares 
(which I note was higher than the price they had been sold for). I agree this would have been 
confusing and misleading because the information reported in the statements wasnt 
accurate. HBOS have also accepted they took too long responding to Mr Hs complaint. Having looked 
at the information, I agree they should have responded to his concerns about the transfer 
sooner as he was clearly worried something went wrong here. 
Overall, Im content HBOS processed the sale and transfer of both accounts reasonably. 
However, they took longer than I would expect to answer Mr Hs concerns. Also, they 
provided statements with inaccurate information and it doesnt seem they sent a closing 
statement. I can appreciate this was frustrating for Mr H and Ill come back to this below. 
However, Mr H has also said this has caused him a financial loss and that he wasnt able to 
reinvest because he wasnt aware the sale and transfer had gone through. Its important to 
note the impact of the global pandemic on the stock market and that values dropped as a 
result of the first lockdown. The sale of the shares did occur at an unfortunate time and I can 
see there were fluctuations in the value of the holdings as a result of the markets reacting to 
the global conditions. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold HBOS accountable for the 
value received. But I do note it was towards the peak of what was being achieved during the 
relevant period, although there was subsequently a rise in the value as noted on the account 
statements. Nevertheless, Ive already noted that Im content HBOS handled the sale of the 
shares and subsequent transfer within a reasonable timeframe. 
In respect of reinvesting, Id need to see Mr H had clear intentions at the time which he was 
prevented from carrying out as a result of HBOSs service. However, the evidence Ive seen 
doesnt persuade me of this and Id note Mr H has explained he didnt check the accounts 
and reinvest until sometime later. The statements show the cash remained uninvested in 
June 2020. Mr H understood the timescale may be between six and eight weeks, so could 
have looked into this at the time. Therefore, Im unable to say inaccurate statements or 
failure to provide a closing statement directly prevented him from reinvesting. 
So, whilst I agree that there were some service issues here, Im not satisfied this led to a 
financial loss. 
Putting things right
HBOS provided inaccurate statements, failed to provide closing statements and took some 
time answering Mr Hs concerns about the transfer. They have already apologised for the 
time taken to respond to his concerns and offered £101. In addition to this, I think they 
should pay a further £100. This is a total of £201 and Im content this appropriately 
recognises the impact of issues identified. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is HBOS Investment Fund Managers 
Limited should pay Mr H £201 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman