DRN-3492672
The complaint
Mr O complained that Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans lent to him irresponsibly 
and provided him with loans that were unaffordable.
What happened
Dot Dot Loans provided loans to Mr O as follows: 
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidMonthly 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountMonthly 
Repayment
1 13/07/2020 29/01/2021 6 £400 £129.34
2 16/03/2021 04/06/2021 6 £200 £64.98
3 19/08/2021 31/01/2022 3 £150 £81.50
Mr O said Dot Dot Loans provided the loans when he was already in a spiral of unaffordable 
short-term borrowing and that a proper check of his financial history wouldve have shown 
that this lending was unaffordable for him.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She didnt think shed seen enough to say 
that Dot Dot Loans shouldnt have provided loans 1 and 2, but she didnt think loan 3 should 
have been provided as it shouldve found out about the extent of his other lending and 
realised that it wasnt sustainably affordable for him. 
Dot Dot Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In brief summary, it mainly 
said that Mr Os outstanding credit amount wasnt unreasonable, there were no serious black 
marks on his credit history, his income details had been checked and, when assessing 
affordability, his likely expenditure was boosted to bring it in line with statistical averages. It 
also pointed out that loan 3 was for less than half the value of loan 1 and smaller than the 
previous loan and said that for a £150 loan, its checks were proportionate. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Dot Dot Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the borrowers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But a 
lender needs to keep in mind the overall picture and certain factors could point to the fact 
that Dot Dot Loans should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any 
lending was sustainable for the borrower. 
Dot Dot Loans was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an 
indication a borrower could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically 
follow this is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to 
make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
Looking at the first two loans, I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Dot Dot 
Loans to give Mr O these loans. And as Mr O seems happy to accept what our adjudicator 
said about these loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Dot Dot Loans told us about the checks it did before lending loan 3 to Mr O. It asked him to 
provide details of his income and to tell Dot Dot Loans what he normally spent each month. 
And Dot Dot Loans also carried out checks on Mr Os credit file. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree that Dot Dot Loans made a fair lending decision when it 
provided loan 3 to Mr O. Heres why I say this.
Based on what Mr O had told Dot Dot Loans about his financial situation, Dot Dot Loans 
understood that he had ample disposable income of around £760 each month. But it could 
see that during the period it had been lending to Mr O his total indebtedness had been 
rapidly increasing. His outstanding credit commitments had gone up from around £2,100 
when he took out loan 1 to over £8,000 by the time he was applying for loan 3 just 
13 months or so later, despite the fact that Dot Dot Loans recorded a rise in his monthly 
income over the same period (now £2,000, up from £1,800 when he took loan 1 and £1,900 
when he applied for loan 2).
I think this was worrying information, especially bearing in mind that Mr O had been in his job 
throughout and he was living with his parents with only limited responsibility for all the usual 
household expenses. Given Mr Os apparent escalating need for expensive credit, I think 
Dot Dot Loans shouldve realised that the information it had gathered suggesting that Mr O 
had substantial (or any) disposable income was significantly at odds with what its credit 
checks showed. To my mind, this shouldve alerted Dot Dot Loans to the risk that it couldnt 
safely rely on what Mr O had told it about how he spent his money as I think he had 
unexplained levels of debt. 
I think all this information shouldve prompted Dot Dot Loans to carry out more thorough 
checks into Mr Os financial situation before agreeing to lend. Dot Dot Loans should have 
taken steps to verify what Mr O was saying about his financial circumstances as it was 
evident that it had contradictory information in front of it and what Mr O had declared wasnt 
reflected in other information Dot Dot Loans had gathered. Dot Dot Loans hasnt shown me it 
did this. So I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing to lend 
to Mr O. 
This means I need to think about what its likely Dot Dot Loans would have found out had it 
done what I consider wouldve been proportionate checking when Mr O applied for loan 3. Mr O provided his bank statements to us so Ive looked through these to see what Dot Dot 
Loans was likely to have found out. In the absence of other evidence, I think these give a 
useful insight into Mr Os finances at the time and had Dot Dot Loans looked in more depth 
at Mr Os finances it would likely have seen that he was facing serious problems managing 
his money. 
I say this because if Dot Dot Loans had gained a better understanding of Mr Os finances 
and his use of credit, it would have seen that Mr O had an established record of taking out 
short-term loans and in the months running up to Mr O applying for this loan that he had 
been in a cycle of borrowing-repaying-borrowing again from multiple other short term 
lenders. During the month or so running up to him applying for loan 3, he took out new loans 
ranging between £150 - £400 with six other lenders. And, on top of this, when he applied for 
loan 3 he was already making repayments to at least six other providers of short-term loans 
and high cost credit.
Like our adjudicator, I think this pattern of borrowing strongly suggests Mr O was already 
having serious money problems and he depended on taking out new credit to supplement 
his income in order to repay his existing credit commitments. It is apparent from looking at 
his bank statements that Mr O didnt have the amount of disposable income that Dot Dot 
Loans income and expenditure calculations suggested, or indeed any spare cash at all  all 
the signs are that his finances were under significant stress. 
To my mind, Dot Dot Loans shouldve realised that Mr O was not in a position to sustainably 
make the loan repayments of around £81 each month over the next three months, given that 
he seemed to be already over-stretched financially. It follows that I dont think Dot Dot Loans 
should have agreed to provide this loan to Mr O in these circumstances. 
So Im planning on upholding the complaint about loan 3.
I hope that setting out my reasons as I've done helps explain more clearly why its fair and 
reasonable to uphold this complaint and I invite Dot Dot Loans to reconsider its position in 
light of what I've said above.
Although Im mindful that Mr O has told us hes unhappy about the way Dot Dot Loans 
has handled his complaint, Ive concentrated in my decision on his unaffordable lending 
complaint and based on everything I've seen so far, I consider that the redress I've set 
out below is fair and reasonable.   
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mr O told me has has nothing further to add and Dot Dot Loans has said it accepts my 
provisional decision. So I think its reasonable for me to proceed with my review of this 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this complaint. Id like to thank both parties for all the information that has been provided about this matter 
and Im grateful to Dot Dot loans for responding so promptly to my provisional decision and 
confirming acceptance. Given that Ive not received any further evidence or comment that 
changes my mind about this complaint, I now confirm the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Dot Dot Loans should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about 
what might have happened if it hadnt provided lending to Mr O, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have. 
Clearly there are a great many possible and all hypothetical answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr O may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. 
If this wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or 
relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would 
(or ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
now impossible to reconstruct accurately.
From what Ive seen in this case, I dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and 
substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr O in a compliant 
way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr O would more likely than not have taken up any one of 
these options.
So it wouldnt be fair now to reduce Dot Dot Loans liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.For loan 3, Dot Dot Loans should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr O received as a result of having been given this 
loan. The repayments Mr O made should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr O having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement). 
If any capital balance should remain outstanding then Dot Dot Loans should attempt 
to arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr O (its my understanding that 
this loan was repaid in which case this wont apply).  
remove any negative information recorded on Mr Os credit file regarding this loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Dot Dot Loans to deduct tax from this interest. Dot Dot 
Loans should give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks 
for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Shelby Finance Ltd trading as Dot Dot Loans to take the 
steps I've set out above to put things right for Mr O. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman