DRN-2875715
The complaint
Ms B complains that Saga Services Limited mis-sold her a personal private medical 
insurance policy.
What happened
In April 2018, Ms B called Saga to discuss taking out a personal private medical insurance 
policy. Ultimately, she chose to take out a Super policy, which included a 40% protected no-
claims discount (NCD) and also included two months free cover. Ms B paid £4554.61 for the 
2018-19 policy year (inclusive of a discount of £910.92 for the two free months of cover). 
The policy was underwritten by an insurer Ill call A and began on 15 May 2018.
At the next renewal, Ms Bs price had increased to £6050.68. She called Saga, as the quote 
was significantly higher than shed expected. Shed understood that the 40% NCD would be 
applied to the original premium at renewal, if she hadnt made any claims. Saga explained 
that Ms B had begun her policy in 2018 with an NCD level of six  40%. This meant the 
discount had been built into her original premium. At renewal, as she hadnt made any 
claims during the past policy year, her NCD had gone up to 45%. 
Ms B was unhappy with Sagas explanation and she complained. She felt that its sales agent 
hadnt properly explained how the NCD worked and the impact on her premium. She asked 
us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Ms Bs complaint should be upheld. He explained that as were 
not the industry regulator, he couldnt tell Saga how it should sell policies. But he listened to 
the calls between Ms B and Saga. While he acknowledged the discussions about the NCD 
had been brief, he didnt think the sales agent had suggested that the NCD would be added 
at the end of the first policy year. He thought the sales agent had explained that the NCD 
would increase by 5% if no claims had been made. And he thought the paperwork Ms B had 
been sent explained that the NCD was included in the price. He considered this shouldve 
prompted Ms B to ask questions if it didnt reflect her conversations with the sales agent. So 
he didnt think Saga had mis-sold the policy. He noted though that Saga had previously 
offered Ms B £30 for the way itd handled her concerns and he considered this was fair.
Ms B disagreed. Ive summarised her detailed response to our investigator. She maintained 
that the sales agent hadnt explained that the NCD had already been deducted from the 
premium hed quoted. She didnt agree that she shouldve asked questions in response to 
the paperwork. Thats because she thought the term NCD should mean a discount thats 
applied to a premium after a period of time during which a claim hasnt been made. She felt 
the investigator had assessed the complaint with the benefit of hindsight, rather than taking 
into account what shed believed during the sales call. And it shouldve been the sales 
agents responsibility to ensure the NCD had been understood. She mentioned that shed 
sought legal advice and the opinions of professional persons whod agreed that her policy 
had been mis-sold. So shed been surprised by the investigators assessment.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Ms B, I dont think Saga has done anything 
wrong which it needs to put right. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Ms B that while Ive summarised the background to her complaint 
and her detailed submissions, Ive carefully considered all shes said and sent us. In making 
my decision though, I havent commented on each and every point shes raised and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
Next, its important I make clear my role. As the investigator explained, were not the industry 
regulator. We have no power to tell the financial businesses we cover how to operate or to 
change their processes or sales procedures. Our role is to consider individual complaints 
where a consumer thinks theyve lost out because of something a financial business did 
wrong. So I cant tell Saga how it ought to sell its policies or prescribe how it ought to 
describe the NCD. What I can do is weigh up the evidence I have about how Saga sold Ms 
Bs policy and the relevant policy documentation to decide whether Saga did anything wrong 
which caused Ms B to lose out.
Ms B has referred to the relevant regulators rules which relate to the sale of insurance 
policies. Ill summarise those which I consider to be most applicable to the circumstances of 
Ms Bs complaint. Saga didnt give Ms B advice about whether to take out the policy. This 
means it didnt need to make sure it was suitable for her. Instead it needed to provide 
enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy to allow her to make an 
informed decision about whether or not to go ahead with it. And Saga needed to act 
honestly, professionally and fairly, in accordance with Ms Bs best interests. So Ive carefully 
considered all of the evidence to decide whether Saga met its regulatory obligations.
Ive listened closely to the sales calls between Ms B and Saga. The first two calls discussed 
what cover Ms B wanted and what the insurer would be able to provide. I agree that during 
the calls, the NCD was discussed only briefly. The sales agent explained that as Ms B had a 
promotional code, shed be entitled to a level six NCD which Ms B went on to protect. 
I accept that the sales agent didnt explain that this discount was included in the overall price 
he quoted Ms B. But neither did he suggest that the discount would only become applicable 
at the end of the first policy year. He added that at the end of each year without a claim, a 
further 5% discount would be added up to a total of 60% - which was equal to level 10 on the 
NCD scale. This accords with the contract terms setting out how the NCD scale works. I 
cant fairly agree then that the sales agent misled Ms B about the NCD or when it would be 
applied. Id add that while Ms B has now referred to the importance of the NCD in forming 
the contract; she did seem satisfied with the brief information she was given about it by 
Sagas agent. So I also think that it was open to Ms B to ask more questions about the NCD 
if it was of particular importance to her. However, she chose to go ahead based on the 
information shed already been given.
And Ive also borne in mind that Ms B specifically asked if shed get paperwork to check 
through before going ahead with the quote. The sales agent confirmed that she would be 
sent detailed paperwork. Ms B told the sales agent that shed look through the paperwork 
carefully before going ahead. Indeed, in the third call, when Ms B took up the policy, she told 
the sales agent shed been deliberating between the paperwork to decide which of the two 
policies theyd been discussing was the best one for her. 
It seems to me then that Ms B appreciated that the policy documents would provide her with 
useful information about what the policy did and how it worked. So Ive turned to consider the policy schedule Ms B was sent, dated 19 April 2018. This set out, amongst other things, 
the policy cover details and the additional options Ms B had added. It also includes 
information about the price of the policy. A specific section called Your Cover Options sets 
out a table of the cover Ms B chose and includes the following information:
This table shows details of the HealthPlan you requested. The price includes your 
starting No Claims Discount and Insurance Premium Tax (where applicable) at the 
prevailing rate. (Bold is my emphasis).
Item five on the table states that Ms Bs NCD is 40% and item six confirms that Ms B has 
chosen to protect that NCD. Separately, the table includes information about the two months 
free promotional discount and shows the resulting impact on the price.
In my view, the schedule makes clear that Ms Bs starting premium was inclusive of a 40% 
NCD. And her policy terms also explained how the NCD worked. So I think if Ms B had 
understood the discount wouldnt be applied until the 2019-20 policy year; it wouldve been 
reasonable for her to contact Saga, within the 14-day cooling-off period, to query when the 
NCD would apply. However, Ms B didnt get in touch with Saga until the following renewal.
Overall, Im satisfied the totality of the information Saga gave Ms B about the NCD was 
clear, fair and not misleading. It was also open to Ms B not to go ahead with renewing the 
policy once she understood how the NCD worked, but she opted to do so. She was free, at 
that point, to look elsewhere for policies with a cheaper base premium if she was unhappy 
with what Saga (and the insurer) could offer. She told us that she is happy with the cover 
and it appears she was happy to pay the relevant premium, even after learning that the NCD 
had already been applied. So I cant reasonably conclude that Ms B wouldnt have taken the 
policy in 2018, based on the quoted price, even if Saga had given a fuller explanation about 
the NCD. Thats because it seems she was happy to pay the annual premium she was 
quoted and with the cover. This means I dont find the policy was mis-sold to her.
Ms B has subsequently told us shes unhappy with information she was given about the 
ease with which she would be able to switch between types of plan. As the investigator 
explained, Saga hasnt yet had the chance to look into this concern and respond to it. So Ms 
B will need to raise this directly with Saga before we can potentially help.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman