DRN-3326801
The complaint
Miss F complains that Society of Lloyds unfairly declined a motorbike theft claim. 
What happened
Miss F purchased an off-road motorcycle in 2019 and insured this with a Lloyds underwriter, 
storing the bike in a building on her parents property nearby. 
In July 2020, she was contacted by DVLA to advise that someone had contacted them to 
register their ownership of the bike. On hearing this, Miss F went to her parents house, to 
find the bike had been stolen from the storage building. Miss F registered the theft with the 
Police, and with Lloyds. 
Lloyds refused Miss Fs theft claim, stating no evidence had been provided to show there 
had been any violent and forcible entry to the building where the bike was stored. Lloyds 
referred to a policy endorsement relating to the need to have kept the bike in a locked 
building, and to a policy exception concerning whether there was evidence of a forced entry 
or exit to the building. Lloyds commented there was no sign the building had been 
padlocked, and no sign there had been any forcible and violent entry. 
Unhappy with this, Miss F brought her complaint to us. However, our investigator thought 
Lloyds had applied the policy exclusions fairly in declining Miss Fs claim. So, Miss F asked 
for the case to be considered by an ombudsman. And its now been passed to me.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 10 January 2022 upholding Miss Fs complaint, saying as 
follows:
The relevant terms and exclusions of Miss Fs policy which Ill need to consider are:
Definitions
-Theft - Theft or attempted theft caused by forcible and/or violent means
Your Obligations
-You must ensure that your motorcycle is locked and all security requirements, stipulated 
as part of the insurer providing the cover to you, must be adhered to.
General exclusions  What is not covered  general exceptions
-Loss or damage to your motorcycle where the security requirements have not been 
adhered to
-Loss or damage to your motorcycle resulting from theft or attempted theft unless it 
involves forcible or violent means and a crime reference number was obtained from the 
Police.
-The vanishing of your motorcycle in an unexplained manner where there is an absence 
of evidence of a wrongful act by a person or persons including, but not limited to, where 
there was no direct evidence of a forced entry/exit to the risk address, there is no direct 
evidence that your motorcycle was stolen.
Policy Schedule  Endorsement Descriptions
-You have agreed that you will keep your motorcycle in a locked garage or building at the 
risk address declared to us. If a theft or attempted theft happens and the motorcycle is 
not in a locked garage or building, the insurer will not pay any claim you make for that 
theft or attempted theft.
-Your motorcycle must be securely locked to an object that cannot be moved using a 
motorcycle D-lock, U-shackle or padlock and chain. If you do not do this the insurer may 
not deal with your claim.
-Your policy will not be operative in respect of theft or attempted theft of your motorcycle 
unless, at the time of loss: 
oyour motorcycle is secured by a Thatcham Category 3 or Sold Secure Gold rated 
D-Lock, U-Lock, Shackle Lock or Chain Lock and;
oyour motorcycle is secured by a Thatcham Category 3 or Sold Secure Gold 
Rated wall or ground anchor (and Thatcham Category 3 or Sold Secure Gold 
Rated chain lock where this is required and not supplied as part of the wall or 
ground anchor) when at the risk address.
Its not in dispute between the parties that Miss Fs bike was taken from the building where it 
was stored, without Miss Fs knowledge. She only found out about this some weeks later 
when the DVLA contacted her about a change of ownership. Miss F duly reported this to the 
police. The issues for me to consider here are whether Miss F complied with the terms of her 
insurance policy in relation to the storage/security of her bike. And whether Lloyds 
considered those terms fairly when deciding to decline Miss Fs claim.
Firstly, Im satisfied that Miss Fs bike was secured by an appropriate ground anchor and 
chain. Photos have been provided to both Lloyds and this office showing the chain had been 
cut. And Lloyds have made no mention in their final response challenging this aspect of the 
bike security.
But Miss Fs policy says she wont be covered if her bike is stolen from a building that isnt 
locked. In this case, there was no visible evidence, after the theft, that the building had been 
locked. There was no damaged/broken padlock on the ground, and no obvious damage to 
the lock/hasp on the door of the building. Miss F has provided a report from a locksmith, with 
photos, to show how it would have been possible to break a padlock without damaging the 
hasp. I appreciate what Miss F is attempting to show here, but this alone doesnt prove the 
building was locked.
However, Ive listened to the calls Miss F made when reporting the theft to the Police, and to 
Lloyds when she first notified them of the theft. These were made immediately after she 
became aware of the theft, and in both she is clear and consistent when mentioning that the 
thieves must have broken the padlock to gain entry. This was her testimony at the time and 
so I think would have reflected what she genuinely believed regarding the level of security on 
the building. Im persuaded by this testimony given its timing and consistency. So, on 
balance, this leads me to conclude it was more likely than not the building was indeed 
locked. I also need to consider the What is not covered  general exception Lloyds have relied on 
in their final response  The vanishing of your motorcycle in an unexplained manner where 
there is an absence of evidence of a wrongful act by a person or persons 
Here, I dont think Miss Fs bike wasnt taken in an unexplained manner  it was removed 
from the storage building, using force (on entry  as above), and there is clear evidence of a 
wrongful act to facilitate that (the violence when the chain was cut). In other words, Miss Fs 
bike does appear to have been taken in a manner that is/was explained, using force. There 
is an explanation. That being the case, I dont think Lloyds can rely on this exception to 
refuse Miss Fs claim. 
Furthermore, addressing Lloyds final response assertion that there wasnt any evidence of 
violent and forcible entry, I refer to relevant caselaw, and in particular the Calf -v- Sun 
Insurance Office case  the relevant judgement text being as follows: 
that by the words actual forcible and violent entry it was intended to mean an entry 
effected by the exercise of force in a manner that was not customary in order to 
overcome the resistance of the usual fastenings and protections in the premises. If a 
person turns a key he uses force but not violence. If he uses a skeleton key, he uses 
force but not violence. If on the other hand instead of using a key he uses a pick-lock, 
or some other instrument, or a piece of wire, by which as a lever he forces back the 
lock, it appears to me that he uses force and violence, and in the present case both 
force and violence were used.   
Its clear from this judgment  and reflects our usual approach in such cases  the mere act 
of opening a door will constitute an act of force. And this is what happened here. The thief 
would have needed to open the steel door via the covered hasp  and would have had to 
use force to do this. There is no requirement for violence to have been evident when 
accessing the building where the bike was stored. The relevant exclusion is clear only force 
needs to be evident  where there was no direct evidence of a forced entry/exit to the risk 
address. 
So, having considered all the above, Im satisfied the policy exclusions relating to the 
storage and security of Miss Fs bike dont apply here. Im satisfied the building where the 
bike was stored was more likely than not locked, that force was likely used to gain entry 
through the substantial steel door to the building, that violence was used to cut the lock in 
the act of the theft, and that Miss Fs bike didnt vanish in an unexplained manner. 
So Im satisfied Lloyds are unable to fairly rely on the exclusions within Miss Fs policy to 
refuse her theft claim, which I think they should now settle in accordance with the settlement 
terms of her policy. And if Miss F has paid to replace her bike, Lloyds will need to pay her 
8% simple interest on the amount she paid (up to the assessed value of this stolen bike), 
calculated from the date she purchased any replacement bike to the date of settlement.  
I also think Lloyds should pay Miss F £125 to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience Miss F has experienced in recognition of the difficulties shes encountered 
bringing this claim. 
Response to my provisional decision
Miss F has responded, and confirmed she has nothing further to add. Lloyds responded and 
have explained they dont accept my provisional findings. 
Lloyds have repeated a point theyve made before, namely there is no evidence of any 
damage to the hasp. They believe it would have been impossible to cut any padlock that was protected by the hasp without causing visible damage to it  and as such the absence of any 
damage most likely means there couldnt have been any padlock there in the first place. 
Lloyds also refer to the photos Miss R provided. They suggest these pictures show the 
hasp/lock is of such a size there isnt even enough room to allow a sawing blade to access 
and cut a padlock. And importantly, a locked storage unit is a condition of the policy and, 
given the above comments Lloyds believe there is insufficient evidence to show Miss Fs 
unit was indeed locked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do fully appreciate what Lloyds are saying here. I agree there is no visible damage to the 
hasp, and that the space to cut any lock is limited. But Im not persuaded its impossible to 
have accessed and cut any lock that existed. Miss F submitted the photos to Lloyds 
primarily to show there was space within the hasp to allow cutting access, and Im satisfied 
these photos do show this. They show the spaces are big enough for cutting machinery to 
access, both hand-motion and small rotary electric. 
Which brings me to the question of whether there was a lock on the door  which I agree is a 
key policy condition here. As Ive said in my provisional decision, Im persuaded by Miss Fs 
testimony when she first reported the theft to the Police and to Lloyds. She makes clear 
reference to the lock having been cut in both calls  calls made in the moment. I have no 
reason to doubt the accuracy or honesty of Miss Fs account in either of these calls. So, Im 
satisfied the storage unit was more likely than not to have been locked.
So, taking all of the above into account - and given Lloyds havent raised any further points 
in response - I uphold Miss Fs complaint and require them to settle Miss Fs claim, and pay 
compensation for distress and inconvenience, in the manner set out in my provisional 
decision above. 
And if Miss F has paid to replace her bike, Lloyds will need to pay her 8% simple interest on 
the amount she paid (up to the assessed value of this stolen bike), calculated from the date 
she purchased any replacement bike to the date of settlement. In this event, Miss F will need 
to provide Lloyds with evidence of the bike purchase, showing the date paid, the amount 
paid, and that she used her own funds for the purchase.  
My final decision
I uphold Miss Fs complaint against the Society of Lloyds and require them to do the 
following:
-Settle Miss Fs claim in accordance with the claim settlement terms of her policy. 
-If Miss F paid to replace her bike, pay her 8% simple interest on the sum as calculated 
above.
-Pay Miss F £125 to compensate for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman