DRN-3952302
The complaint
Mr A complains about charges applied at the end of his hire agreement with Mitsubishi HC 
Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (Novuna).
This company was formerly known as Hitachi Capital (UK) PLC. 
What happened
In 2018 Mr A entered into a hire agreement with Novuna for a new car, which was first 
registered in March of that year. The agreement was to last for a minimum of four years, with 
the option for Mr A to continue hiring the car for up to six months longer if he wished to do 
so. 
In June 2022 the car was inspected and collected by Novunas agent. The inspection report 
detailed charges for the following damages, with a total value of £410:
Area Damage Value
Bonnet Chip - rusted £75
Sill panel (L)_ Scratched through paint £75
Front alloy wheel (L) Corrosion / rust £65
Front alloy wheel (R) Corrosion / rust £65
Rear alloy wheel (L) Corrosion / rust £65
Rear alloy wheel (R) Corrosion / rust £65
Mr A complained to Novuna that the charge of £75 was unreasonable for such a small chip 
on the bonnet, which he felt had clearly been caused by a stone shooting up from the road 
surface. He said hed been advised that white worm appearing on the wheels was caused 
by a manufacturing defect. Mr A felt he wasnt responsible for these issues because they 
were unavoidable in everyday driving - and hadnt been caused by any harsh treatment or 
negligent acts. He thought he should be due some money back for the fact that the car had 
covered significantly less mileage than the agreement permitted.
Novuna said the charges had been applied fairly. They said it was possible that the repair of 
the alloy wheels may have been covered under the manufacturers warranty, but Mr A 
should have brought this to the manufacturers attention before he returned the car. They 
said there was no provision in the agreement for a reduction in the damage recharges for the 
car having travelled less than the contractually agreed mileage.
Dissatisfied with this response, Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator thought 
Novuna should remove the charge for the chip on the bonnet because she wasnt satisfied 
that it had been applied correctly. But she felt the other charges had been applied fairly and 
in line with the industry standard  the fair wear and tear guidelines published by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
The investigator noted that there was no provision in the agreement for Mr A to receive 
credit for handing the car back with less than the contractually agreed maximum permitted 
mileage. So, she didnt think Novuna should have to take this into consideration.
Mr A disagreed. He said the BVRLA website gave the following definition:
Fair wear and tear occurs when normal usage causes deterioration to a vehicle. It is not 
to be confused with damage which occurs as a result of a specific event or series of 
events such as impact, inappropriate stowing of items, harsh-treatment, negligent acts or 
omissions.
He felt that, as Novuna hadnt been able to point to any specific event or series of events 
that had caused the damage to the wheels, it must be fair wear and tear. 
Mr A said hed paid for a repair to one wheel, which had been damaged by catching the kerb 
whilst parking. He said he hadnt known corrosion would be an issue, because Novuna 
hadnt provided him with a copy of the BVRLA guidelines. He said hed since discovered 
wheel corrosion was a common problem with this type of car.
Mr A said he understood the purpose of end-of-lease charges was to compensate Novuna 
for the loss of value when they sold the vehicle. He acknowledged that the corrosion 
decreased the cars value by £260. But he felt the cars low mileage would increase its value 
by £450 compared to the value predicted at the start of the lease. So, overall, he didnt think 
Novuna were in a worse position. 
Novuna provided an enlarged photograph of the chip on the bonnet. They said the BVRLA 
guidelines say: There should be no rust, corrosion or discolouration on any painted area. 
Novuna said they felt there should be no rust present, regardless of size. They said the 
photo showed the damaged area was brown in colour, indicating there was rust present. 
Our investigator said shed seen evidence showing Novuna had provided a link to the 
BVRLA guidelines when they sent a copy of the agreement to Mr A in January 2018. Having 
reviewed the additional photo of the chip on the bonnet, our investigator said she was 
satisfied that this damage also fell outside the fair wear and tear guidelines. So, she said she 
now thought all the charges Novuna had applied were fair. 
Mr A said he didnt think the £75 charge was proportionate to the small area of damage to 
the bonnet. He said he hadnt known how much hed be charged for damage when he 
entered the agreement. He again stressed that he hadnt done anything to cause the 
damage to the wheels, other than the one hed had repaired. Looking at the overall effect of 
the damage and lower than expected mileage on the cars end-of-lease value, he didnt think 
our investigators proposed outcome was fair. 
Mr A asked for an ombudsman to review things again, so the case has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A complains about a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit contracts such as this 
is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider this complaint.Novuna have shown us a copy of the agreement Mr A entered into, which Ive read carefully. 
Paragraph three lists his obligations, including:
to keep the vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us for any 
damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than through fair wear and 
tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Ive seen a copy of the vehicle inspection report dated 6 June 2022, which includes photos 
of each area of damage noted by the inspector. Ive also reviewed the BVRLAs fair wear 
and tear guide. In the section entitled the aim of this guide, it says:
Fair wear and tear occurs when normal usage causes acceptable deterioration to a 
vehicle.
I note the emphasis on the word acceptable here. 
The guide goes on to explain that, when reviewing the deterioration of the vehicles condition 
at the end of the finance agreement, Novuna will consider whether the vehicle has been 
looked after sufficiently. 
Ive considered each area of damage in turn with this in mind. 
1. Alloy wheels - corrosion
The BVRLA guide says:
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels.
Ive examined the photos of the alloy wheels, showing a corroded area on the spoke of 
each wheel. Im satisfied that this falls outside the BVRLA guidelines as to what would be 
considered acceptable deterioration due to fair wear and tear. 
Mr A stresses that the BVRLA guide says:
Fair wear and tear occurs when normal usage causes deterioration to a vehicle. It is not 
to be confused with damage which occurs as a result of a specific event or series of 
events such as impact, inappropriate stowing of items, harsh-treatment, negligent acts or 
omissions.
Mr A feels strongly that, unless its possible to identify a specific event or events, harsh 
treatment or negligent acts that hes done that caused the damage, it must be fair wear 
and tear. I dont think thats quite right. Im satisfied that this paragraph of the BVRLA 
guide also refers to damage thats occurred due to omissions. 
As Ive explained, the BVRLA guide clearly says there should be no rust or corrosion on 
the alloy wheels. So, I think it was reasonable for Novuna to decide the car hadnt been 
looked after sufficiently. As Mr A hadnt had this corrosion repaired, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for Novuna to charge him for this.
I appreciate Mr A feels strongly that this corrosion is the result of a manufacturing defect. 
Hes shown us extracts of threads hes obtained from internet forums about this. But if he 
felt this was a manufacturing defect that should have been covered under the 
manufacturers warranty, I do think this is something he should have taken up with the 
manufacturer before he returned the car to Novuna.2. Bonnet chip
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Chips of 3mm or less in diameter are acceptable provided they are not rusted.
Ive seen a photo of the bonnet. This shows a measuring card placed close to the chip to 
give an indication of its size. Although it appears to be less than 3mm in diameter, I can 
clearly see the bodywork has rusted. 
Although this is a small chip, Im satisfied that it falls outside the BVRLA guidance for 
acceptable deterioration due to fair wear and tear. So, I think it was fair and reasonable 
for Novuna to charge Mr A for this. 
Mr A feels £75 is an excessive amount to pay for such a small chip. Hes told us that he 
hadnt noticed it - and wasnt aware of how much Novuna would charge to repair it. But 
the inspection report indicates this is a standard fee for a smart repair, which I dont 
consider to be unreasonable. 
Ive seen a copy of a covering letter dated 28 January 2018, which Novuna sent Mr A with 
the agreement documentation. Ive seen that the front page included a paragraph headed 
Return condition of the vehicle, specifically drawing his attention to the clause of the 
agreement that requires him to return the vehicle in good condition and repair. The letter 
included a link to the BVRLA guidelines and said Novuna would be happy to send a copy 
if Mr A asked for one. 
Im satisfied that Novuna had explained how theyd assess any damage. So, I think it was 
for Mr A to make sure he checked the car over carefully before returning it - and to shop 
around for quotations for repair work if he wished to do so. If he was unsure how much 
Novuna would charge for damage such as this stone chip, I think Mr A could have 
contacted them to clarify this before he returned the car. 
3. Sill panel (L) scratch
The BVRLA guidelines say:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer or bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable provided they can be polished out.
Ive seen a photo of the sill, showing a measuring card held close to the scratch. I can 
see a scratch of around 25mm in length, which has gone right through the paint. Im 
satisfied that this falls outside fair wear and tear, so I consider it fair for Novuna to charge 
Mr A for this.
Mileage
Ive seen that the agreement allowed for a maximum of 32,000 miles within the original 
48-month hire period. The photos in the inspection report confirm the car had only 
travelled around 23,926 miles when it was collected.
I appreciate Mr A feels the cars resale value would potentially be higher due to the relatively 
low mileage  and that Novuna should make an allowance for this.  But Ive seen no 
provision in the agreement for any allowance to be made if Mr A returned the car with less 
than the maximum permitted mileage. Although I appreciate Mr A finds this frustrating, I 
dont consider Novuna to have treated him unfairly here. My final decision
Although I realise Mr A will be disappointed with this decision, for the reasons Ive explained 
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman