DRN-3614221
The complaint
Mr S and Ms R are unhappy with the way BUPA Insurance Limited handled a claim made by 
Ms R on their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Ms R have the benefit of a private medical insurance policy, underwritten by BUPA 
(the policy). 
Ms R sought cover under the policy for medical costs associated with a caesarean because 
of Cephalopelvic disproportion (CPD).
BUPA declined the claim because the policy doesnt cover treatment for childbirth and the 
delivery of a baby. And although there were two exceptions to this, BUPA concluded that Ms 
Rs circumstances didnt fall within those. BUPA also said the policy doesnt cover 
preventative treatment, procedures or medical services. 
Unhappy, Mr S and Ms R complained to BUPA and after BUPA maintained its position, they 
referred a complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S and Ms Rs complaint. Because they disagreed, their 
complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
I understand Mr S and Ms Rs disappointment but for the reasons set out below, I dont think 
BUPA has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. So, I dont uphold their complaint.
The policy terms
Exclusion 24 says BUPA doesnt pay for treatment for:
pregnancy, including treatment or an embryo or foetus 
childbirth and delivery of a baby
However, there are two exceptions to this exclusion. 
The first exclusion expressly sets out the conditions for which BUPA will pay for (subject to 
the remaining terms of the policy). CPD isnt listed. 
The second exception reflects that BUPA will:
pay for eligible treatment of an acute condition of the member (mother) that relates to 
pregnancy or childbirth but only if all the following apply:
The treatment is required due to a flare-up of the medical condition, and
The treatment is likely to lead quickly to a complete recovery or to you being 
restored fully to your state of health prior to the flare-up of the condition without 
you needing to receive prolonged treatment.
Exclusion 25 reflects that the policy doesnt cover screening, monitoring and preventative 
treatment and that includes preventative treatment, procedures or medical services.
Treatment is defined as:
Surgical or medical services (including diagnostic tests) that are needed to diagnose, 
relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
Acute condition is defined as:
A disease, illness or injury that is likely to respond quickly to treatment which aims to 
return you to the state of health you were in immediately before suffering the disease, 
illness or injury, or which leads to your full recovery. 
Has BUPA unfairly declined the claim?
BUPAs position is that the treatment Ms R wanted covered didnt meet the second 
exception relating to exclusion 24. 
It says that whilst a c-section wouldve allowed Ms R to have delivered hers and Mr Ss baby 
without complication:
it doesnt treat the CPD;
the shape or size of the pelvis isnt an acute condition which can be cured by a c-
section. And that although CPD can also be due to the size of the baby, a c-section 
cant cure the babys size;
CPD doesnt constitute an acute condition as defined by the policy as it isnt a 
disease, illness or injury capable of being treated. 
BUPA also says the policy doesnt cover treatment used to prevent acute conditions from 
occurring. 
I dont think BUPA has acted unreasonably by relying on the policy terms to decline the 
claim. Ill explain why.
Ms Rs consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist says in a letter dated September 2021 that 
although caesarean section cannot cure CPD it is absolutely essential to prevent uterine 
rupture and life threatening maternal haemorrhage. I think this supports BUPAs position 
that the medical treatment required by Ms R didnt meet the policy definition of treatment 
because the surgery wasnt needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
Ms Rs consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist has said in a further letter dated June 2022 
that CPD by definition is an acute condition. Can only incur when there is a mismatch 
between the fetal size and the female pelvis during labour. Also, by definition, this condition is cured following delivery as the fetus is no longer present and the shape and size of the 
pelvis has no implications for the womans health and should return to her normal state 
This further evidence wasnt available when BUPA took the decision to decline the claim. 
But, ultimately, Im satisfied that it hasnt been established that CPD is an acute condition as 
defined by the policy. And the second exception to exclusion 24 only applies to the 
treatment of an acute condition of the member (mother) that relates to pregnancy or 
childbirth.
Ms Rs consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist says CPD is an acute condition but neither 
of the letters provided by Ms Rs consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist describe CPD 
specifically as a disease, illness or injury. Its described as a condition and results from a 
mismatch between the size of the foetus and the female pelvis during labour. 
Further under the policy, acute condition has a specific definition that needs to be met. I 
know Mr S and Ms R say that the definition is different to what they take the term to mean. 
But its common for certain terms to be given their own definition under the policy by an 
insurer. 
To constitute an acute condition under the policy, Ms R mustve first had a disease, illness or 
injury. Those words arent together or separately defined by the policy. But Im satisfied that 
the treatment Ms R wanted covered wasnt because of injury.
Ive gone on to consider whether BUPA has fairly and reasonably concluded that CPD 
doesnt amount to a disease or illness in the absence of those terms being defined under the 
policy. Mr S and Ms R say that at the very least, CPD constitutes an illness as if left 
untreated it endangers the life and health of the mother. And it is (in the words of Ms Rs 
consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist) by definition an acute condition. So, say Mr S 
and Ms R, equivalent to an illness. 
There are various dictionary definitions. For example, the Cambridge English Dictionary 
defines:
Illness as: a disease of the body or mind; the state of being ill.
Disease as: an illness of people, animals, plants caused by infection or a failure of 
health rather than by an accident. 
Although not definitive, I think these definitions are relevant and Ive taken them into 
account. 
Ive also taken into account the legal position which reflects that the meaning of certain 
terms should be considered by reference to how they are understood in the context of the 
document by a reasonable person having all the background knowledge which would 
reasonably have been available to the parties in the situation in which they were at the time 
of the contract.
I dont think a reasonable person would reasonably consider CPD to amount to a disease or 
illness. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the presence of CPD made Ms R unwell. The 
condition can cause complications in childbirth and arises from a set of circumstances which 
makes it more difficult and hazardous to have a vaginal birth. So, I dont think BUPA has 
unfairly declined a claim under exclusion 24.
Further, and in the alternative, I dont think BUPA has unfairly concluded that exclusion 25 is 
relevant to this claim. Ms Rs consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist says a c-section wouldve allowed Ms R to have delivered hers and Mr Ss baby without complication. So, any 
complications caused by CPD wouldve been prevented by having this treatment. Im 
satisfied that BUPA has fairly and reasonably concluded that this amounts to preventative 
treatment and not covered by the policy. I dont agree with Mr S and Ms R that the term 
preventative treatment is too vague to be reasonably relied on by BUPA in this case to 
decline the claim. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all points made by Mr S and Ms R and I 
thank them for their detailed submissions. Ive seen evidence that BUPAs medical director 
was involved in the decision to decline the claim for treatment associated with CPD. Mr S 
and Ms R are correct. I dont know the medical directors level of expertise in this area, but 
BUPA has recently told us that they are a qualified doctor with more than 30 years 
experience, fully registered with the General Medical Council with a current licence to 
practice. Ive got no reason to doubt what BUPA says about that. 
Further, given the information provided by Ms Rs consultant obstetrician and gynaecologist 
dated September 2021  available at the time - I dont think BUPA has acted unfairly by not 
obtaining further medical opinion about CPD in the circumstances of this case. At the time of 
declining the claim, I think it had enough information to rely on. And I dont think BUPA has 
acted unfairly by not obtaining legal advice on whether the claim is covered under the policy. 
Legal professionals arent routinely involved in making insurance claims decisions and 
theres no obligation  whether legal, regulatory or otherwise  requiring BUPA to obtain 
legal advice. And for the same reasons, I dont think BUPA acted unreasonably by not 
arranging for a suitably qualified physician or legal profession trained in medical law to 
review their complaint to see whether the terms of the policy had been correctly applied. 
Ive also considered Mr S and Ms Rs point that before this complaint was referred to our 
service, BUPA hadnt said that CPD wasnt an acute condition because it wasnt in their view 
a disease, illness or injury. However, this forms part of the same exclusion relied upon by 
BUPA to decline the claim. And I dont think its unreasonable for BUPA to rely upon the 
policy definition of acute condition (a term which is used in the exclusion 24) as a further 
reason to decline the claim.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman