DRN-1674172
The complaint
Mr E and Ms L are unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A (Mapfre) declined their travel insurance claim for cancelled flights. 
Any reference to Mapfre includes its agents.
What happened
Mr E and Ms L were due to fly in April 2019 from India to the UK. A few days before the flight 
was due to depart Mr E and Ms L seen news coverage about possible problems affecting the 
airline (airline A) that operated their intended flight. 
They then contacted the business they had booked the flights through (airline B). Due to 
being away from the hotel where they were staying, Mr E and Ms L didnt have access to the 
internet. When they did then have access, they found out that their flight had been cancelled. 
Mr E and Ms L were told that they could be booked on a return flight in May or receive a 
refund on the cancelled flights. 
Understandably, Mr E and Ms L organised their own flight for a few hours after their intended 
departure. Given the closeness between booking and flying, these flights were much more 
expensive than what they'd paid for the cancelled flight.
When they returned to the UK, Mr E and Ms L contacted their insurer to try and make a 
claim on their travel insurance policy. Mapfre initially told Mr E and Ms L that their claim was 
declined as, at the time of the flight being cancelled, airline A was in financial difficulty but 
not financially insolvent. Therefore, the circumstances of this fight cancellation werent 
covered. The policy definition (for insolvency or financial failure) Mapfre referred to was:
An event causing the cancellation of all or part of your trip happening after you 
purchased this insurance which results in the scheduled airline no longer carrying on its 
business or service as a result of financial failure within the meaning of the Insolvency Act 
1986 or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof or a similar legal action in 
consequence of debt under the jurisdiction of a competent court in another country
Mr E and Ms L were unhappy as they felt that the circumstances of their flight cancellation 
did fall under the policy because of the financial failure wording. They then referred their 
complaint to our service.
Mapfre later reconsidered the circumstances of the claim under the scheduled airline failure 
part of their cover. This was because, since the cancelled flight and the referral to our 
service, airline A had gone into insolvency in June 2019 - after Mapfre has issued their final 
response letter. 
In summary, Mapfre referred to the airlines obligations under EU legislation and said that 
they would potentially consider a claim where there was evidence that a customer had been 
denied their statutory rights by an airline and there was no recovery from any other party. However, they still declined the claim as in this case Mr E and Ms L had received a refund of 
their flight from airline B. 
They referred to the relevant part of the policy terms which stated:
2. The extra cost of a one way airfare of a standard no greater than the class of journey on 
the outward journey to allow you to complete the return journey of your trip as a result of the 
insolvency or financial failure of the airline on which you are booked to travel causing the 
flight (or flights) on which your trip depends that were subject to advanced booking being 
discontinued and you not being offered from any other source any reasonable 
alternative flight or refund of charges you have already paid.
Ive added the specific term being relied upon by Mapfre in bold. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He found that Mapfre had acted fairly and inline 
with the policy terms. Mr E and Ms L didnt accept our investigators opinion. Specifically, as 
they were out quite an amount of money because of the difference in price between the cost 
of their new flights and the refund theyd received, they wanted to escalate their complaint.
The complaint has now been referred to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
In a complaint like this, my role is to consider how Mapfre have acted regarding applying the 
policy terms, but also if theyve treated Mr E and Ms L both fairly and reasonably in declining 
their claim. 
Having done so, I have to tell Mr E and Ms L that I think the investigator has reached a fair 
outcome here. So I dont uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I fully acknowledge what a stressful time it must have been for Mr E and Ms L finding 
out that their flight had been cancelled and then trying to find an alternative way home. 
Then the disappointment theyll have felt when their claim was declined by Mapfre.  Although 
Mr E and Ms L have my sympathy for their experience, I think that Mapfre have fairly 
declined this claim.
I say this because Airline A didnt become financially insolvent until June 2019. The 
cancelled flight had been scheduled to take place in April 2019. Therefore, unfortunately the 
policy didnt cover the circumstances of this flight cancellation and the decision to decline the 
claim was fair and reasonable.
As mentioned above, Mapfre did reconsider the claim in light of confirmation that airline A 
had officially become insolvent in June 2019. But again, I find that Mapfre have correctly and 
fairly applied the policy terms as Mr E and Ms L had already received a refund of the cost of 
their cancelled flight from airline B. 
Whilst I accept that theres a substantial difference between the cost of the new flights they 
booked and the refund received, this isnt something that Ill be directing Mapfre to pay Mr E and Ms L as theyve acted within the policy terms when declining this claim and dont need 
to do anything further. 
I know this wont be the outcome that Mr E and Ms L wanted but I hope that theyre satisfied 
that Ive fully considered all the circumstances of this complaint before coming to my 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2020.
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman