DRN-2905042
The complaint
Mrs B complains Allianz Insurance Plc have acted unfairly in relation to her pet insurance 
policy.
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but for simplicity Ive just referred to 
Allianz in this decision.
What happened
In September 2020 Mrs B submitted a claim for allergies for her pet. Allianz agreed theyd 
pay for medication and food  and they met other claims following this as well. Then on 
24 March 2021 Mrs B was told her latest claim had been turned down for the food. So, she 
complained.
Allianz said they were sorry Mrs B had complained, but the policy terms clearly said theyd 
only cover food if it was prescribed to dissolve stones or crystals in urine. And, even then, 
theyd only do it for six months. But they accepted their claims team incorrectly assessed 
Mrs Bs original claim in September 2020 that led to her thinking the food would always be 
covered. They said theyd pay the most recent claim but wont be considering any further 
ones. As an apology for this, they sent Mrs B a £30 voucher.
Unhappy with this Mrs B contacted us, saying that Allianz had gone back on their agreement 
to pay for the food.
One of our investigators looked into things. He agreed Allianz had said theyd pay for the 
food but said under the policy terms this was a mistake as they werent required to meet the 
claim. He said our approach isnt to expect someone to make the incorrect information right 
(in this case, always pay Mrs Bs claim) but instead think about the impact on the person 
whod been given the wrong information. He said Allianz paid the latest claim and sent Mrs B 
a voucher. He also said Mrs B had received payments for claims she wasnt entitled to, 
which Allianz werent asking to be repaid. So, he thought Allianz had done enough overall to 
put right their mistake.
Mrs B said she wasnt happy with this. She said her and her vets were told the food would 
be covered. She said if their underwriters made a mistake then they need more training  
and said this had made her suffer.
As Mrs B didnt accept our investigators outcome the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Allianz have said they paid out on Mrs Bs previous claims in error, and actually food for her 
pet isnt covered. So, Ive had a look at the policy terms to check this. These say:
The cost of feeding your pet
We will only cover the cost of food for the below two reasons:
If a diagnostic test shows your pet has stones and / or crystals in urine
If your pet needs liquid food while hospitalised at a veterinary practice
We will not cover the cost of any other food and this is regardless of whether or not the food 
was prescribed by a vet.
The reason Mrs Bs pet has special food is due to his allergies. So, this isnt covered by the 
policy terms.
That means Allianz did make a mistake when agreeing to pay out on previous claims. Mrs B 
isnt disputing that but thinks because theyve told her theyd meet her claims then they 
should continue to do so.
But, as our investigator explained, where incorrect information is given, we consider the 
impact on the person  rather than holding financial businesses to the incorrect information.
Here, Allianz have paid several claims they actually didnt need to. And after realising this, 
paid Mrs Bs claim anyway, sent her a £30 voucher as an apology, and said they wouldnt be 
asking for repayment of the claims paid in error.
While I realise Mrs Bs frustrations, she was never entitled to the money shes received. So, I 
think the fact she gets to keep that, and had a voucher sent to her as well, is fair. Because of 
that, I wont be telling Allianz to meet Mrs Bs future claims for food as shes asked.
I make no finding on any future claim Mrs B may make if her pets circumstances change, or 
if the policy terms change.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2021. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman