DRN-2303462
The complaint
Miss L says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about five loans Cashfloat provided to Miss L between April 2018 and 
February 2019. Miss Ls borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 14/04/2018 25/06/2018 2 £250 £182.77
2 26/06/2018 17/07/2018 2 £450 £304.80
3 29/08/2018 29/09/2018 3 £550 £267.11
4 26/11/2018 25/02/2019 3 £750 £370.46
5 27/02/2019 09/04/2019 4 £800 £315.40
Miss L said that she did not believe the last three and possibly four loans should have been 
approved due to her rapidly worsening financial situation. She complained that she had to 
keep borrowing to repay the loans and she was in no financial position to repay the loans 
back. If Cashfloat had checked thoroughly, her financial position would have been clear.
In its final response letter, Cashfloat did not uphold Miss Ls complaint but said as a goodwill 
gesture it would make a without prejudice payment which Miss L did not accept.
Our adjudicator didnt think loans 1, 2 and 3 should be upheld. But she upheld loans 4 and 5 
as she thought proportionate checks would have shown that Miss L was having problems 
managing her money.
Cashfloat didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said Miss L was in the early stages of 
borrowing and had adequate income to cover the loan repayments. Cashfloat also told us 
that Miss L had spoken to a member of the underwriting team before giving loan 3 to confirm 
ability of the lending.
As the parties hadnt reached agreement it was passed to me to decide. In September 2020 
I issued my provisional decision. In it I explained why I was intending to uphold Miss Ls 
complaint from loan 2 onwards. An extract from my provisional decision is attached and 
forms part of this final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss L could repay the 
loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ls income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss L. These factors include:
the lower a Miss Ls income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish whether 
Miss L could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Miss L could 
sustainably make her repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be 
able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context and 
what this all means for Miss Ls complaint. Im intending to uphold this complaint from loan 2 
onwards. I will explain why.
Cashfloat needed to do proportionate checks. For loan 1 Miss L told Cashfloat that she was working 
full time and her net monthly salary was £1,408.00. She also told Cashfloat she had other income of 
£476.00. Miss L stated her expenses were £100 for utility bills, £150 for her groceries, £197 for her 
loan repayments and £250 for her rent/mortgage. She said she also had other credit commitments 
of £50.
For loan 2 Miss L again said her income was £1,408.00 plus an additional £476.00. She declared 
her monthly outgoings as £150 for food, £100 for utility bills, her loan repayments as £197, her 
rent/mortgage expenses as £250 and other credit commitments as £50. So, on the face of it, it 
looked like Miss L would have been able to afford loans 1 and 2.
However, I have also seen a copy of the credit report that Cashfloat saw when it provided the 
loans.
Looking first at loan 1:
For loan 1, Cashfloat would have seen that Miss L had the following outstanding bills:
Miss L had an unsecured loan of around £8,000 and another loan for which she was making regular 
repayments of £197 which had been opened since 2016. She had around £10,500 total balance on 
her accounts  with four active accounts and although around 19 accounts had been settled at this stage, for loan 1, based on what Cashfloat saw about Miss Ls position, I dont think there was 
enough in the information for Cashfloat to think this loan would have been unaffordable for Miss L. 
Overall, I cant say it was unfair for Cashfloat to have provided loan 1 to her.
Turning to loan 2: This time the credit report showed Miss Ls total balances had increased to 
£13,958. She had twelve active accounts and in the last 6 months shed opened eight new accounts. 
Loan 2 was given only one day after the second loan was repaid. I have taken this into account. I 
have also considered that three times as many accounts were now active compared with the 
information Cashfloat had seen about Miss Ls financial position for loan1 in the credit report. Indeed, 
as loan two was only opened a couple of months after loan one was first taken out, this information 
would suggest that Miss L had been seeking and had been granted a significant amount of new 
credit, in particular made up of short-term lending. So, I think it would have been reasonable for 
Cashfloat to check Miss Ls position about her short-term lending more carefully and verify what she 
was saying about her finances.
It could have done that in several ways. It could have asked for Miss Ls wage slips to verify her 
income and her bank statements to check her outgoings.
Miss L has provided amongst other information a transaction list from her bank. I think it is 
reasonable to rely on this. The transaction list covers the period from 27 March to 26 June 2018 
when Miss L took out her second loan. I can see on 26 June 2018 she was still repaying around five 
other short-term loans. If Cashfloat had looked more thoroughly at Miss Ls overall financial situation, 
I think it would have seen from the information it had that there was an increase in short term lending 
given to Miss L. And if it had done some further checking, its likely that this would have been 
verified. I dont think it would have reasonably thought that Loan 2 was sustainable or that Miss L 
could afford to repay loan 2. All in all, I dont think Cashfloat would have lent Miss L her second loan 
if it had taken Miss Ls financial position more carefully into account.
The picture didnt improve for the next three loans Miss L took out. Loan 3 was taken only one 
month after repaying loan 2. Loan 4 was taken out around two months after repaying loan 3 and 
finally loan 5 was taken out only two days after Miss L had repaid loan 4.
For these loans the credit report Cashfloat saw for loan 3 indicated that Miss Ls account balances 
had again increased to just over £20,000 and that of this balance over £17,000 were for loans or 
instalment credit. Miss L also had 16 active accounts and had opened 18 accounts in the last six 
months, so her financial situation wasnt improving when it gave Miss L loan 3.
For loan 4 this time the credit report showed Miss Ls balances of over £25,000  so it had 
increased since loan 3 by around £8,000. Miss Ls balances for loans or instalment credit was 
nearly £23,000. Miss L had opened 15 new accounts in the last six months.
For loan 5 at this stage Cashfloat should have carried out further checks. In any event the credit 
report Cashfloat saw showed that Miss Ls balances had substantially increased to over £33,000 
and of that total, the balance of loans and instalment credit was over £29,000. The credit report 
showed Miss L had opened 11 accounts in the last 6 months.
Taking into consideration everything Cashfloat saw about Miss Ls finances it needed to check more 
thoroughly her financial position. Miss L has also provided copies of her bank statements for this 
period. Again, I think it is reasonable to rely on these to check Miss Ls financial position. I have 
looked carefully to see what these showed. If it had verified the information, it had received 
Cashfloat would have seen that Miss L had taken numerous high cost short term credit and was 
seemingly becoming reliant on this type of finance to cover the holes in her finances. For example, 
not long before she took out loan 3 Miss L was paying around nine other short-term loans and the 
position didnt alter so that Miss L was in a better financial position when she took out the next two 
loans.
If Cashfloat had done more thorough checks  which I think it shouldve done, I think it would likely 
have found the loans to be unaffordable and unsustainable and that Miss L was having problems 
managing her money.So, Im intending to uphold the complaint about loans 2, 3, 4 and 5 and asking Cashfloat to put 
things right.
putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss L paid on loans 2,3,4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2,3,4 and 5 from Miss Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must give 
Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before making my final decision.
Miss L confirmed she was happy with my provisional decision and said she had nothing 
further to add.
Cashfloat also responded. It said in summary that it would like the following taken into 
consideration:
At the earlier stages of the loan cycle less testing is required, particularly when the 
loan was for a small amount as was the case here.
A credit search was not required at the beginning of the loan cycle; however, it 
went above the basic requirements and did so.
The purpose of the credit check was to review the summary to check for any 
recent defaults or county court judgments (CCJs) that would indicate that Miss L 
wasnt a good credit risk. A full review was not carried out as this was not required 
at the early stages of borrowing- it confirmed that Miss L had no defaults recorded 
in the last 36 months and no CCJs.
Prior to authorising loan 3, a member of the underwriting team spoke to Miss L to 
confirm her income and outgoings. This was an additional measure that was 
carried out to ensure the suitability of further lending.
Miss L only had 5 loans. Additional checks were carried out beyond the 
requirements of the FCA. Miss L demonstrated good payment history with the 
company from loan 1 onwards, either paying loans off on time, or earlier than 
scheduled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
I have carefully reconsidered all that Cashfloat has told me. However, Ill explain why Im 
upholding this complaint from loan 2 onwards.
I accept at the earlier stages of the lending cycle the testing might be less rigorous and in 
my provisional decision I explained this. I said Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps 
to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss L could repay the loans in a sustainable 
manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how 
much was being lent, the repayment amounts and Miss Ls income and expenditure. With 
this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might 
be reasonable and proportionate.
In relation to loan 2 I can see that Cashfloat carried out a credit check. But I also think that 
once it had carried out a credit check it should have taken into account the information set 
out in it.  
I said that the credit check for loan 2 revealed Miss Ls total balances had increased to 
£13,958. She had twelve active accounts and in the last 6 months shed opened eight new 
accounts. Loan 2 was given only one day after the second loan was repaid. I have taken 
this into account. I have also considered that three times as many accounts were now 
active compared with the information Cashfloat had seen about Miss Ls financial position 
for loan1 in the credit report. Indeed, as loan two was only opened a couple of months after 
loan one was first taken out, this information would suggest that Miss L had been seeking 
and had been granted a significant amount of new credit, in particular made up of short-
term lending. 
And I went on to explain that taking account of this information set out in the credit check it 
should have gone further. I thought it would be reasonable for Cashfloat to check Miss Ls 
position about her short-term lending more carefully and verify what she was saying about 
her finances, which it could have done in a number of ways.
I looked at the transaction list from her bank covering the period from 27 March to 26 June 
2018 when Miss L took out her second loan. On 26 June 2018 Miss L was still repaying 
around five other short-term loans. So I said, if Cashfloat had looked more thoroughly at 
Miss Ls overall financial situation, I think it would have seen from the information it had, 
that there was an increase in short term lending given to Miss L and if it had done some 
further checking its likely that this would have been verified. I dont think it would have 
reasonably thought that Loan 2 was sustainable or that Miss L could afford to repay loan 2. 
I also note what Cashfloat has said about carrying out additional measures before 
lending loan 3 so that a member of the underwriting team spoke to Miss L to confirm her 
income and outgoings. But I also noted in my provisional decision that regardless of this, 
for loan 3 the report indicated that Miss Ls account balances had again increased to just 
over £20,000 and that of this balance over £17,000 were for loans or instalment credit. 
Miss L also had 16 active accounts and had opened 18 accounts in the last six months. 
So on that basis I said Miss Ls financial situation wasnt improving when it gave Miss L 
loan 3 or for loans 4 and 5 either.
And even though Miss L took out five loans in total, if Cashfloat had done more thorough 
checks  which I think it shouldve done based on the information it had about Miss Ls 
finances from the credit report it obtained; I think it would likely have found the loans to be 
unaffordable and unsustainable and that Miss L was having problems managing her 
money.
All in all, I dont think loans 2,3 ,4 and 5 were affordable or sustainable and I uphold the 
complaint about these loans. Cashfloat should put things right as follows:
Putting things right  what Cashfloat needs to do
refund all interest and charges Miss L paid on loans 2,3,4 and 5;pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about loans 2,3,4 and 5 from Miss Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ls complaint about loans 2,3,4 and 5 and 
Western Circle Ltd should put things right as Ive explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman