DRN-2679769
The complaint
Mr H complains that he cant contact or access his account with Revolut Ltd (Revolut).
What happened
Mr H has had an account with Revolut since 2018. The last transaction was in August 2018. 
He forgot his log in details. He tried to contact Revolut by phone, but this wasnt possible. He 
was referred to its in-app chat function.
In July 2020, Mr H complained that the in-app process doesnt work  as it needed him to log 
in using his details  which he didnt have. He tried to call them but was referred back to their 
in-app function. He wanted to speak to a human in order to sort things out. He now wants to 
close his account.
Revolut said they dont speak to customers. They gave Mr H a way to web-chat to a live 
agent, or by emailing them  they gave an email address. If he wanted to close his account - 
they asked him to provide five pieces of security to do this. 
Mr H brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator said Revolut had provided Mr H 
with two ways to access his account  given that hed forgotten his log in details. These were 
 to default to a live chat advisor; or, to close his account, to contact their customer support 
people using the email address provided in Revoluts final response. They also said he could 
contact them by replying to their final response  and if he provided some security details, 
they could close his account that way. But our investigator couldnt see that Mr H had done 
that.
Mr H said that these methods of contact didnt work and asked that his complaint be looked 
at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr Hs frustration here. He wants to speak to a person to resolve his problems  
he had forgotten his log in details  but Revolut dont provide that service. And he says that 
the other ways of dealing with them dont work. So, he cant work out a way forward.
Looking at this complaint, its appropriate to say that Revolut are a web-based bank. They 
dont have phones or people to speak to. Thats their business model. It suits many 
customers  but possibly, not all people find it right for them. This service is a complaints 
resolution service - we dont regulate banks. Nor can we tell Revolut how they should run 
their business  those are their commercial decisions. So  for example, we cant say they 
should provide a telephone service. 
I can also appreciate that Revolut must have rules about identifying customers  so they can 
be sure they are dealing with the right person. This is probably even more important to 
Revolut  as they never actually meet their customers. 
So, I can see that theyve given Mr H two ways he can contact them. The first  gave him a 
way to get through to their live web-chat team. He says that doesnt work as it takes him 
back to square one  the need to provide security details, which he cant do. The second, 
was to provide five pieces of security information to the email address given to him  or to 
reply to their final response. Mr H says he cant do that  because he doesnt have his 
Revolut details. But  looking at what details they want  four of the five pieces of 
information dont relate exclusively to his Revolut account. So, that seems to me to be the 
best way forward for Mr H. Ive not seen that hes done that yet.
But  looking at this complaint, given that he cant use the in-app service, I can see that 
Revolut have given Mr H other two ways to contact them to close his account. And we cant 
in all fairness ask them to do any more than that.  
So  and I can appreciate that Mr H may find this disappointing  I wont be asking Revolut 
to do anymore here.
 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman