DRN-2216651
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage they held with Clydesdale Bank 
Plc. They are unhappy about the amount of the early repayment charge (ERC) they had to 
pay when they redeemed the mortgage. They dont think it was fair because it was more 
than the remaining contractual payments they were due to make under the interest rate 
product the ERC was attached to. In addition, they asked to be able to use the overpayment 
allowance for 2020 before the mortgage was redeemed, but Clydesdale wouldnt allow them 
to.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a buy-to-let mortgage of slightly under £470,000 over a term of 
17 years. The mortgage was on an interest-only basis and had a fixed interest rate product 
attached to it. The product had a term to 1 February 2021 and the ERC associated with it 
was 5% of the amount repaid. However, Mr and Mrs H were allowed to pay up to 10% of the 
mortgage balance each calendar year without having to pay the ERC  this was an 
overpayment allowance.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs H decide to sell the mortgaged property. They asked if the fixed rate 
product could be ported and were told that it could, but the property they wanted to port it to 
was domestic residential rather than commercial, which was unacceptable to Clydesdale. As 
such, they asked if they could use the 2019 and 2020 overpayment allowance before the 
ERC was calculated. They were also unhappy the amount of the ERC was more than the 
outstanding contractual payments due over the remainder of the product term. 
Clydesdale confirmed that Mr and Mrs H could use the 2019 overpayment allowance, but 
they couldnt use the 2020 allowance unless the mortgage was still in place in 2020. In 
relation to the ERC, Clydesdale maintained the ERC was payable.
Mr and Mrs H werent happy with Clydesdales response and complained. 
Clydesdale responded to the complaint and explained why it charges ERCs and confirmed 
the details of the ERC that would be charged on Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage had been set out 
in the offer document they had accepted. It didnt consider it had done anything wrong in 
charging an ERC. In relation to the overpayment allowance, it confirmed that the allowance 
for 2019 could be used before the mortgage was repaid, but they couldnt use an allowance 
for a future year. 
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with Clydesdales response and referred their complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He was satisfied the ERC had been clearly documented and that the amount of the 
ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs Clydesdale would incur upon early 
repayment. He didnt think the format of the ERC, being a fixed amount throughout, was 
unreasonable or that Clydesdale should have allowed Mr and Mrs H to use the overpayment 
allowance for 2020 given the mortgage was paid off in 2019. Overall, the investigator didnt 
think Clydesdale had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept the investigators view of their case. They said they understood 
they should pay an ERC, but didnt believe it should be more than the outstanding amount 
payable to the mortgage over the remaining term of the interest rate product. In addition, 
they said they didnt believe Clydesdale incurred any costs from its funders when their 
mortgage was paid off and certainly not the amount Clydesdale charged.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to be able to lend to consumers, lenders will borrow money themselves. As with 
loans made to the lenders customers, there are costs associated with borrowing that 
money. When the lender decides the format of the loans its going to use the tranche of 
money for, it has to include an assessment of the potential risks associated with doing so. 
Included in those risks is that some customers may repay their borrowing early. When that 
happens some of the money expected to be received by the lender will not be, but the lender 
remains liable for its own cost of borrowing the money. In addition, if the lender repays its 
borrowing early, there may be costs associated with that too. 
In light of this, lenders will charge an ERC upon early repayment. Whilst Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage isnt a regulated mortgage, the regulator does allow an ERC to be charged on 
regulated mortgages and loans to cover the costs to it of consumers repaying borrowing 
early. This can be done on an individual mortgage basis, but is more commonly calculated 
for a tranche of money or group of mortgages (of a similar type) and based on a proportion 
being repaid early. This calculation will be based on the lenders experience of the likelihood 
of early repayment and assessment of future conditions. Given the regulator allows a lender 
to calculate ERCs in this way for regulated mortgages, I see no reason to look at a 
unregulated mortgage any differently. 
As for how a lender formats an ERC, different lenders format their ERCs in different ways. 
There will be changes over time as an individual lenders knowledge and experience evolves 
and as the wider mortgage market changes. The fact that some lenders have moved to 
sliding scale ERCs for some of their mortgages doesnt mean fixed format ERCs are unfair 
or unreasonable. 
Provided the charge is a reasonable pre-estimate of the loss suffered by Clydesdale if the 
mortgage is paid early, it can make the charge. I know Mr and Mrs H dont believe the 
charge reflects the loss Clydesdale suffered, or that it suffered any loss at all. However, I 
have seen the evidence of the calculations, though they cant be made publicly available as 
theyre commercial sensitive and confidential, I am satisfied the amount charged in this case 
was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. I dont think all or part of the charge should be 
refunded.
As for Mr and Mrs Hs request to use the overpayment allowance, I dont consider 
Clydesdale took an unreasonable position in this regard. The mortgage terms and conditions 
allow for up to 10% of the mortgage balance to be paid in each calendar year without the 
payment of an ERC. So Mr and Mrs H were only entitled to use the allowance for the 
calendar year they were in and any allowance from a previous or subsequent year wasnt 
available to them. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman