DRN-4462430
The complaint
Mr M complains, on behalf of W, that AXA Insurance UK Plc offered a reduced settlement 
amount for a claim he made on Ws commercial property insurance policy.
Reference to Mr M or AXA includes its respective agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mr M took out property insurance for his business in June 2021, through a broker, 
which included cover for a number of buildings. It was underwritten by AXA.
Mr M made a claim after the roof of one of the buildings was damaged during storm 
weather in November 2021. He provided a quote for around £30,000 to repair it.
AXA accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster. They said the buildings 
should have been insured for around £475,000 combined. But they had only been 
insured for £150,000. Because of this, they said the claim would be settled by 
average. That meant offering Mr M around 30% of the quote, £9,000. I understand 
the loss adjuster later reduced the estimate to £350,000, although it doesnt seem 
that led to an increased offer.
Mr M took advice from a local construction company. They estimated the rebuild cost 
at £275,000 in August 2022. He complained about the settlement offer and the way 
the claim had been handled. He said it had taken too long and hed had to 
accommodate a second loss adjuster visit to consider the building valuation again.
In its April 2023 complaint response, AXA maintained its position.
During our investigation Mr M provided further information from the local construction 
company. They estimated the rebuild cost to have been £170,000 at June 2021 
prices. Mr M questioned some of the measurements and cost per area estimates the 
loss adjuster had used to reach their estimate and set out how he thought £150,000 
would have been reasonable in June 2021, if these factors were changed. He also 
said the loss adjuster had included a fifth building that might not be insured. Mr M 
provided a quote from August 2023 to replace one of the buildings for around 
£45,000, noting that the loss adjuster had estimated £115,000 for the same building 
to highlight his concern about the accuracy of their estimate.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. Looking at all the estimates 
hed been given, he thought £275,000 was the fairest reflection of the rebuild value at 
the relevant time. Based on the premium AXA would have charged for this sum 
insured, our investigator said AXA should pay 55% of the claim value. He also said it 
should pay £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M.
Mr M agreed but AXA didnt. It had a new desktop estimate carried out, based on 
June 2021 costs. It agreed to reduce some of the measurements and cost per area 
estimates and reached a figure of around £410,000.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind, so the complaint has been 
referred to me.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many of the complaint points Mr M has raised relate to the way the policy was sold. For 
example, whether it was made clear what information he needed to provide when taking out 
the policy, the consequences of not providing the right information and that the policy might 
be settled by average.
The policy was sold by a broker, who was acting independently. That means in this 
complaint, I cant consider how the policy was sold by the broker. And, as a result, I cant 
consider those points Mr M has raised. I can only consider how AXA acted in relation to the 
things it was responsible for  which is the way it handled the claim, including the settlement 
offer it reached.
Theres no dispute the claim is, in principle, covered by the policy. The main dispute is about 
how much it should be settled for. And also how the claim was handled.
AXA seems to have accepted Mr Ms quote for around £30,000. I understand that was from 
June 2022 and Im not aware the work has been carried out. If not, its likely prices will have 
risen since then and Mr M may wish to get an updated quote for settlement to be based 
upon. That means I dont know what the work will cost, so Ill discuss the percentage AXA 
should settle the claim at, rather than the specific monetary sum.
AXA has questioned the approach our investigator has taken, which is to consider things in 
line with the Insurance Act. Im satisfied thats a reasonable approach to take. Ill explain 
why. In summary, AXA has reduced the claim settlement because it says Mr M didnt provide 
the right information when he took out the policy in June 2021. The Insurance Act sets out 
the obligations on the parties when a policy is taken out is the, so I think its relevant here. 
AXA would like to apply average. It can only do so if, amongst other things, it has a clearly 
worded term in its policy and it would be fair and reasonable to do so, bearing in mind the 
Insurance Act and any other relevant circumstances.
I cant see that AXA has quoted a policy term to support its right to apply average. So I dont 
know what term its seeking to rely on. The only one I can see in the policy that appears 
relevant is called Day one average cover. 
Its a very long term, subject to numerous conditions, so I wont set it out in full here. Its 
effect seems to be that if the value is more than 115% of the declared value, Mr M will be 
responsible for a proportionate share of the loss. The word value on its own is not defined. 
So it could mean rebuild value or market value or some other value. The phrase declared 
value is defined as, effectively, the rebuild value set by Mr M. But I cant see where Mr M set 
a declared or rebuild value. The policy schedule refers only to sum insured which need not 
be the same as a declared or rebuild value. So even if it I thought it were fair for AXA to set aside the Insurance Act and rely on the average term, Im not persuaded the term is clear 
enough, in conjunction with the policy schedule, for AXA to reduce the claim value.
But even if I took the view that declared value, rebuild cost and sum insured all meant the 
same thing  or perhaps there is a clear average term I havent seen  the policy also 
contains a fair presentation of risk condition. Again, its a very long term, so I wont set it out 
in full, but it effectively summarises AXAs rights under the Insurance Act if Mr M hadnt 
provided the right information when taking out the policy. So AXAs own policy 
acknowledges the Act and the steps involved.
This means the policy sets out two different ways of settling a claim if the right information 
wasnt given when the policy was taken out. But for the reasons above, Im not satisfied it 
would be fair for AXA to rely on the average term. That leaves only the Insurance Act  and 
the policy term which mirrors it  to consider.
The Act requires Mr M to make a fair presentation of the risk when taking out the policy. As 
above, I cant consider how the policy was sold  so I take into account what questions and 
guidance, if any, the broker asked or ought to have asked. But the Act nonetheless requires 
AXA to show Mr M failed to make a fair presentation of the risk in order for AXA to have any 
remedies available  such as reducing the claim value.
The policy schedule says the sum insured for all farm buildings is £150,000. AXA says it 
ought to have been more than this, so effectively its saying Mr M didnt make a fair 
presentation of the risk in relation to this point. AXA says this is because £150,000 wasnt an 
accurate rebuild cost when the policy was taken out.
But a sum insured need not be the rebuild cost, it can be based on a number of things. And I 
havent seen anything from AXA to show it required the broker to treat the sum insured as 
the rebuild cost. As above, thats not clearly set out in its policy either. So Im not satisfied it 
would be fair for AXA to treat the sum insured and rebuild cost as the same thing. And apart 
from its view about the rebuild cost, AXA hasnt set out any reason why Mr M setting the 
sum insured at £150,000 didnt amount to a fair presentation of the risk.
Taking all of this into account, Im not satisfied AXA has shown Mr M failed to fulfil his duty 
set out in the Act. And, in these circumstances, the Act gives AXA no remedy. That means it 
didnt have the right to reduce the claim value at all.
To put things right, AXA should settle the claim without making any deduction for what it 
considers to be underinsurance. All other policy terms and conditions remain.
The claim was made in November 2021. Two years later it remains unsettled, largely as a 
result of the dispute about the rebuild estimate. For the reasons above, AXA hasnt 
persuaded me thats something it needed in order to settle the claim. Whilst some 
investigation would always have been required to consider the claim, likely including one 
loss adjuster visit, and that would inevitably have taken some time to do, I think there 
remains a significant and avoidable delay handling this claim.
To put that right, Im satisfied AXA should pay compensation for the inconvenience caused 
to W. Its clear Mr Ms attention has been diverted away from the business to deal with this 
matter for far longer than ought to have happened. Im satisfied £500 compensation would 
be reasonable in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, AXA said it had previously sent us the wrong policy 
wording. It sent us the correct one and pointed to the average policy term, which says:
If at the time of damage the sum insured  is less than the value of the property 
insured, the amount we will pay will be reduced proportionately.
Its disappointing that AXA sent us the wrong policy wording initially. Id expect it to ensure 
all information submitted was correct, especially such an important document. But now that 
its sent the correct one, Ill reconsider things.
As I said in my provisional decision, AXA can only apply average if, amongst other things, it 
has a clearly worded term in its policy and it would be fair and reasonable to do so, bearing 
in mind the Insurance Act and any other relevant circumstances.
Whilst this policy term doesnt use the phrase declared value, it still uses the word value 
without defining it. Which could mean rebuild value or market value or some other value. So, 
for the same reasons as I gave in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded the term is 
clear enough for AXA to reduce the claim value on the basis it considers Mr M is 
underinsured in relation to the rebuild value.
Even putting that to one side, AXA has reduced the claim settlement because it says Mr M 
didnt provide the right information when he took out the policy in June 2021. And the 
relevant law for such a situation is the Insurance Act. AXA hasnt challenged or commented 
on my findings about that. So my finding that Mr M made a fair presentation of risk remains  
and accordingly my view that AXA has no remedy under the Act also remains. That means it 
didnt have the right to reduce the claim value at all under the relevant law.
Overall, I dont think the average term is sufficiently clear for AXA to rely upon it. And even if 
it was clear enough, I think the appropriate and fair way to look at the situation is to consider 
the Insurance Act  and under the Act, AXA has no right to reduce the claim value.
For these reasons, Im still satisfied it would be fair for AXA should settle the claim without 
making any deduction for what it considers to be underinsurance. All other policy terms and 
conditions remain.
Neither party challenged or commented on my view about compensation. So I see no reason 
to change it.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Settle the claim without making a deduction for underinsurance.
Pay £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman