DRN-4273531
The complaint
Mr C complains Lloyds Bank plc (Lloyds) failed to send him his closing bank account 
statements and when he complained about this, he was threatened by a member of staff. 
What happened
Mr C says he contacted Lloyds in April 2023, as he hadnt received his closing bank account 
statements. Mr C says he was assured these would be sent out in 7-10 days, but they didnt 
arrive. Mr C says he went to the branch again and was told to ring telephone banking as it 
would be quicker  but that team told him it couldnt order the closing statements and he 
needed to go back to the branch, Mr C says he wasnt happy with this and asked to speak to 
a manager. Mr C says when he spoke to the manager he was rude and threatening and 
wouldnt escalate the complaint. Mr C says he then called back and spoke to an advisor who 
said shed call back at a certain time but didnt do so and couldnt explain why he hadnt 
been called.
Mr C says he spoke to the complaints team who couldnt locate his details. Mr C says he 
was concerned about the threatening behaviour and reported it to the police and decided to 
stay with a relative, costing him time and money for taxi journeys. Mr C says while he has 
now finally received his closing bank statements, he doesnt feel the offer of compensation 
from Lloyds of £30 goes far enough for the trouble and upset he experienced. 
Lloyds says closing statements were sent on more than one occasion to Mr C and he may 
want to speak to the postal provider concerning this. Lloyds says it has listened to the call 
recording Mr C refers to and while it accepts the complaint could have been handled better 
at the time, it doesnt agree a threat was made to him. Lloyds says the team manager did try 
to call Mr C back as soon as possible, albeit that was 30 minutes later than shed agreed to. 
Lloyds accepted Mr C was on the telephone longer than expected because his complaint 
details hadnt been recorded correctly and sent a cheque for £30 for the poor service it 
provided.
Mr C wasnt happy with Lloyds response and referred the matter to this service. 
The adjudicator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
adjudicator didnt feel Lloyds acted fairly when it dealt with Mr Cs complaint and felt Lloyds 
had given conflicting information about how the closing statements could be ordered. The 
adjudicator also  felt while there was no evidence the manager dealing with the complaint 
had threatened Mr C, he could have escalated this matter sooner than he did. The 
adjudicator says while the call back was 30 minutes later than expected, it was made within 
a reasonable time. The adjudicator felt although Lloyds were unable to locate his complaint 
initially, this was corrected immediately.
The adjudicator felt that while Mr C had made numerous telephone calls chasing the 
outcome of his complaint, and this took some time, this was because Lloyds were looking 
into his complaint and had responded within an acceptable timescale. 
The adjudicator recommended Lloyds increased its offer of compensation to a total of £75.
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be partly upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have 
come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr C not to have received the closing 
bank statements he asked for on more than one occasion. When looking at this complaint I 
will consider if Lloyds were at fault for the closing bank statements not being received and if 
it could have dealt with this issue more professionally.  
Mr Cs complaint centres around the fact Lloyds didnt send him his closing bank statements 
and after various branch visits and lengthy phone calls, at the time he complained one of its 
managers was rude and threatening to him. 
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to 
repeat whats already been said other than to say Mr C doesnt feel Lloyds have adequately 
compensated him for the stress and upset he has gone through over this matter. 
Mr C particularly pointed out that when he spoke to a manager over the telephone, that 
manager was rude and threatened him, to the point he felt vulnerable and says he reported 
the matter to the police and felt he needed to stay with a family member given the manager 
held his address details. 
I have listened to the call recording Mr C refers to and its fair to say towards the end of the 
conversation, when Mr C was informed his only option was to revisit the branch, Mr C 
understandably became frustrated at the lack of progress being made. At this point during 
the conversation with Lloyds manager both parties began speaking over one another and 
this is when the manager says that the conversation was going around in circles and the 
conversation isnt going to go well. While Mr C says he has taken that comment as a threat, 
from what I heard the Lloyds manager was simply explaining there wasnt anything more he 
could do for Mr C. 
I do feel here however, that the manager during that phone call could have perhaps offered 
to liaise with the branch to organise the closing statements and taken a more sympathetic 
view regarding Mr Cs wish to lodge a complaint, rather than leaving it with Mr C to revisit the 
branch again to sort matters out. 
While like the adjudicator, I feel that Lloyds could have perhaps handled the situation better 
when Mr C raised this matter, and perhaps provided less than clear information concerning 
his closing bank statements, I cant say theres any evidence to suggest Lloyds staff 
threatened him which resulted in the actions Mr C felt he had to make and the costs that 
may have incurred.
So, like the adjudicator Im satisfied £75 is a fairer level of redress here, given Mr C was told 
misleading information on this matter, and taking into account Lloyds couldnt be held 
responsible for the fact the closing statements it originally sent never arrived. While Mr C will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair outcome here.
Putting things right
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to pay Mr C a total of £75 for the trouble and upset caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Lloyds Bank plc to pay Mr C a total of £75 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman