DRN-3712816
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to do more to protect him when making 
payments as a result of a fraud. He would like HSBC to reimburse the funds lost.
What happened
Mr D met a third-party via an online dating platform. Eventually they exchanged telephone 
numbers and began speaking via a messaging platform. 
While getting to know each other, the third-party disclosed that they were a successful 
cryptocurrency investor. They began showing Mr D their successes and persuaded him to 
get involved. 
He was instructed to download an online investment platform and started paying smaller 
sums into the account. Initially, Mr D started with a £1000 investment, paid via his HSBC 
account. This saw good returns in a relatively short period of time: and these were paid back 
to Mr D. 
Convinced that the investment was legitimate, as hed seen returns, Mr D continued to invest 
a further £35,500 in multiple payments from his HSBC account over the course of two 
months. Initially, Mr D did receive some returns back. But when he attempted to make his 
final withdrawal from the online investment platform, he was informed his account had been 
suspended. 
Mr D made contact with the investment platform and was told hed have to pay a number of 
fines and taxes to withdraw the balance locked in the account. Mr D became suspicious and 
carried out some research  eventually realising hed fallen victim to a fraud. So, he reported 
it to HSBC. 
HSBC looked into Mr Ds claim but declined it. It pointed out that as Mr D had paid a genuine 
cryptocurrency wallet that was legitimately held in his name, it wouldnt treat the matter as 
fraud from the point he paid the money from his HSBC account. 
Mr D, unhappy with this response, referred his complaint to our service where it was 
reviewed by an Investigator. After considering the evidence provided by both parties, the 
Investigator concluded that HSBC could have done more to protect Mr D. Broadly, the 
Investigator highlighted that the fifth payment made to the cryptocurrency platform for £9,000 
ought to have caused HSBC some concern. The Investigator felt that had HSBC intervened, 
it likely could have broken the spell of the fraud and prevented any further payments. They 
also considered if Mr D contributed to his loss through negligence: but felt he hadnt. 
The Investigator recommended that HSBC refund Mr D all payments made from the £9,000 
payment: totalling £24,500 (plus 8% simple annual interest). They also recommended it pay 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused from not treating the matter as fraud. 
HSBC disagreed for a number of reasons. Some of these include, but are not limited to: 
The scam took place at the point in which Mr D transferred his funds from his 
cryptocurrency wallet and not from the point hed transferred funds from his HSBC 
account.
Even had it intervened in the payment(s), it wouldnt have prevented the fraud. Mr D 
was taken in by the fraud and had received returns.
Mr Ds employment and investment experience ought to have prompted him to carry 
out more research on the investment and platform. 
Mr D ignored obvious red flags regarding the place hed been introduced to the third-
party and the fact hed never met them face to face. 
It felt the returns received by Mr D should be taken into consideration with any 
redress. 
As HSBC disagreed with the Investigators assessment and recommendations, the matter 
was passed to me for a decision. On the 11 November 2022 I issued provision findings to 
both parties, these were set out as follows:
Its common ground here that Mr D authorised the payments in dispute. He was duped by 
the fraudsters into making the payments to his cryptocurrency wallet and sending this on to 
the fraudsters. I accept that these were authorised payments even though Mr D was the 
victim of a fraud. And although he didnt intend the money to go to fraudsters, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts, and any payments made or received, to counter 
various risks, including money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism and 
preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk (among other things). This is particularly 
so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, which banks are generally 
more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases 
declined to make the payment altogether. To help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Were the payments Mr D made unusual or out of character? 
As Ive highlighted above, banks are expected to be on the lookout for out of character and 
unusual transactions that may indicate a customer is at risk. However, it must also balance 
this against its obligation to process payments in line with its customers instructions and the 
terms and conditions of the account. I acknowledge that this can at times be a difficult 
balance to strike.
When considering Mr Ds account activity, Im minded to agree with the Investigators 
conclusions that at the point Mr D made the £9,000 payment, it ought to have reasonably 
been concerned. Mr D regularly made bank transfers and card payments for over £1,000 
from his account. And hed even previously made transfersalbeit less frequentlyfor over 
£2,000. So, I dont think the initial card payment for £1,000, or the subsequent faster 
payments of £4,000 and £3,000 were particularly unusual when comparing this to Mr Ds 
normal account activity. 
However, at the point Mr D had made the £9,000 payment, this saw a sudden and sharp increase in his normal account expenditure. And, at this point, hed made a substantial 
number of payments to a cryptocurrency platform (circa £17,000) over the course of less 
than a month. This was also not a payee Mr D had transacted with prior to this activity. 
Would intervention have prevented the fraud? 
HSBC has made valid submissions that Mr D was clearly taken in by the fraud. Having 
looked through the messages between Mr D and the third-party, its clear that they worked 
slowly to gain his trust and werent too pushy in him participating in the cryptocurrency 
trading at first. 
It's also important to point out that Mr D had received returns from the investment; another 
factor that no doubt brought a sense of legitimacy to it. But these factors also impress the 
importance and impact that intervention can have in breaking such spells. 
Had an intervention taken place, there were some clear red flags here that HSBC likely 
would have identified and pointed out to Mr D. Mr D wasnt an experienced cryptocurrency 
investor. And without evidence to the contrary, hadnt been victim to any form of investment 
fraud before. I think a professional bodysuch as HSBChighlighting some of the red flags 
present would likely have made Mr D take a step back and look into things more. I think this 
likely would have caused him to question what he was doing and broken some of the 
sophisticated social engineering tactics hed been subjected to: such as receiving returns. 
Mr Ds circumstances shared a number of commonalities with a well-known fraud method, 
and Im minded to say that HSBC likely would have identified this through intervention and 
Mr D disclosing the circumstances surrounding it. 
For the above reasons, Im minded to say that on the balance of probabilities HSBC likely 
would have been able to prevent further payments had it intervened and provided effective 
warnings and advice on these types of frauds. 
Should Mr D bear some responsibility for his loss? 
While I feel HSBC could have likely prevented the fraud from continuing, Im also minded to 
say that Mr D should bear equal responsibility for his loss. 
Having read the messages between Mr D and the fraudster, I think Mr D ignored red flags, 
and, at times, his own instinct about the validity of the application hed downloaded. 
HSBC has made submissions that Mr D was effectively placing his trust in a person hed 
never even met. But the circumstances around their virtual meeting were coincidentally in 
line with the pandemic and restrictions that prevented people outside of their own support 
bubble to meet up. The fraudster clearly preyed on these circumstances to justify why they 
were unable to meet Mr D. However, there were occasions before restrictions began, and 
during breaks in these restrictions, where they were able to meet. And despite Mr Ds 
attempts to arrange this, these requests were either ignored in the chat or excuses were 
made as to why it wasnt possible. 
Im also minded to say that Mr D carried out little to no research on the company prior to 
deciding to invest. Mr D says that he thought the business was legitimate as the application 
did bear the name of a genuine overseas based bank. But I dont think its likely Mr D 
researched this business until after he realised hed been defrauded. 
Throughout the chat Mr D had with the fraudster, neither party referred to the genuine bank 
Mr D thought the app related to. Instead, it was referred to as an acronym of the genuine bank. I think its likely had Mr D thought this application related to the genuine bank, he, or 
the fraudster, would have mentioned this in the chat. I also dont find it likely he would have 
asked the applications customer services how long the business had been operating for. 
Furthermore, basic research on the website of the genuine bank shows that they have an 
application for download on the app store Mr D used and trusted. So had any basic research 
taken place, its likely Mr D would have spotted this and questioned the legitimacy of the 
application he was asked to download. 
Im also minded to say that Mr D ignored further red flags such as: 
A circa 10% bonus for amounts topped up on the account was offered as part of a 
promotional package for investing. Im minded to say this was unrealistic and should 
have struck Mr D as too good to be true.
Mr D eventually ignored his initial instincts regarding the application not being safe 
considering it wasnt available within the legitimate application store he normally 
used; this indicated a lack of trust in the investment platform overall. 
For the above reasons, Im minded to say that Mr D was equally responsible for his loss and 
should therefore take responsibility for half the funds HSBC likely could have prevented 
being paid. I mean no discourtesy to Mr D in this assessment as I acknowledge he was 
victim to a sophisticated and cruel scam, but I must be fair to both parties and acknowledge 
where he could have done more to ensure he was dealing with a legitimate business.
Both parties were given until 25 November 2022 to provide any further comments and 
evidence in response to the provisional findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have responded before the deadline set, Im now in a position to issue my 
final decision on this matter.
Both Mr D and HSBC have both responded to my provisional findings stating that they have 
nothing further to add. I therefore see no reason to depart from the findings set out in my 
provisional decision and have nothing further to address or add.
Putting things right
HSBC should now go ahead and refund the payments made from the £9,000 payment on 24 
January 2021. This totals £24,500. But it should deduct 50% from this to reflect the 
contributory factors Ive mentioned above. I also agree with HSBC that Mr Ds returns 
should be taken into consideration here. 
Prior to the £9,000 payment, Mr D had made a number of withdrawals from his 
cryptocurrency wallet to his HSBC account from the returns hed purportedly made. As both 
parties are in agreement that this matter was a fraud, I dont think its reasonable that Mr D 
should benefit from the fake returns he received from the fraudster. 
Ive calculated the payments to and from his cryptocurrency wallet and note that Mr D 
benefitted from £466.79 in returns. This should also be deducted from the total amount 
reimbursed. This equates to a total of £11,783.21 to be reimbursed. HSBC could have likely prevented the payments from taking place: so it should include 
interest from the point of each payment. Mr D has told our service that £1,500 of the funds 
hed sent were funded from a loan from a family member. As Mr D wasnt deprived of his 
own funds here, I dont think an interest award is appropriate. This amount was transferred 
to his account on 2 February 2021. But HSBC should pay 8% simple annual interest on the 
remaining funds that Mr D lost from the date of payment, to the date of settlement. 
Ive also considered if HSBC should pay the £150 compensation payment recommended by 
the Investigator for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think its important to highlight 
that a vast majority of the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D here has ultimately 
been caused by the person committing the fraud against him. But I do agree that HSBC 
could have handled Mr Ds claim better in acknowledging him as a victim. It did address this 
in a further response dated 8 April 2021. But I do think it should have offered compensation 
to reflect this error and the impact caused. 
Mr D was already distressed by the situation hed found himself in   and this no doubt 
exacerbated the impact caused. Therefore, I feel the £150 suggested by the Investigator as 
compensation for this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank Plc to:
Refund Mr D £11,783.21 of the funds lost.
Apply 8% simple annual interest from the date of each payment to the date of 
settlement  with exception of £1,500 from the final two payments.
Pay £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman