DRN-4365265
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Beacon Wealth Management Limited (Beacon) mis-sold her a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) which doesnt meet her objectives 
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
On 29 November 2021, Mrs P met with a financial adviser from Beacon. She sought 
financial advice because she wanted to transfer her pension to a plan which would allow 
access to her funds through drawdown. Her existing pension provider had said she needed 
to obtain financial advice to facilitate a move to such a product and she says she 
approached Beacon as it was located near to where she lives.
Beacon acquired the necessary information about Mrs Ps circumstances and details of her 
existing pension. It provided a recommendation to switch her existing pension to the 
Standard Life Wrap SIPP and invest into the Beacon Wealth Ethical 2 portfolio.
In March 2022, Mrs P queried the recommendation with Beacon Wealth challenging its 
suitability on the grounds of her objective being to obtain flexible access to her funds through 
drawdown. Mrs P felt the plan Beacon had arranged a complex investment, with higher 
charges and requiring her to retain their services to manage it.
Beacon Wealth responded supporting its recommendation and discounting the other 
alternatives Mrs P had mentioned. It suggested that once the transfer had completed Mrs P 
could disengage them as servicing advisers and then she could manage the investment 
directly. It also said if she didnt proceed, she would need to pay the consultancy fee.
Mrs P told this service she felt she was left with no choice but to follow their recommendation 
as the alternative would have been to pay Beacon Wealths consultancy fee and then pay for 
advice from another financial adviser, which she could not afford. The transfer then took 
place, and her existing pension was transferred to Standard Life Wrap SIPP.
In January 2023, Mrs P complained to Beacon. She was worried about the switch and its 
current value. She felt the SIPP was invested into a number of funds making arranging any 
withdrawal of benefits under drawdown complex and tied her into paying on-going fees to 
Beacon Wealth for them to manage.
In March 2023, Beacon issued its final response. In summary they didnt uphold her 
complaint. They said the recommendation was suitable for Mrs Ps needs and met her 
attitude towards risk. Beacon felt the product had been fully explained and was performing 
well. It also made reference to Mrs P previously working as a pensions adviser and this 
seems to have been seen as an indication that she had significant knowledge of pensions 
and investments.
Mrs P remained unhappy and referred her complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mrs P. In his view he could see Mrs P was consistent in 
her testimony that her objective was to move her pension funds to a plan which offered 
drawdown, so she had better flexibility with her retirement income. Her existing provider 
offered such a plan but wasnt able to move her existing provision to a flexible drawdown 
option until Mrs P had sought advice. The investigator also noted that the same objective 
was repeatedly indicated in both the advisers meeting notes and the fact find.
The investigator also didnt find anything in the information provided that suggested Mrs P 
was looking for a discretionary fund management service. He noted this seemed to have 
been the basis for the advice provided to her with no consideration if this service was 
suitable for her.
He also looked at the costs and charges of Mrs Ps existing provision and the comparison 
with the recommended plan. He noted Mrs P was being transferred to a plan which would 
incur higher costs, including those for on-going advice, and he didnt find this reasonable 
when her objective was to obtain flexible access to her pension through drawdown.
On balance he found that Mrs P would more likely than not have invested in a lower cost 
more suitable and simplified by comparison drawdown plan that would have met her 
objectives and her needs had she not been advised otherwise. In his view he agreed the 
advice wasnt suitable and asked Beacon to put matters right.
Mrs P accepted the investigators findings.
Beacon did not. In summary it said:
The recommended portfolio was consistent with Mrs Ps attitude to risk
The portfolio of funds it recommended does not detract from, or make it difficult to 
extract funds, as any encashment or withdrawal is automatically taken across the 
spread of funds.
It is not offering outsourced Discretionary Managed Funds. It says it is an in-house 
investment team who manage the portfolio service for the clients and as such doesnt 
consider that this service is just for high-net-worth individuals.
It does not believe the charging structure is high. It says if the fees on the plan are 
deemed too high it could move the plan into a low-cost cautious fund and remove the 
1% fee as it would no longer manage the portfolio. The new cost would be below the 
former costs of the previous provider, and Mrs P could manage it herself.
With regard to putting things right it believes the suggested comparison fund was not 
a fair alternative due to the much higher risk rating that would be comparable for Mrs 
Ps attitude to risk as a cautious investor.
Beacon asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional findings, I reached the said I was minded to uphold this complaint.
I explained that as Beacon was providing regulated investment advice to Mrs P, it was 
required to provide suitable advice, which is reflected in the Regulators rules on providing 
such advice. These rules were set out in COBS (Conduct of Business Sourcebook), and in 
particular in COBS 9.2 - assessing suitability.
Broadly speaking, that section sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to 
undertake a fact find process. Once the fact finding was complete, COBS 9.4.7R required a 
business to explain why the firm has concluded that the recommended transaction is 
suitable for the client" - in other words, it needed to provide its client with a suitability report 
outlining its advice and the reasons for it.I said in 2009 the regulator published a checklist for pension switching. It highlighted four key 
issues it thought should be focussed on 
 Charges (has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?)
 Existing benefits (has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason?)
 Risk  (has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match them recorded 
ATR and personal circumstances?) and
 Ongoing fund management (has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews, but this was not explained, offered or put in place?) 
I said that having considered all the evidence available, I wasnt persuaded that the advice to 
transfer the pensions was suitable in the circumstances. 
I explained my starting point here was Mrs Ps motivation to seek advice. It is clear from the 
beginning Mrs P was only seeking advice because she wated to transfer her existing 
arrangement to a flexi-drawdown to access as and when she needed to. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think Mrs P would have arranged that with her existing provider were it not for the 
fact she was instructed she needed to seek advice first.
A SIPP is generally suitable for consumers who need access to a range of investments and 
funds not normally available via a basic pension wrapper. Its also typically suitable for 
individuals who need to have their monies managed in a bespoke, or discretionary style. 
Usually, a straight-forward stakeholder or personal pension may be more suitable for 
consumers who have only modest funds and non-complex needs. Thats ordinarily because 
often, although not always, its cheaper for the consumer.
Having sought the advice, the suitability report records both Mrs P and her husband as 
retired and living off their savings which they chose not to disclose. Her husband was due to 
claim his final salary pension benefits, and this would meet their basic expenditure. The 
switch was to facilitate a drawdown option for one of Mrs Ps pensions to allow for one off 
luxuries such as holidays.
Mrs P reported a low-medium attitude to risk indicating she was prepared to take some risk 
for growth. There was no indication in any of the information that Mrs P sought investment 
within a discretionary managed fund whereas the evidence suggests as this was what 
Beacon offered, this was the recommendation.
This is evident in the suitability report on page 5 which says:
An internal switch could be made to the existing providers retirement account, which offers 
flexi access drawdown. This option has been discounted due to our inability to actively 
manage this scheme using our preferred fund choice, and therefore manage your pension 
effectively.
In my view, the fact that Beacon could not manage the fund within her existing providers 
provision is not a valid reason for discounting it.
The Suitability letter explained the benefits of a discretionary portfolio. But I said I couldnt 
see that Beacon properly explored and discounted why they didnt recommend a basic, cost-
effective managed fund to Mrs P, similar to what she was already invested in. Its letter said 
the reasons the new plan was recommended were:
 Mrs P could invest in a wide range of investment funds that have the potential for growth   
over the longer term The death benefits are completely tax free before the age of 75 when paid to your 
beneficiaries and only taxable at their marginal rate of tax after 75.
 When taking benefits there are no restrictions on the amount of money you can withdraw at 
any one time.
 Our investment team are to be able to vary the underlying funds and risks within the 
pension to reflect any changes in your personal circumstances.
But these reasons do not explain why a DFM was suitable. There are many low-cost 
managed funds on the market covering a range of risk profiles that offer a broad spectrum of 
differing underlying investments which are professionally managed that wouldve met Mrs 
Ps needs that wouldnt need her continual input. 
I also reflected on whether the DFM solution may have been suitable because the adviser 
was aware of other factors about the customer that may, for example, have justified 
investing in a bespoke portfolio. The Suitability letter and notes are silent on whether Mrs P 
was potentially coming into further monies in the near future such as a large inheritance that 
may have warranted a DFM over a packaged product. If anything, the suggestion was that 
both Mrs P and her husband would be living off their retirement income and although they 
had savings, the amount was not disclosed, and they were using them at present to live off. 
So, at the time of the advice there was nothing to suggest the DFM was either suitable for 
her current or future needs.
Furthermore, I pointed to the value of Mrs Ps existing fund being a lower value than I would 
expect for a recommendation of this nature. As our investigator pointed out, a discretionary 
fund management service is usually for high-net-worth clients who have a moderately sized 
portfolio and sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the underlying investments. 
Mrs Ps pension portfolio was modest in size and not one that we would generally consider 
suitable for investment through a discretionary fund management service. Beacon says 
because it carries out the fund management in house, it isnt just for high-net-worth 
individuals. Im not sure what it means by this statement. Whether a discretionary fund is 
managed in-house or outsourced, one would still usually see this service for high-net-worth 
clients seeking active management of multiple funds. Mrs P has made no such request or 
even suggested this was important to her.
Charges
I explained that charges play a very important part when considering whether its in the 
consumers best interest to switch their pension or not. Whilst they cant be viewed in 
isolation, higher costs would generally point towards being a good reason not to move. So, 
that means thered need to be other, more compelling reasons to justify a switch. Mrs Ps 
existing plan was costing her approximately 0.95% per annum. She wasnt paying for an 
ongoing service. Beacons recommendation totalled 2.18%, increasing her costs by around 
129.47%. The new costs were significantly higher than her existing arrangements. Taking 
the annual increased costs into account, would take many years of consistent 
outperformance over her existing funds to make the increased costs worthwhile. Importantly, 
just because a firm has explained what the costs are to a consumer, it doesnt then make the 
recommendation suitable.
Beacon has also said Mrs P previously working as a pensions adviser and this seems to 
have been seen as an indication that she had significant knowledge of pensions and 
investments. But Mrs P explained she used to work for a pensions administrator so, 
although she has some knowledge and experience from this, I said I agreed with the 
investigator that this doesnt constitute the level of knowledge expected of a pensions 
adviser. And, as the investigator said there is no reference to her previous employment in any of the correspondence from Beacon, at the time of the advice, which could have made 
Mrs P aware of this misconception and allowed her to correct it.
The adviser did state in the suitability letter if anything did not coincide with Mrs Ps view of 
the situation, she should contact them, and this is exactly what Mrs P did. She contacted the 
adviser to query the recommendation on the basis she wasnt looking for a complex 
investment in multiple funds or on-going advice but rather a simple plan, such as a 
stakeholder plan, with the flexibility of drawdown. The response she received was that the 
advice and product were still suitable, and she could remove them as advisers once the 
transfer completed if she no longer wanted Beacons services.
I said having seen all the information available, Im not persuaded the recommendation to 
transfer her existing pension plan to a SIPP within a discretionary fund was suitable advice 
for Mrs P and so I said I was minded to uphold her complaint and ask Beacon to put things 
right.
Mrs P accepted my provisional findings.
Beacon did not. It said:
The Standard Life SIPP that it recommended wasnt a true SIPP but rather was more akin to 
a personal pension
It isnt a DFM, rather it has an in-house management with permissions to choose funds in 
each plan and points out there is a difference. It also believes this offering is suited to 
investors with lower net values than a recognised DFM.
It doesnt agree the benchmark identified as a suitable comparison is reflective of Mrs Ps 
attitude to risk.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent been presented with any new evidence in submissions to 
persuade me to alter my provisional findings and so it follows I have reached the same 
conclusion.
I have carefully considered the submissions brought by Beacon and I understand the points 
it raises but Im not in agreement that this makes the advice it provided to Mrs P suitable. 
Beacon has argued that it isnt strictly a DFM, so Ive carefully considered its submission.
I accept that Beacon does not hold DFM permissions with the regulator. Beacon has an 
inhouse management team that acts in a sort of quasi DFM role. It issued a discretionary 
investment management agreement. In it states:
Discretionary Portfolio Service
Under the Discretionary Fund Management Service, decisions relating to the day-to-day 
management of the Client's portfolio ("the Portfolio") will be at the discretion of the Company 
although subject to the investment objectives and guidelines agreed with the Client. This will 
include, but not be limited to, the sale and/or purchase of investments, the determination of appropriate asset class weightings (between, bonds, equities, alternative strategies/hedge 
funds, property and cash). No correspondence or communication will be entered into with 
the Client prior to the implementation of investment decisions, however, notification of the 
switch/rebalance completed and the reasoning behind the decision made will be sent shortly 
afterwards via our mutually agreed communication method.
So, Beacon made it clear that its recommendations were based upon it making all the 
investment decisions for Mrs P in line with her attitude to risk with any reasoning for 
decisions sent after the fact and importantly this is a service which Mrs P would be paying 
for.
But in her email to Beacon following the recommendation Mrs P said:
Could you please confirm that the only option Beacon Is prepared to offer me for transfer of 
my existing pension is a SiPP? With regard to Stakeholder pensions and personal pensions, 
both of these are available from Standard Life, the same provider as for the Illustrated SIPP 
and both allow transfers in. I can only assume from this that no other option has been 
considered  even though I made plain what I wanted both at our meeting and in various 
messages, I do not want a SIPP, I want a drawdown stakeholder or personal pension that I 
can access myself immediately on transfer and is straightforward to manage and lower-risk
Beacon responded and said:
Beacon offer financial planning and wealth management services. Our recommendation is 
based on what we believe is the best route to achieve your objectives and combines these 
two features but there is a route whereby it is possible for you to disengage us as servicing 
advisers and instruct the provider direct should you wish.
Beacon recommended a plan with twenty different funds. It seems more likely to me, given 
the size of her fund she would likely only need a simple, single, low-cost managed fund. By 
having multiple funds in the offering, although this would spread her risk, it would take more 
management, which she didnt need and actually clearly said she didnt want.
The fact that after raising the complaint Beacon has said it will withdraw this service and its 
ongoing charges does not alter the recommendation in the first place. This does not fit with 
Mrs Ps objectives. She asked for a simple drawdown product, she did not need or want a 
fund managed on her behalf. And that also begs the question if Beacon is recommending 
this product as it will manage the investments on her behalf, but then withdrawing the very   
service it recommended.
The charges for the recommended scheme were also significantly higher and there is no 
explanation as to why Mrs P needed to transfer to a scheme that would cost her more 
money when she wanted to commence income drawdowns.
So given the size of the fund and Mrs Ps clear instructions, I find it more she likely than not 
that she only needed a simple, single, low-cost managed fund. So, on balance taking all 
these factors into account, I dont agree that the advice was suitable. 
Beacon have also challenged the benchmark index I have suggested for calculating any 
redress. Its starting point is to use a universal score allocated by an independent body 
called Trustnet with the FE fund info Risk Scores. The recommended portfolio has a score of 
43 in comparison with its benchmark (IA Mixed Investment 0-35%), which is 38 and is 
regarded as cautious in line with the requirements of Mrs P. The benchmark fund I have 
used has a score of 54 in comparison to the sector score of 38 which would be regarded as 
a higher risk and therefore inappropriate to the client given the high equity content and 
potential volatility.It is fair to say I havent used the same universal scoring system. This service uses 
benchmark indices based upon one which is reflective overall of Ps attitude to investing. I 
have considered an alternative lower risk benchmark but because Mrs P was assessed as a 
low to medium risk investor, rather than cautious investor, I am of the view that the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return was more suitable because it is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Im 
persuaded its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. When I consider the twenty funds in the recommended portfolio, Im of the 
view the benchmark index I have directed is nearer in comparison than a the 50:50 index as 
the alternative. 
I am persuaded from the information available that Mrs P would have invested differently if 
all the options available had been considered.
It follows that I intend to uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Had she received suitable advice, in my view Mrs P would more than likely not have stayed 
with her existing provider making an internal switch to a product that would have offered her 
the flexibility she was seeking. But as its not possible to assess precisely how she would 
have invested; I have sought to be pragmatic in my approach and assume her investment 
had performed in line with a benchmark which broadly reflects the level of risk she was 
prepared and able to accept.
I appreciate Beacon has challenged the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index as a suitable comparison index and I have thought carefully about whether this is 
comparable to Mrs Ps stated attitude towards risk, and I think it is.
Im persuaded its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
I have considered the advisers fees and its here that I differ from the view of our 
investigator. The redress calculation will take account of the advisers fees that were 
deducted from the investment at inception, and this will put Mrs P back in the position she 
would have been in. So, if Mrs P were to then seek advice she would be doing so as she 
was required to do, should she wish to transfer her pension and as such I dont find it fair 
that Beacon bears those costs. I havent included further advice fees then within my redress.
Im also going to direct Beacon to pay Mrs P £100 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused.
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs P as close as possible 
to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice. As I 
have said, Im persuaded Mrs P would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what she would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mrs Ps circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What should Beacon do?
To compensate Mrs P fairly it should:
Compare the performance of Mrs P's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Beacon should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, it should pay into Mrs P's pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt pay the compensation into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If it is unable to pay the compensation into Mrs P's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mrs P wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs P's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mrs P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer as she is 
already retired and hasnt indicated otherwise, so the reduction would equal 20%. 
However, if Mrs P would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction 
should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 
15%.
In addition, Beacon should pay Mrs P £100 for the inconvenience caused in having to 
challenge the advice provided and the concern she experienced following the 
transfer to an overly complex pension plan.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs P in a clear, simple format.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Pension plan Still exists 
liquidFTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return IndexDate of 
investment 
into new 
Beacon planDate of my 
final decision8% simple 
per year if 
Beacon has 
not paid any 
redress due 
within 30 
days of the 
decision.
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs P wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mrs P's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct Beacon Wealth Management 
Limited to undertake the redress as detailed in the Putting Things Right section of my 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman