DRN-4037528
The complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about his mortgage with Santander UK Plc. He is unhappy that since his 
last interest rate product ended his mortgage has been on Santanders standard variable 
rate (SVR) of interest, when there was an alternative, lower, follow-on rate (FoR) available, 
but he wasnt told about it. Mr F believes that his arrears would not be of the amount they 
are if hed been offered the FoR earlier.
Mr F has relatives that have authority on the mortgage account, but for simplicity, I will refer 
to all contacts and discussions as having been with him.
What happened
Mr F and his former partner took out a repayment mortgage in 2005, which was converted to 
an interest-only basis at their request in 2006. Attached to it was a two-year interest rate 
product. This was replaced by further interest rate products, with the mortgage reverting to 
SVR at the end of the final ones term. 
In January 2018 Santander introduced the new FoR. The FoR tracks the Bank of England 
base rate. Mortgages with interest rate products sold after this date would automatically 
revert to the FoR, but those sold before that date would still revert to SVR. However, if a 
customer reverted to SVR or had already done so, they could ask to change to FoR. This 
was explained to Mr F in his annual statements from 2018 onwards:
If youre already on SVR the FoR is available for you to consider as an option now. You can 
review all the deals available to you by visiting our online mortgage transfer service at 
Santander.co.uk/changing-deals, or by calling us on 0800 085 1352
At the time the FoR was introduced, Mr F wasnt consistently maintaining the payments to 
his account, but the amount of arrears was usually less than one months payment and the 
arrears were cleared at times. He was talking to Santander throughout and explained that 
this was because he was receiving payments slightly later than expected from clients or hed 
been out of the country and hadnt been able to make the payment. There was no indication 
that Mr F was in financial difficulties.
However, in March 2020 that situation changed. Mr F has since confirmed that due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic he wasnt working, which caused arrears to build on his account. While 
Mr F has confirmed the reason for this more recently, it doesnt appear that he spoke to 
Santander at the time, nor did he ask for the payment deferrals that would have been 
available to him. 
It was not until October 2020 that Mr F began to speak to Santander about payments to the 
mortgage. It offered to go through an affordability exercise to see what it could do to assist, 
but Mr F didnt want to do so and simply wanted to make payments. Santander suggested 
an assessment of his income and expenditure be done several times before June 2021, but 
Mr F didnt agree to do so. 
In June 2021 two more in-depth conversations were had about Mr Fs situation, at which 
time the existence of the FoR was mentioned to Mr F. He was given the telephone number 
to call to make arrangements for the rate to be changed, and he did so in September 2021. 
Mr F also complained about his mortgage at that time  that the account had been passed to 
Santanders litigation team and that he hadnt been offered the FoR earlier. Santander 
responded in a final response letter of 8 September 2021, in which it explained that its 
financial support team doesnt offer customers interest rate products as a solution to 
financial difficulty; he would have needed to ask for a new rate. In addition, it commented 
that it had asked Mr F a number of times to complete a budget planner so it could look into 
his situation and see what it could do to help, but he hadnt done so.
The offer document for the FoR to be attached to Mr Fs mortgage was sent to him on 
16 September 2021. Santander agreed to the acceptance just being signed by him, given 
the situation with his ex-partner, but it asked him to return the hard copy acceptance, and 
provided a stamped addressed envelope for him to do so. Mr F sent an electronic copy of 
the acceptance with a typed signature, but didnt return the original and so the FoR wasnt 
attached to his mortgage. It was not until February 2022, following new paperwork being 
sent to Mr F, that Santander received a hard copy acceptance. The FoR was attached to the 
mortgage at that point. 
Mr F referred the complaint to this service as he was not satisfied with the response from 
Santander. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. Mr F didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He remained of the view that 
Santander had not treated him fairly and asked the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
He said that he thought Santander should take all possible actions to assist customers in 
arrears and he should have been told about the FoR by the people he was dealing with.  
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion and so the complaint has been 
passed to me for consideration.
I issued a provisional decision on 22 February 2023 in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
The Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (known as MCOB) 
sets out at MCOB 13 what lenders are required to do to help borrowers in arrears. The 
Council of Mortgage Lenders (CML) also has its own guidelines about what it expects 
lenders to do to comply with MCOB, which mirror closely the requirements of MCOB.
A lender is required to explore ways to resolve an arrears situation, especially if the problem 
that created the arrears to begin with is one that looks to be short-term and capable of being 
resolved. For long-term difficulties, a lender must also look at other ways to help, such as 
transferring a mortgage from capital and interest repayment to interest-only, deferring 
interest for a period of time or capitalisation of arrears. Providing an interest rate product 
might also be a fair way of the lender helping in some circumstances. Balanced against that 
is the lenders obligation to ensure that any arrangement is affordable and sustainable. 
However, whatever a lender does must actually help to solve the underlying problem, rather 
than just delaying the inevitable.
In this case Mr F has said that he thinks Santander should have offered him the FoR earlier 
than it did. I am not persuaded in the particular circumstances of this case that it should 
have, and I will explain why. It is often the case for consumers in arrears that it is not appropriate for a new interest rate 
product to be attached to their mortgage. This is because alongside the benefit of a lower 
interest rate, there is the risk associated with such products in that there is usually an early 
repayment charge associated with them. This charge can be up to 5% of the mortgage 
balance, and there is also often a fee associated with taking a rate. This can considerably 
increase the amount owed if a mortgage needs to be repaid within the term of the interest 
rate product, and so a lender would need to assess what the risk of that event happening 
was before deciding to grant such a rate.
However, the FoR was a lower rate than the SVR that Mr Fs mortgage was on, but it didnt 
come with any of the downsides most interest rate products do. As such, I consider that it 
would have been appropriate for Santander to have considered offering Mr F this rate as 
part of any forbearance arrangements agreed. 
This, however, is where I am likely to disappoint Mr F. Until March 2020, as I have said, the 
arrears on the account were relatively small and Mr Fs explanations for the delay in 
payments and shortfall payments didnt indicate there was an affordability issue, rather he 
had some cash-flow issues, or he was absent from the country and so couldnt make 
payments. So during this period, I am not persuaded that Santander needed to enter into 
any discussions about helping him and putting forbearance measures in place. That said, I 
note that Mr F had been told about the FoR in the information provided with his annual 
statements in 2018 and 2019 and so could have asked for it to be applied to his mortgage 
during this period had he wanted to.
That situation changed in 2020 and, based on what he has said, Mr F was in financial 
difficulties. However, he didnt speak to Santander about the situation for some time and 
when he did, he wasnt interested in entering into a dialogue about what Santander could do 
to assist. A lender can only do so much and until a consumer engages in the process it isnt 
able to make any suggestions for what it can do to help. Mr F was told an income and 
expenditure (affordability) exercise needed to be done in the first call he made to it after his 
difficulties started. He declined to do so and while it was again suggested by Santander 
whenever Mr F contacted it subsequently, this exercise didnt take place until June 2021. It 
was at this point that Santander mentioned the FoR rate and told Mr F how to have it 
attached to his mortgage. In the circumstances, I cant find that Santander was wrong not to 
have mentioned the FoR to Mr F before that date to assist with his financial difficulties. 
Mr F asked that his mortgage be changed to the FoR in September 2021. While there was a 
significant delay in the mortgage being converted to the FoR after Mr F asked for that to 
happen, I am not persuaded that this was Santanders fault. Santander made it clear that in 
the circumstances it needed Mr F to return a signed acceptance in hard copy. It even 
provided a stamped addressed envelope to facilitate this happening. When he didnt do so, 
Santander reminded him of its requirements and told him that it hadnt converted the 
mortgage. It was, however, several months before Mr F provided the necessary 
documentation. I dont think based on the evidence available Santander did anything wrong 
in this regard.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. However, I am satisfied that the letters 
and emails were sent to correct addresses and from which we have received responses 
during the course of our investigation, and so are valid. We also contacted Mr F to ensure 
that he had received the provisional decision, he didnt tell us that he hadnt, as I would have 
expected if that had been the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the file again in its entirety and I have revisited my provisional decision. 
Having done so, and in light of no further comment being made by the parties, I see no 
reason to alter my conclusions. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 
19 April 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman