DRN-4275821
The complaint
Mr A complains about Simplyhealth Accesss refusal to cover his daughters treatment under 
a dental insurance group scheme.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The policy excludes orthodontic treatment that is graded one to three on the Index of 
Orthodontic Treatment Need (IOTN). We havent been provided with evidence from 
the dentist, but Mr A told Simplyhealth that his daughters treatment was graded by 
the treating dentist as IOTN three. 
Mr A is unhappy with the dentists grading of the treatment, as a previous NHS 
dentist had apparently graded the treatment as IOTN four (which is covered under 
the policy). However, its not for Simplyhealth to decide how treatment should be 
graded, that is down to the dentist. Simplyhealth has confirmed that the dentist does 
not work for it, and that it is not involved in the day-to-day management of the 
practice, including the provision of treatment.
I think it was appropriate for Simplyhealth to say that any claims decision would be 
based on the opinion of the dentist who carried out the treatment, even if a previous 
dentist thought the treatment should be graded differently. 
Based on Mr As explanation that the dentist who carried out the treatment graded it 
as IOTN three, Im satisfied it was correct for Simplyhealth to say that a claim 
wouldnt be covered under the policy.  
I note Mr A makes the point that he learnt how the treatment had been graded after 
he had signed the paperwork with the dentist. If he has any concerns about this, he 
should raise these directly with the dentist. 
For these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman