DRN-3572403
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lowell Financial Ltd (Lowell) is unfairly seeking to collect debts from him
What happened
Lowell has three accounts in Mr Bs name. Lowell said it purchased a credit card from the 
original lender (C) in February 2016 and sent Mr B a notice of assignment to confirm the new 
arrangements. 
Lowell purchased two credit card debts in Mr Bs name from a different lender (L) in 
November 2016. Lowell went on to send Mr B notices of assignment confirming the change 
in ownership of the accounts. 
Mr B made payments to Lowell for a number of years but they stopped in 2019. More 
recently, Mr B complained that Lowell was unfairly asking him to make payments despite 
never borrowing money from the business. 
Lowell sent Mr B a final response on 21 February 2022 and said it had purchased debts in 
his name from the original lenders. Lowell also said Mr B had made payments towards the 
outstanding balances between 2016 and 2019 and didnt agree it had harassed him for 
payment. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Bs complaint but thought Lowell had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr B asked to appeal and said his private information had been illegally shared with 
Lowell by the original lender. Mr B also said he thinks Lowell acted fraudulently. As Mr B 
asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has made a number of points when bringing their complaint. Ive considered and read 
everything that all parties have said and sent to us. If I havent directly mentioned something 
thats happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I 
have. In line with this services role as a quick and informal body, Ill be focusing on the key 
issues of this complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable. An approach the rules allow 
me to take. Id like to assure all parties that no discourtesy is intended by this approach. 
Mr Bs credit card debts were sold by C and L to Lowell without his consent. I understand Mr 
Bs view is that he doesnt have a contract with Lowell and that its acted unfairly by 
purchasing the debts without his involvement or consent. But businesses can sell a debt and 
transfer accounts to new owners. The process is known as assignment. I appreciate Mr B 
doesnt agree his credit card debts were legally sold to Lowell. But I havent found anything 
that shows Lowells acted outside of the regulations it operates under or treated Mr B 
unfairly. 
In this case, Lowell says the accounts were assigned from the original lenders during 2016. 
Ive looked at the available information to see whether Lowell has acted reasonably by 
asking Mr B to make payments. In respect of the credit card with C, Lowell was able to 
obtain statements from the original lender. They show transactions going back some time 
before the account was sold to Lowell. In addition, Ive seen copies of the notices of 
assignment that were sent to Mr B by both C and Lowell. 
Lowell has also provided evidence that shows Mr B made payments towards the account for 
several years. In my view, Lowells provided sufficient evidence to show it did purchase Mr 
Bs credit card debt from C in February 2016. So Im satisfied it has a legitimate reason to 
contact Mr B and ask for payments. 
The credit cards with L were sold to Lowell at the end of 2016. Again, Ive seen the notices 
of assignment and they confirm the change in ownership. Both L and Lowell wrote to Mr B 
and advised ownership of his credit card debts had changed. And payments were made by 
Mr B for some time before they were stopped. Im satisfied the available information shows 
Lowell acquired Ls credit card debts in Mr Bs name as it claimed. And Im satisfied it has a 
legitimate reason to contact him for repayment. 
Mr B told our service hes been sent a blank credit agreement by C and he didnt think the 
credit agreement L gave him was correctly accepted. Ive reviewed both credit agreements. 
And both say the lenders may assign or transfer their rights under the agreement. So Im 
satisfied there was provision for existing debts to be transferred from the original lenders to 
Lowell. 
Mr B has raised concerns about the validity of the credit agreements, but thats a matter for 
the original lenders to deal with. I would also say that Mr Bs arguments about whether the 
original credit agreements have been correctly executed on a technical absis dont reflect the 
way we look at complaints. We will of course take into account the relevant laws and 
regulations when deciding how to resolve a complaint. But we consider complaints on a fair 
and reasonable basis. In this case, Im satisfied the supporting information shows Lowell did 
purchase accounts in Mr Bs name that have outstanding balances. I havent seen anything 
that leads me to conclude the funds in question werent borrowed by Mr B or that Lowell has 
acted unfairly by asking him to repay the outstanding balances. 
Mr B has also raised concerns about harassment from Lowell. But I havent seen an 
unreasonable level of contact that amounts to harassment. I appreciate Lowell has 
contacted Mr B about the accounts, but as Ive noted above, it has a legitimate reason to do 
so.
As Im satisfied Lowell has dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly Im not telling it to do anything 
else. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman