DRN-4137005
Complaint
Mr B says that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) irresponsibly provided him with an 
overdraft on his account, which it then closed and recorded a default on his credit file.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Bs concerns. He didnt think that RBS had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr B unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr B disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
RBS decision to provide Mr B with an overdraft 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint.
RBS needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is RBS 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr B could afford 
to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
RBS says it agreed to Mr Bs overdraft application and his limit increases after it obtained 
information on his income and expenditure and carried out a credit search. On the other 
hand, Mr B says it was obvious he couldnt afford the overdraft and so shouldnt have been 
lent to. Ive carefully thought about what Mr B and RBS have said. 
I have to start by saying that Mr Bs overdraft was a revolving credit facility. And I think that it 
would be useful for me to explain that this meant Mr B wasnt required to repay the entire 
amount of his overdraft in one go, but rather he had to be able to repay what he owed within 
a reasonable period of time. So RBS had to assess was whether Mr B could repay £250, 
plus any interest, within a reasonable period of time.
The information provided suggests that RBS did ask Mr B about his income and expenditure 
before providing the overdraft. And the information provided did suggest that what was being 
advanced was affordable. I appreciate that Mr B says that RBS should have gone further 
and has referred to what his credit file and bank statements for his other accounts may have 
shown. 
I know that Mr B wanted to provide copies of statements from at least one of his other 
accounts. But I dont think that this is necessary because Im prepared to accept that the 
position in relation to Mr Bs other accounts was as difficult as he says. 
However, even though this is the case the monthly amount required to repay the £250 
overdraft, on this account, within a reasonable period of time was incredibly low. And as this 
is the case, I dont think it would have been reasonable or proportionate for RBS to have 
carried out the sort of checks that would have extended into requesting bank statements for 
Mr Bs other accounts for such a small amount of lending. 
Furthermore, its also worth me explaining that Mr B was continually using his debit card 
when he didnt have sufficient funds to cover his transactions. I think a buffer of £250 was 
always going to work out better for him given he would have instead had had to pay more in 
unarranged overdraft fees, had he not had this. 
I think that allowing Mr B an overdraft with a low limit where the costs would be significantly 
lower than unarranged overdraft fees, provided Mr B with the opportunity to avoid much 
higher charges. And it seems to me that Mr Bs management of his account was always 
likely to result in him accruing a debt on his current account  whether on an arranged basis 
or an unarranged basis as a result of misusing his debit card  which would result in a 
default.   
So overall and having carefully considered the matter, I dont think that RBS treated Mr B 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing him with his overdraft. And Im not upholding this 
part of Mr Bs complaint. 
RBS decision to take corrective action in relation to Mr Bs overdraft
I now turn to the circumstances behind Mr Bs overdraft being defaulted. Its clear that Mr B 
not only got into difficulty repaying his overdraft but also broke more than one repayment 
plan which hed agreed with RBS. After Mr B failed to get in touch to formally action a 
repayment plan, which he proposed in November 2018, RBS took steps to default the 
account in January 2019. 
I do sympathise with what Mr B has told us. I fully appreciate why hes unhappy with adverse 
information being recorded on his credit file and worried about the impact this will have. But 
by January 2019, it was clear that Mr B wasnt able to repay what he owed and I dont think it 
would have been fair, reasonable or proportionate for RBS to continue ignoring Mr Bs 
obvious and apparent difficulty, or the fact that the overdraft had become demonstrably 
unsustainable for him, indefinitely. 
I know Mr B has asked for the default to be backdated. But I dont think that it would be fair 
and reasonable to do this as Mr B did get in contact with RBS to say that he could and would 
repay what he owed, right up until November 2018. And crucially RBS was required to give 
Mr B the opportunity to clear what he owed before it defaulted the account.
I appreciate that Mr B didnt end up sticking to the arrangements, but RBS wont have known 
this is what was going to happen when it was taking reasonable steps to allow Mr B time to repay what he owed. I dont think it would be fair to use the benefit of hindsight here. And I 
think that when Mr B failed to get in contact to formalise his November 2018 offer to repay, I 
would have expected RBS to have taken corrective action in the way that it did.
After all while withdrawing a facility and recording a default or other adverse information, 
might be viewed negatively by other lenders, it does offer the borrower certain protections in 
relation to the overdraft debt. And asking RBS to remove the default, or amend it in the way 
Mr B has asked, when Mr B didnt repay this debt in line with the initial arrangements, would 
arguably be counterproductive and not in Mr Bs interests or that of any future lender.
So Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for RBS to begin the process of taking corrective 
action in relation to Mr Bs overdraft when it did in January 2019. As this is the case and       
Mr B didnt or wasnt able to take steps to repay what was owed, or reach a suitable 
arrangement to repay what was owed within a reasonable period of time, Im satisfied that 
RBS was entitled to withdraw Mr Bs overdraft and record the adverse information it did. 
As this is the case, Im not upholding this part of Mr Bs complaint either.
Overall and having considered everything, I have not been persuaded to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr B. But I hope that hell 
understand the reasons for my decision and at least feel that his concerns have been 
listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman