DRN-4265846
The complaint
Mr R has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) rejected a claim for 
treatment for his pet cat after hed been told that the treatment would be covered.
References to Great Lakes include its agents and administrators.
What happened
On 2 August 2022 Mr R contacted Great Lakes, with whom his pet cat, who Ill refer to as 
M, was insured, to discuss cleaning and polishing treatment on Ms teeth that had been 
recommended by her vet. He was told that any claim recommended by a vet could be 
claimed for. Mr R went ahead with this treatment. When Mr R submitted his claim for the 
£744.28 cost of this to Great Lakes, it rejected it as his policy doesnt cover dental treatment 
unless arising from an accident.
Mr R complained to Great Lakes and asked it to refer to the recording of the call he made to 
it on 2 August 2022. Having done so, Great Lakes upheld Mr Rs complaint and accepted 
that hed been misadvised. However it said that as the decision to reject his complaint had 
been correct, it wasnt going to pay his claim. It instead offered him £100 compensation as 
an apology.
Mr R says that as Ms treatment wasnt essential although the vet advised it, he wouldnt 
have had it done had he known that the cost wouldnt be reimbursed by Great Lakes.
Mr R wasnt satisfied with Great Lakes rejection of his claim and brought his complaint to 
this service. Our investigator didnt think that Great Lakes had acted fairly and in her view it 
should reimburse Mr R for what hed paid Ms vet less any excess with simple interest at 8% 
from the date this was paid.
Great Lakes didnt agree with our investigators view but as a gesture of goodwill offered to 
pay Mr R 50% of the amount claimed less the £100 already paid to him, the policy excess, 
and a 20% co-payment as at the date of treatment M was over nine years old. This wasnt 
acceptable to Mr R, so his complaint has been referred to me as an ombudsman for a final 
decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding Mr Rs complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr R accepts that the policy wording excludes claims for dental treatment other than 
following an accident, although he says he hadnt checked his policy. But he specifically 
checked the proposed treatment with Great Lakes beforehand. 
Having listened to the call recording, Im satisfied that Mr R made it sufficiently clear to Great 
Lakes call handler what the procedure was that the vet had recommended for M. He was 
told that if the treatment was recommended by a vet, it would be covered. I consider that it 
was reasonable for Mr R to rely upon that confirmation, and that he wouldnt have made a 
claim had he been referred to the policy terms or had otherwise been advised that any such 
claim wouldnt be covered, as the treatment recommended wasnt essential. 
Great Lakes has accepted that Mr R was misadvised. Hes suffered a financial loss as a 
direct consequence of this. I consider it only fair for him to be put into the same financial 
position he wouldve been in had Great Lakes settled the claim subject to the other terms of 
his policy. 
My decision is that Great Lakes should settle Mr Rs claim subject to the other terms and 
conditions of his policy. That includes the deduction of any excess and any co-payment. It 
should also take account of any payment already made to him. If M was over the age of 9 at 
the renewal date of 17 September 2022, as the treatment claimed for took place on 21 
October 2022, a co-payment deduction is in accordance with the policy terms. Treatment 
should precede any claim for its cost. I also consider it appropriate that Mr R should receive 
8% simple interest on the sum payable from the date he paid Ms vet until payment is made 
to him by Great Lakes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mr Rs complaint. 
I require Great Lakes Insurance SE:
1. to settle Mr Rs claim subject to the other terms and conditions of his policy less any 
sum already paid to him;
2. to pay Mr R interest on any sum paid to him at the simple rate of 8% from the date he 
paid Ms vet until payment is made to him.
If Great Lakes Insurance SE considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should 
also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman