DRN-3980204
The complaint
Mr P complains about how American Express Services Europe Limited handled his request 
for a chargeback in relation to a taxi he had booked which did not arrive.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr B booked a taxi to take him to the airport, and paid £80:40 with his American 
Express credit card. It was late, and so he cancelled the booking, and booked a taxi with 
another firm. The original booking was not refunded, and so Mr B asked American Express 
to raise a chargeback. This was done, but it was unsuccessful.
Mr B complained about the outcome, but American Express denied that it had done anything 
wrong. It said there had not been enough evidence for a chargeback to succeed; Mr B 
denies that. But as a gesture of good will, American Express credited £50 to Mr Bs account.
Mr B was not satisfied with that. He brought this complaint to our service, and drew our 
attention to the shortcomings he had identified in the evidence on which the taxi firm and 
American Express had relied. He asked for a full refund, further compensation, and a written 
apology from a senior person at American Express.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought American Express had done 
what it could, and that a chargeback had been unlikely to succeed. Nevertheless, American 
Express changed its position and offered to pay Mr B a full refund of £80:40 (in addition to 
the £50 it had paid him already, and without accepting liability), to bring the matter to a close.
Mr B did not accept that offer. He wanted some acknowledgement that he had been entitled 
to a refund and that the chargeback should have succeeded. He asked for an ombudsman 
to review this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. That is because I think what American Express has done 
and has offered to do  a payment of £50 plus a full refund of £80:40  is sufficient 
compensation to fairly resolve this complaint.
I appreciate that for Mr B the matter has become a point of principle, and he wishes to be 
vindicated by a decision that the chargeback should have succeeded in the first place. But 
Im afraid I dont think that is necessary here. Our service was set up to resolve complaints 
quickly, as an alternative to the courts, and I think redress totalling £130:40 is in line with 
what I would have awarded if I had upheld this complaint. So I think American Expresss 
offer is enough, and that it would not be proportionate for me to investigate this matter any 
further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr P to decide whether to now 
accept American Expresss offer of a full refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman