DRN-3432889
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T have complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc Barclays changed their fee-
paying Additions account to a fee-free account that included a Tech Pack without their 
consent.
Mrs T says she went to use the legal helpline that was included as a benefit of the Additions 
account and discovered that this had been removed as a benefit a number of years ago. Mrs 
T says that she was never informed about the changes on the account and says that making 
such changes to the account is fraudulent.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint, and he didnt think that Barclays had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, and so the matter was referred 
for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to conclude that Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably in this matter. I will 
explain why.
In 2016 Barclays decided to withdraw the Additions account  which came into effect in 
January 2017. When it did this, it migrated all Additions accounts to a fee-free current 
account. At the same time, Barclays also added on a Tech Pack to the account but gave all 
affected account holders the choice to opt out of the Pack being added, if they no longer 
needed the cover it provided. I understand Barclays did this to ensure that similar insurance 
cover was provided for those who were relying on the cover provided by the Additions 
account.
Mr and Mrs T say that they never agreed to the changes that were made to the account or 
agreed to the Pack being added to their account. However, as the change to the account in 
January 2017 was a migration, rather than the sale of a new account, I think that it was not 
unreasonable for Barclays to do this on an opt out, rather than opt in basis. I say this as 
the Pack was essentially introduced to replace similar existing insurance benefits that 
account holders were already paying for under the Additions account.
Barclays was able to make such changes to the Additions account - but only if it gave 
sufficient notice to all affected account holders. This was to ensure account holders had 
sufficient information and time to understand what changes would be made to their account. 
And to ensure account holders understood what options were available to them. I have 
therefore considered whether Barclays gave sufficient notice of the migration that took place 
on Mr and Mrs Ts account.
Barclays wrote to Mrs T on 29 September 2016 to inform her that the Additions package was 
being removed and explained that the account will be changing in January 2017. Included 
with this letter was a summary of all the benefits that will be removed  which included the 
Legal and Tax Helpline feature. It also explained what benefits will continue (via the Tech 
Pack).
Barclays then wrote to Mrs T again, this time on 20 January 2017. This letter confirmed that 
Mr and Mrs Ts account had been changed to a fee-free account that included a fee-paying 
Tech Pack. The letter explained that Mrs T would be charged £9.50 per month for the Pack 
and provided a summary of the insurance cover that was included with the Tech Pack. The 
letter invited Mrs T to check whether the account and the Pack benefits were still right for 
her, and if not, to contact Barclays by phone or in branch.
Having looked at copies of the letters that Barclays has provided from its system records, I 
can see that they were correctly addressed. So overall, I think its more likely than not that 
they were sent to Mrs T  especially as Mrs T says she was still receiving bank statements 
from Barclays, which demonstrates that Barclays was sending correspondence to the correct 
address for her. And given the dates of the two letters, I think Barclays gave Mrs T a 
reasonable amount of time, so that she could decide what to do, before the changes to the 
account were due to take place.
I note that Mrs T says she didnt receive these letters, but I can also see further letters were 
also sent to Mrs T each year about the Tech Pack and the associated benefits that it came 
with. These letters were annual eligibility statements, and they served as a reminder of the 
insurance benefits that came with the Tech Pack and invited Mrs T to check that the benefits 
were still right for her. In the circumstances, I find it unlikely that Mrs T didnt receive any of 
these letters. And so I think its more likely than not that she received them  or at least the 
majority of them.
Therefore, Im satisfied that Barclays had done what it was required to do in terms of 
informing Mrs T about the changes that were taking place on her account and explaining 
what her options were. 
So, taking everything into account, I dont think it would be appropriate to ask Barclays to 
refund the fees Mr and Mrs T paid for the Tech Pack on the account, as I cant see that 
Barclays has done anything wrong when the Pack was added to Mr and Mrs Ts account. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Ive not seen Barclays Bank UK Plc do anything that 
was unfair or unreasonable when it migrated Mr and Mrs Ts Additions account to a fee-free 
account with a Tech Pack added. I therefore dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman