DRN-2760027
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complained that their claim for storm damage under their home insurance 
policy with QIC Europe Limited (QIC) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S said that a brick made boundary wall of their property was blown into their 
garden during a storm. The wall was thought to have been built at the same time as the 
house, around fifty years ago. They said the collapsed wall left their garden completely 
exposed, meaning that their young children and pet couldnt play in the garden.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their policy and explained their garden was next to the main 
road, so without a wall the exposed site was not ideal with small children. Mr and Mrs S were 
disappointed that QIC didnt offer help to make safe the garden for their young family and for 
passing pedestrians who couldve potentially been injured by the fallen wall.
QIC arranged for a surveyor to assess the damage. Based on its surveyors report, QIC 
declined the claim. The surveyors report stated on inspection of the wall I found it to be built 
in excess of its design limits for a half brick thick wall to withstand strong wind. The 
intermediate piers were staggered too far apart to reply structural integrity. The end pier was 
freestanding and was not supported by any other structure. There was a large creeper/vine 
plant fixed to the back edge of the wall increasing overall weight to the wall and the plant 
extending above the top edge of the wall creating further wind resistance. The creeper plant 
has the capacity to draw moisture from the mortar which could further weaken the structure.
QIC went onto say the storm was not the main cause of damage to the wall, so it declined 
the claim as it said the damage wasnt covered by the policy. It said the storm merely 
highlighted the long-term gradual deterioration of the wall and poor design / workmanship 
when the wall was built.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the conclusions, but also dissatisfied with QICs handling 
of the complaint. They said they were told by the surveyor he would be recommending the 
claim should be declined, however, they say they were never formally informed by QIC and 
had to chase them up before finally knowing the outcome of their claim.
Our investigator recommended the complaint is upheld. She thought the storm was the 
primary cause of the wall collapsing and thought QIC couldve handled the claim better so 
awarded £50 compensation. QIC disagreed for the reason set out above, so the case has 
been referred to an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
QIC confirmed that storm conditions occurred on the date of the damage. Winds were 
recorded at 62mph, which is above the threshold defined in the policy for storm conditions. 
So yes, I agree storm conditions occurred.
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
The damage Mr and Mrs S claimed for is a wall that was blown over, so logic suggests that 
high level storm force winds, such as those experienced on the day of the claim might have 
blown the wall over. Therefore, I think its reasonable to assume that the damage claimed for 
was consistent with damage a storm typically causes.  
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I need to see if the storm was the dominant cause of the wall collapsing or whether the storm 
simply highlighted an existing problem with the wall. QIC rejected the claim for two reasons: 
poor workmanship and gradual deterioration of the wall over many years. If either of these 
problems did exist, then QIC would be fair in declining the claim as they are exclusions 
within the policy. I will look at both.
QIC said the wall showed signs of poor workmanship due to the way it was designed. It said 
the wall was built beyond the design limits for a wall of that thickness. It said the intermediate 
piers were too widely spaced apart with the end pier not supported, so it made the wall more 
vulnerable to high winds. I appreciate what the surveyor has said, however, I dont think its a 
reasonable assumption to argue the design has been a major contributory factor to the wall 
collapsing. The wall was built around fifty years ago and will have faced many storms over 
this period. If the design was a major factor, then I think the wall would have fallen many 
years ago. So, I dont think QIC have been reasonable in applying this exclusion.
QIC also applied an exclusion for gradual deterioration. So, I have looked at what the 
surveyors report showed. The surveyor said There was a large creeper/vine plant are
fixed to the back edge of the wall increasing overall weight to the wall and the plant extended 
above the top edge of the wall creating further wind resistance. The creeper plant
has the capacity to draw moisture from the mortar which could further weaken the structure. 
Further comments in the surveyors report highlighted the [external] boundary wall was in 
fair condition and some evidence of mortar deterioration, whats noted however the wall in 
general, it to be in sound condition from the external side. 
I dont find the conclusion drawn by the surveyor to be compelling. He declined the claim for 
gradual deterioration, but his own comments show he said the wall was in fair condition 
and sound condition. He has mentioned potential damage to the wall by the creeper plant 
but has not evidenced any damage. I think his reported conclusions are not consistent with 
his own observations of the condition of the wall.QIC later said to our investigator you will see that externally the wall does superficially 
appear to be in a fair condition. However, I have attached an image of the wall, which shows 
its condition internally and you will notice that the mortar between the brickwork has 
deteriorated and this is due to the creeper plant that ran along the inside of the wall. Also, I 
have attached a further image that clearly shows that the section of collapsed wall has 
collapsed due to weakened mortar. In addition, it is highly likely that the wall would have 
withstood much stronger wind speeds than were experienced in this instance and we 
therefore feel this also highlights that a pre-existing issue is the proximate cause of the 
collapse rather than the windspeeds.
I have looked at the photographic evidence of the wall myself and I dont think QICs view is 
a fair representation of the circumstances. The surveyor said his findings were based on the 
external face of the wall as he couldnt examine the internal face that had fallen. The photos 
do show that the wall is aged, but thats not a surprise given its fifty years old. In my opinion, 
the wall doesnt appear to show any signs of excessive wear and tear. So, I dont think its 
reasonable to say gradual deterioration was a major contributory factor to the wall 
collapsing. If the wall was in bad condition so that collapse was likely, I wouldve expected 
the surveyor to have raised this in his report anyway following his physical inspection.
Therefore, having considered the evidence, I dont think poor workmanship or gradual 
deterioration has been the main factor in the wall collapsing. So, that leads me to think the 
storm winds were the main factor. QIC stated the fact that previous storms hadnt blown the 
wall over, so thats why they think a pre-existing issue caused the wall to fall this time. I dont 
think thats a reasonable assumption, as it hasnt been able to provide persuasive evidence 
of this. I think the damage is consistent with what you may expect in storm conditions, so I 
think its fair to conclude that its more likely that the storm force winds were the main factor 
in the wall collapsing.
As I think the answers to the three questions I set out at the start are yes, I uphold this 
aspect of the complaint. I require QIC to settle the claim in line with the remaining terms of 
the policy, which includes the cost of erecting the temporary fence and the cost of building 
the new brick wall. 
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with the way their claim was handled, particularly in the way 
that QIC didnt offer help in providing temporary safety measures when the claim was first 
raised. Mr and Mrs S had to manage this themselves and this would have been an 
inconvenience to them, so I am awarding £50 in compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Limited to:
Settle Mr and Mrs S claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy (the 
settlement of the temporary fence should be based on the production of valid 
receipts).
Pay Mr and Mrs S £50 compensation  for their inconvenience.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman