DRN-2885957
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Resolvecall tried to collect debts that were included in her bankruptcy. 
  
What happened
Mrs M was declared backrupt in 2018 and discharged in 2019. 
In February and March 2020 Resolvecall was instructed by a third party business to try and 
collect two debts in Mrs Ms name. Resolvecall wrote to Mrs M, sent her text messages and 
took the step of sending field agents to visit her property.
Mrs Ms representative says that each time Resolvecall got in touch they sent it an email to 
confirm the debts formed part of her discharged bankruptcy. 
In March 2020 Resolvecall sent a field agent to visit Mrs M. Mrs Ms husband told the field 
agent the debts Resolvecall was trying to collect formed part of a discharged bankruptcy. A 
few days later, an email was sent to Resolvecall asking it to stop collections activity as the 
debt formed part of Mrs Ms bankruptcy. 
Mrs M referred her concerns to this service and we contacted Resolvecall. It didnt uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint. An investigator at this service upheld Mrs Ms complaint and said 
Resolvecall couldve contacted the third party business that instructed it to check on the 
status of her debts in March 2020 and asked it to pay her £100. Resolvecall asked to appeal, 
so Mrs Ms complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background above as all parties broadly agree 
about the key dates and events of Mrs Ms complaint. From the information Ive seen, I can 
see Mrs M is upset that despite being discharged from her bankruptcy shes still being 
chased for debts that were included. And Resolvecall says Mrs M hasnt sent evidence to 
verify her claim shes been discharged from the bankruptcy or that the debts its trying to 
collect were included. 
Whilst I can see Mrs M didnt send information to verify her identity and didnt discuss her 
accounts with the field agent, I agree with the investigator that Resolvecall hasnt treated her 
fairly. Resolvecalls responses have explained Mrs M failed to provide evidence of her 
identity or that she was discharged from her bankruptcy. But Resolvecall couldve taken the 
step of contacting the third party debt owner to check the basis of its instructions. I can see 
no reason why that step wasnt taken and can understand why Mrs M has become frustrated 
that shes been pursued by Resolvecall despite explaining the situation. 
I also think its reasonable to consider the situation from Mrs Ms perspective. She doesnt 
have a relationship with Resolvecall beyond collections activity it carried out on behalf of a 
third party before her bankruptcy. And shes explained the debts in question were included in 
her bankruptcy arrangements so I can understand why she didnt want to engage further 
with any attempts to collect them. 
I agree with the investigator that Resolvecall shouldve done more when it was told the debts 
in question formed part of her bankruptcy. As Ive said above, I can see no reason why 
Resolvecall didnt contact its client for clarification and none has been provided. I agree the 
nature of the contact and length of time the situation has gone on for has caused an 
unreasonable amount of trouble and upset for Mrs M. As a result, Im going to uphold 
Mrs Ms complaint and direct Resolvecall to pay her £100. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Resolvecall to pay Mrs M £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman