DRN-4311847
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society passed his personal loan account to a 
third-party debt recovery agency without telling him. Hes also unhappy his account was 
defaulted. 
What happened
Mr N took out a personal loan with Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) in 2017. 
In October 2022, Mr N complained to Nationwide as theyd told him on the phone that his 
loan had been passed over to a third-party debt recovery agency. Mr N said he wanted the 
account to be returned to Nationwide and didnt want to deal with the other party.
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd followed the correct process in 
passing the debt to the third party and mentioned that Mr Ns account had been defaulted in 
2018.
Mr N referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. She said Nationwide was 
entitled to pass the account on to a third party after it had defaulted. 
Mr N didnt agree. He said our investigator had ignored that Nationwide didnt tell him they 
were planning to pass the account to the third party and pointed out that hed repaid a 
significant amount of the loan. Mr N also said Nationwide had unfairly defaulted the account 
when hed paid less than what was required for one month only, and that Nationwide hadnt 
considered his financial situation fairly. 
As the matter couldnt be resolved, Mr Ns complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator focused solely on whether Nationwide was entitled to pass the recovery of 
the debt on to the third party. I can see that this is what prompted Mr N to complain to 
Nationwide although I note he feels there are other factors to consider which I set out in the 
preceding section of this decision.
I see no reason in theory why Nationwide wasnt entitled to do this in 2022. The loan was 
taken out in 2017 for 24 months and a balance remained some three years after the loan 
was meant to be repaid. Ive looked at Nationwides account history notes and can see that 
they passed the account on to the third party on more than one occasion after it was 
defaulted in 2018. The notes also show that Nationwide brought the account back in to them 
upon Mr Ns request on occasion. So, it seems to me that Nationwide did try to work with   
Mr N to help him repay what was owed but chose to pass the account to the third party in 
view of the payment history. That doesnt seem unreasonable to me. 
I realise that Mr N prefers that Nationwide deals with the account. Ive not seen though that 
the third party is doing anything differently to what Nationwide was doing, like for example 
increasing the debt when Nationwide hadnt been doing so. So, theres no practical 
difference in the third party managing the account from what I can see. And lenders are 
entitled to pass accounts on to debt recovery agents when they have defaulted. 
I note that our investigator didnt comment on how the default was applied and whether this 
was fair. Nationwide has said they would like this looked at separately. Mr N has said he 
asked Nationwide to investigate this and was told by them the matter is with us. I dont know 
whether theres been a miscommunication here, but it doesnt look to me as if Mr N 
complained about this specific point when he complained to Nationwide initially. So, if 
Nationwide hasnt investigated this point yet, it should now do so and provide Mr N with a 
response within the permitted timescales. Mr N may wish to then refer that particular 
complaint to us thereafter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman