DRN-3946732
Complaint
Mr L has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) provided 
him with an unaffordable loan. 
Background
Tesco Bank provided Mr L with a loan for £15,000.00 in August 2018. The loan had an APR 
of 8.4% and the total amount to repay of £15,535.80, which included interest of £3,535.80 
was due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just under £310. One of our adjudicators 
looked at this complaint and she thought that Tesco Bank shouldnt have provided Mr L with 
his loan as reasonable and proportionate checks would have shown it that the loan was 
unaffordable for Mr L. Tesco Bank disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Tesco Bank needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
that Tesco Bank needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr L could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for 
example, a borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the 
lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the 
borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it 
didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
As I understand it, Tesco Bank enquiries suggested that Mr L was employed and earning 
around £2,500.00 a month. Tesco Bank also says that Mr L was a homeowner with 
mortgage payments of £280. Tesco Bank carried out a credit check which showed that Mr L 
had just over £18,600.00 in unsecured debt of which just over £4,000.00 of this was on 
revolving credit accounts. In its view all of this information indicated that Mr L would be able 
to afford the monthly payments to his loan. However, Ive noted that Tesco Bank obtained 
bank statements from Mr L and that these not only showed that he was regularly overdrawn 
(albeit that he returned to credit when he got paid) but that Mr L was making a significant 
amount of gambling transactions.
 
I note that Tesco Bank says Mr Ls gambling wasnt enough to decline this application as       
Mr L didnt say that he had a problem and hes unlikely to have volunteered this information 
if he was asked.  But I dont think that this was a reasonable given Mr L was gambling quite 
significant sums. And I think that Tesco Bank needed to better understand Mr Ls financial 
position  especially bearing in mind the amount being advanced - before providing this loan 
to him. I think that if Tesco Bank had done this, it would more likely than not have discovered 
that Mr L was gambling significant sums of money and that this is what was responsible for 
his increasing indebtedness. 
In these circumstances, I think that Tesco Bank ought to have realised that Mr L was simply 
unlikely to be able make the payments to this loan without experiencing adverse 
consequences or borrowing further. And as this is the case, I find that Tesco Banks failure 
to properly look into Mr Ls circumstances meant that it didnt act fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr L when it provided this loan to him. As Mr L paid interest, fees and charges on a 
loan Tesco Bank should never have provided to him, Im satisfied that Mr L lost out because 
of what Tesco Bank did wrong. So I think that Tesco Bank needs to put things right.   
Fair compensation  what Tesco Bank needs to do to put things right for Mr L
Overall and having considered everything, I think it is fair and reasonable for Tesco Bank to 
put things right for Mr L in the following way:
refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr L paid on this loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest, fees and charges paid from the 
date they were paid by Mr L to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ls credit file as a result of this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to take off tax from this interest. Tesco 
Bank must give Mr L a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman