DRN-4309749
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax acted irresponsibly when it 
provided him with an overdraft facility on his student account in 2020. 
What happened
Mr M applied for a student account with Halifax in November 2020 and at the time the 
account was opened he was given a £1,500 overdraft facility. Mr M has told us that at this 
time he wasnt enrolled in a university course and was in receipt of universal credit only as 
he was unemployed. 
He has explained that since being given the overdraft he has used it to its limit and has been 
unable to get his account back into credit. He believes Halifax was wrong to provide him with 
the facility as he was unemployed at the time and unable to afford it. He has also explained 
that he is a vulnerable consumer and mental health issues which have been seriously 
impacted by his current financial difficulties. 
He has asked that Halifax remove the facility, write off the outstanding debt and remove any 
associated defaults or negative markers from his credit file. 
Halifax has said that at the time of application Mr M told the bank he was in full time 
education. It accepts that he had a limited income but says this was to be expected as he 
was applying for a student account and so the bank reviews these sorts of applications 
differently and applies different risk considerations. It has said that when he applied for his 
account he already had a current account with Halifax which had been well maintained. 
It accepts that Mr M utilised the facility immediately and has been unable to bring the 
account back into credit since November 2020. It has said that it shouldve removed the 
facility in November 2021 when it reviewed how Mr M was using the account. It has 
apologised for this and has arranged for the facility to be removed. However, it has 
explained that because it was a student account no fees or interest has been charged on it 
and so Mr M is only obliged to repay the amount he spent. It offered Mr M £40 compensation 
for the failure to remove the facility sooner. 
Mr M disagreed with Halifaxs response to his complaint and still believed the outstanding 
balance should be written off given his existing vulnerabilities. So, he brought his complaint 
to our service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint already. He agreed that 
Halifaxs proposed resolution of removing the facility, backdating its removal to November 
2021 and paying Mr M £40 compensation was reasonable. He noted that no interest or 
charges had been added to the amount owed and so Mr M was only being asked to repay 
the capital amount he had borrowed. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint 
and so its been passed to me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the resolution proposed by Halifax is reasonable and Im not going to 
ask it to write off the balance owed by Mr M. I know this will be very upsetting for him, so Id 
like to explain why Ive reached the outcome I have. 
Mr M has said that he shouldnt have been given a student account in 2020 as he wasnt in 
university at the time. However, student accounts are available to anyone in full time 
education, it doesnt have to be a university course. And Mr M has confirmed that he was 
going into his second year of a three-year course and so I think he was eligible for the 
account despite the fact that he wasnt enrolled in university.
Mr M has also said that at the time he applied for the overdraft he wasnt working. However, 
his application indicates that at the time he was in receipt of some wages, albeit lower 
amounts that likely indicate part-time employment. And as this was a student account there 
wasnt an expectation that he would be working as it would be presumed that he was 
studying full time, as declared on his application. 
I do agree that in November 2021 when Halifax reviewed the account it shouldve realised 
that Mr M was overly reliant on the overdraft facility. He used it immediately and never got 
the account back into credit. So, it shouldve been removed then and Mr M shouldve been 
put into a repayment plan to allow him to repay the outstanding amount over a reasonable 
length of time without incurring any interest or charges. 
Halifax has accepted it made a mistake at this point. And has already removed the facility 
and agreed that Mr M needs to have a repayment plan put in place. It has also confirmed 
that no interest or charges have been added to the amount owed and Mr M is only being 
asked to repay the amount he borrowed. 
I think thats reasonable and its what I wouldve asked the business to do had it not already 
suggested this resolution. I know Mr M is extremely vulnerable and I would expect Halifax to 
take this into consideration when working with him to come up with a fair and reasonable 
repayment plan. 
However, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to say that Mr M doesnt need to repay the money 
he spent. And so, I cant ask it to do this and Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint on this 
basis. 
Halifax has confirmed the debt has been passed to a specialist team to manage and I would 
urge Mr M to contact that team if he hasnt already done so. If the debt remains unpaid it 
could result in a default being added to his credit file and so its important he engages with 
the bank even if it is difficult to do so. It may be useful for him to get support from a trusted 
third party, like family member or friend, to help him with this. Mr M should speak to Halifax 
to find out what his options are. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Karen Hanlon
Ombudsman