DRN-3343912
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains about the actions of Masthaven Bank Limited 
regarding its loan accounts. T says the bank irreversibly disrupted the companys planned 
building schedule for a property development.
What happened
Masthaven offered T two 18-month interest-only loan facilities to finance a property 
project. The first was for £1,113,049 for Phase 1 of the project and the second was for 
£1,875,352 for Phase 2. Both were secured on the property and land.
Masthaven appointed a monitoring surveyor to inspect the progress of the development, 
so that the funds would be released at each completed milestone. Work on site began in 
2017. Early in 2018, T sought to drawn down funds for Phase 2, but the bank was 
unhappy with progress on Phase 1. After discussions, Masthaven agreed to release 
further funds to commence Phase 2 and complete road access to the plots in Phase 1, 
which would enable sales of those plots. 
The Phase 2 work began in April 2018 but there continued to be disagreements about 
progress of the project and the drawdown of further funds. The bank provided a number of 
further advances in 2018 and 2019.
In April 2020, T complained to Masthaven about the delays and the associated costs, saying 
the profit on the project would be lower than predicted or perhaps even nothing. T said the 
project cash flow had been impossible to get back on track after the banks insistence on 
selling properties from Phase 1 and the use of loan to value (LTV) in measuring progress, 
when gross development value (GDV) was the basis of the lending. T also said the bank 
was applying bridging loan principles to a development loan scenario.
Masthaven said that it had funded the project throughout to 50% of the land value and 100% 
of the build costs, as agreed in its offer letter. Having done that, the bank said the difference 
between LTV and GDV was irrelevant. It said that despite Phase 1 being far from complete 
and behind schedule, and the funding being at its agreed maximum, the bank did ultimately 
provide advance finance for the road and utilities for Phase 2, and thereafter it had been 
flexible beyond its commitments in order to move the project forward.
Unhappy with the banks response, T referred its complaint to his service in June 2020.
Shortly after the complaint came to us, also in June 2020, Ts director (who Ill call Mr W) 
informed the bank that he had been made bankrupt. As a result, Masthaven then appointed 
a receiver in July 2020 to deal with Ts development. 
Our investigator didnt think the banks actions caused the project to fail. He gave these 
reasons, in summary:
Mr Ws bankruptcy appears to have been the result of Mr W giving guarantees to 
suppliers for goods supplied as long ago as 2015 but not paid for. Those goods were 
not for Ts development funded by Masthaven. T had no other director and, as a 
bankrupt person, Mr W no longer had any authority to act for the company. The 
bankruptcy and Ts failure to notify the bank at an earlier stage of the bankruptcy 
proceedings were both breaches of the terms of the loan agreement. Following these 
events, the investigator didnt think the bank acted unreasonably when it decided to 
appoint a receiver to deal with the development.
The investigator understood the Masthaven facilities were meant to be short-term 
lending, and when plots were completed the funds generated from the sales would 
be put back into the development. The first paragraph of the loan agreements 
clearly states that The purpose of this loan is to provide the Borrower with short 
term bridging finance.
The agreements stated that the lending was agreed at 50% of land value and 
100% of build costs, and that the gross loan shall not exceed 60% of GDV. Both 
sides referred to LTV in correspondence during the project, but in any event the 
investigator didnt think Ts cash flow problems were caused by the banks and the 
monitoring surveyors use of LTV, rather than GDV, in reports. The investigator 
believed that whichever measure was used in the monitoring surveyors report, the 
bank would still have required T to sell some of the Phase 1 plots. 
The investigator thought T had cash flow difficulties from the start of the project. He 
agreed with Masthaven that it was right and proper for the bank to keep a close 
and prudent oversight on requests for funding above the 50% land and 100% 
building cost commitment. So requesting T to sell some of the plots in Phase 1 
wasnt unreasonable.
As an experienced developer, T should have foreseen that it would be difficult to sell 
some of the plots in Phase 1 without the road access, with consequences for the 
projects cash flow. The investigator would have expected T to make the right 
decisions in anticipation of this. He noted that the monitoring surveyor had thought 
the project had been under-budgeted by the developer and that T was under the 
impression that the works would be forward funded, which wasnt the case. The 
investigator could see how this would affect Ts cash flow, as each drawdown was 
based on work being completed at each re-inspection in order for funds to be 
released, so the company was always playing catch-up.
T had been liable to pay a £140,000 Community Infrastructure Levy (CIL) for the 
development. The county council didnt make its formal demand until 2019. Some 
of the funds Masthaven advanced to T were intended to cover the CIL, but T didnt 
make the payment and the liability was still outstanding at time of the complaint. 
T was an experienced developer and would have been aware at the start of the 
project that the CIL would need to be paid. In the investigators view, T should have 
accounted for this in its budget.
It was unfortunate that the relationship between T and Masthaven broke down, but 
the investigator thought the main failure resulted from the way the project budget was 
managed. This was supported by there being outstanding debt to suppliers before 
the project began and T not being able to pay the CIL when it fell due.
T didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Mr W made the following points, in 
summary:The product was development finance, not a bridging loan. Development finance is 
designed to allow the entire project to be built before any sales are made. T shouldnt 
have experienced any cash flow issues given the bank was funding 100% of the build 
costs. The only reason for having two loans called Phase 1 and Phase 2 was to save 
T six months interest, as not all plots would be started at the same time.
T only asked for funding in advance when the project began to run off schedule as a 
result of the banks use of LTV in its calculations rather than GDV. At no point did the 
project exceed 60% GDV and the faster funds were pumped into the site the faster it 
would have been completed.
Payment of the CIL was deferred on the basis that local authorities are poor at 
chasing it and the penalty for late payment is minuscule in relation to the profit 
margin on a new-build site. 
The bank treated Ts development finance like a bridging loan based on LTV, sealing 
its fate and causing delays that led to Mr Ws unrelated personal debts becoming due 
and subsequently a bankruptcy petition. The project should have earned about £1m 
profit, far and above the value of his personal debts. The creditors had agreements 
with Mr W that the debts would be settled from the profits of Ts development, and 
they were expecting payment before the end of 2019. Their decision to trigger a 
bankruptcy petition was in pure frustration with Masthavens actions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is from T, a company. Both sides have mentioned Mr Ws personal 
bankruptcy in their respective accounts of the events. While I agree that the bankruptcy is an 
important element in the circumstances of Ts complaint, I should make it clear that my role 
here is solely to determine whether Masthaven should compensate T for the companys 
losses. I make no findings about any personal losses suffered by Mr W.
Masthaven points out that the lending specified in the facility was 50% of land value and 
100% of build costs. The bank says it met that level of funding in the drawdowns and T 
hasnt suggested otherwise, so I dont think the banks lending decisions were unreasonable. 
Mr W argues that the agreement meant the drawdown should have been routinely based on 
60% GDV, and the bank failed to honour that. But the bank says the 60% GDV was an 
overriding condition, not a commitment to lend to that figure. In other words, it wasnt 
specified as the loan amount  rather, it was a maximum which the gross loan should not 
exceed, even if the loan amount defined by 50% land value and 100% build costs would 
have gone higher. For this reason, I dont think the bank did anything wrong in not increasing 
the drawdowns to reflect GDV.
T has objected to the monitoring surveyors use of LTV in its valuation figures, following the 
banks reporting format. The bank disagrees, saying that LTV is a very useful indicator of 
progress but it wasnt the lending criterion. While I can see that the LTV figures were the 
cause of argument between the parties, Im satisfied the commitment in the facility was 
based on neither GDV nor LTV, but on 50% of land value and 100% of build costs. Its not 
disputed that Masthaven lent to that level, so I dont think that the surveyors use of LTV 
figures caused the banks lending to fall short of the agreement.I can see there was no contractual requirement in the facility letter to sell Phase 1 properties 
before commencement of Phase 2. But the bank said the work on Phase 1 was behind 
schedule and funding was at its agreed maximum, so I dont think it was unreasonable of the 
bank to require T to raise funds through sales before moving ahead with the next phase of 
loan funding. The difficulty was that part of the Phase 2 funding was needed to secure road 
access to the Phase 1 properties. After discussions, the bank did release funds to remove 
this obstacle. I agree with the investigator that the banks request for the property sales was 
a matter of close and prudent oversight of the project funding. I also think the compromise 
over the access road funding was reasonable.
As the investigator pointed out, the monitoring surveyor has said that, in their opinion, the 
project was under-budgeted by T from the outset, leading to cash flow difficulties and an 
inability to catch up when it came to the inspections that were key to the release of further 
funds. From the surveyors comments, the bank said it appeared that site management was 
somewhat haphazard, with works mainly directed at trying to keep contractors on site rather 
than following the planned schedule. 
It may be true that T deferring the CIL payment would ultimately have attracted a relatively 
small penalty. But the payment was part of cash flow forecast for 2017-18 and T then used 
the funds elsewhere on the project, so I think it was reasonable of the bank to regard this as 
further evidence of problems in the management of the development.
From the evidence Ive seen, I believe the bank had genuine and well-founded concerns 
about the progress and management of the project, so I dont think its cautious approach to 
the further release of funds was unreasonable.
For the reasons given above, Im not persuaded that Masthavens actions unfairly caused 
delays in the building schedule.
Ts project came to an end when Mr W was made bankrupt. Masthaven said that Mr W 
couldnt legally continue as sole director of T and that the conditions of the lending had been 
breached. In my view, the bank was correct about both of those points. In the circumstances, 
I dont find that the bank acted unreasonably when it brought in the receiver. 
Ive said above that Im not persuaded that Masthaven unfairly caused delays on the project. 
But in any event, the failure of the project was caused by the bankruptcy, rather than by the 
problems between the parties while the project was running. So even if I were wrong about 
the cause of the delays, I couldnt reasonably require the bank to compensate T for its 
losses. T originally brought its complaint seeking redress for the shortfall in profits it 
expected on completion of the development, and at the time of the complaint the parties 
were still in discussion about the way forward for the work and property sales. No one knows 
what the outcome would have been if the project had continued. But because of the 
bankruptcy, the development didnt run to completion and the assets were sold by the 
receiver. Ts actual losses were caused by the premature ending of the project, rather than 
the delays. 
Mr W says Ts project failed because the delays led to his own bankruptcy. But even if the 
delays were unfairly caused by the bank (and, to be clear, Im not persuaded that they were), 
I dont think the bank could be held responsible for the failure of the project resulting from 
Mr Ws bankruptcy. Masthaven couldnt reasonably have foreseen that Mr Ws personal 
creditors were relying on the profits of Ts project for repayment of Mr Ws previous debts 
and could act against him. Theres no evidence that the bank had any knowledge of Mr Ws 
personal debts or the arrangements he had with his creditors. The loan agreements between T and Masthaven said nothing about Mr Ws existing 
creditors expecting payment from the profits of the development or about the possible action 
they could take if they werent paid on time. Mr W says he kept his creditors informed about 
the difficulties between T and the bank, and the creditors became frustrated. But Masthaven 
wasnt told about this risk to the development project  even while the bank was dealing with 
Ts complaint. Mr W has acknowledged that he didnt tell the bank about the bankruptcy 
petition, and Masthaven said the news of Mr Ws bankruptcy order came as a complete 
surprise in June 2020. In the circumstances, it would be wrong to hold the bank responsible 
for the failure of Ts project resulting from the creditors pursuit of Mr Ws previous debts.
For all the above reasons, I dont require Masthaven Bank Limited to pay any compensation 
to T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman