DRN-2037153
The complaint
Mrs W has complained Barclays Bank PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund 
transactions she didnt make on her two credit cards.
What happened
Mrs W went on holiday with a friend in September 2019. She was using her debit card as 
normal and taking cash out of cash machines.
Shes told us she got a call from someone saying they worked for her bank, who Ill call B. 
She had to provide some ID information (her date of birth and mothers maiden name) and 
was told to just use one specific cash machine for the rest of the holiday because of the risk 
of her card being cloned.
Shed then had some problems using her cards. Mrs W had also lost her mobile phone but it 
was returned within a day to a bar she knew. She initially told B she kept nothing with her 
phone.
When Mrs W got home, she went to her branch with B. They confirmed the cards she had 
werent in her name. Mrs W believed shed got these cards when shed used cash machines. 
Mrs W said none of the transactions on her bank account or either of her credit card 
accounts had been made by her.  
Barclaycard rejected Mrs Ws fraud claim. Theyd seen another case with a similar claim. In 
that case and Mrs Ws the same phone number had been used to make calls to Barclaycard 
confirming transactions were genuine and changing security details. These had happened 
on 5 and 6 September 2019. They felt this was suspicious and overall that Mrs W had known 
her account was being misused and authorised this. They wouldnt refund the money she 
had lost on these disputed credit card transactions.
Mrs W brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. Our investigator felt the parallels 
between Mrs Ws case and the other claim B had received from a person Mrs W didnt 
appear to know was concerning. He also noted the evidence that Mrs W continued to use 
her own phone to log into her Barclaycard app throughout her holiday. She hadnt noticed 
the many transactions taking place which she now said shed not authorised. He wouldnt be 
asking Barclaycard to refund Mrs W.  
At the same time he noted there was a fraud-related marker against Mrs W which had been 
lodged by Barclaycard. He wasnt going to ask them to remove this as it seemed 
Barclaycard had met the required standard for asking for a marker to be lodged.
Mrs W now found herself in a position where she was substantially in debt. Shes asked an 
ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached roughly the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply but nothing thats had an impact on the decision Im making here. 
So when we look at whether a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, 
one of the things we consider is whether the customer made the transactions themselves or 
allowed them to be made. If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund 
them.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were made 
were covered in our investigators view of 4 July 2020. I dont intend to repeat everything that 
was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects which form the basis of my decision. 
To help me reach a decision, Ive considered detailed evidence provided to us by 
Barclaycard which includes records of Mrs Ws online and mobile banking use throughout 
this period. Barclaycard has also told us of a similar fraud on another account with B which 
bears startling similarities to Mrs Ws case. Im also aware that CIFAS, who manage the 
industry fraud database, alerted its members to a specific fraud-type happening in one 
specific overseas country. This alert also matches the circumstances of what happened 
here.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. Again our rules allow me to do this.
Ive considered the following issues:
Different devices were linked to Mrs Ws account over the period the fraud took 
places but all were using a similar overseas IP address.
Mrs W only lost her phone for a day and whilst her phone screen had no lock on it 
during this period, access to her mobile banking was through an app and was 
password protected.
Mrs W has not suggested that her security details may have been compromised, nor 
is there anything to show she notified her bank of any concerns until her visit into 
branch after her return.
Shes also confirmed shed not shared her credit cards or PIN with anybody.
Mrs W has said she didnt have cards which worked and managed in her time abroad 
by borrowing from friends. I find this unusual and wonder why Mrs W wouldnt 
contact Barclaycard immediately if this happened so at least shed have replacement 
cards ready on her return..
Over the period Mrs W was abroad, shes told us she still had her mobile phone for 
most of the time. There were large transactions being made on her two credit cards 
during this period. I find it surprising Mrs W didnt notice any of this unusual account 
activity even though she was logging into her mobile app.
Two phone calls were also made to Barclaycard about Mrs Ws accounts. From the 
evidence, I dont think either was made by Mrs W. The calls certainly didnt come 
from her number. These calls also came from the same telephone number as calls 
on another fraud case with B for somebody who Mrs W says is not linked to her. I note Barclaycards scepticism on this aspect as Mrs W has been unclear about her 
relationship with this other person.
Ive considered Mrs Ws point that this all took place without her knowledge but I find this 
hard to believe. Its unclear to me how all her security details for both her online and mobile 
banking could have been compromised as well as her two credit cards being taken and used 
with the PIN, without her having shared that information.
Mrs W story that her cards could have been swallowed by cash machines doesnt hang 
together Im afraid. Particularly as theres no evidence she used her credit card at cash 
machines whilst she was abroad.
And thats apart from the evidence showing Mrs W was checking the status of her account 
and never once complained to Barclaycard about the potential misuse. 
A possible scenario is that Mrs W was persuaded by friends or acquaintances to allow her 
cards and PINs to be used in exchange for a free holiday or some other recompense. She 
may not even have known exactly what that use would entail. However this would mean that 
Mrs W had allowed someone else to use her credit cards to spend money. By doing this she 
was authorising the use.
This provides enough evidence for Barclaycard to lodge a fraud-related marker on Mrs Ws 
record. Having considered what Barclaycard knew, I think they met the required tests to 
lodge this marker so I wont be asking them to remove it.
I note that the overall debt that Mrs W will be expected to repay is an extremely large 
amount of money and so really appreciate her distress.
However overall I believe Mrs W made or authorised the disputed Barclaycard transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint against 
Barclays Bank PLC, trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman