DRN-3343839
The complaint
Ms B is feels that Barclays Bank UK PLC provided her with a loan product irresponsibly and 
with several aspects of the service that she subsequently received from Barclays in regard to 
that loan.
What happened
Ms B took out a Career Development Loan with Barclays in September 2014 to help fund 
her ongoing studies. The loan repayments were scheduled to begin in July 2015, following 
the completion of Ms Bs educational course, but Barclays agreed to a postponement such 
that Ms B began making repayments to the loan in November 2015.
Shortly after shed made the first repayment, Ms B contacted Barclays and asked for the 
monthly payment amount to be reduced. In order to meet Ms Bs request, it was agreed 
between Ms B and Barclays that the loan would be restructured over a longer term. The 
maximum term available for that type of loan product was 60 months, and because Ms B 
had already made one payment, the loan restructure was agreed over 59 further months.
In February 2018, Ms B found herself struggling to meet the monthly repayments that were 
due on the loan, and she missed the payment for that month. Ms B contacted Barclays who 
agreed to place a 30-day hold on the account to allow Ms B time to recover her financial 
position. When the 30-day hold expired, Barclays hadnt heard back from Ms B, so they 
placed another 30-day hold on the account. When that second 30-day hold expired, Ms B 
still hadnt gotten back in touch with Barclays, so Barclays resumed normal arrears 
collections activities on the account.
In August 2018, Ms B contacted Barclays as she wanted to resume making payments on her 
account. However, because Ms Bs account was at that time several months in arrears, with 
no payment having been received on the account since January that year, Ms B was 
informed that her account would need to be defaulted for non-payment and a new loan set 
up to allow her to make the necessary repayments.
In June 2019, Ms B contacted Barclays again as she was uncertain as to the status of her 
account. After investigating, Barclays acknowledged that they hadnt moved forwards with 
the account as they should have done when they spoke with Ms B in August 2018, and that 
the loan account was still showing as active and in arrears. Barclays agreed to not default 
the account, as theyd originally said that they would, and they arranged an affordable 
repayment plan with Ms B to clear the balance outstanding. Barclays also made a payment 
of £500 to compensate Ms B for the inconvenience shed had incurred.
In September 2019, Barclays contacted Ms B and explained that the agreed affordable 
repayment plan wasnt tenable on the account as it meant the repayment term would exceed 
the maximum permitted repayment term of 60 months. Ms B wasnt happy about being 
asked to repay more on the monthly loan repayments than she could reasonably afford, and 
it was later agreed by Barclays to credit Ms Bs loan account with £815, allowing Ms B to 
continue making repayments at the agreed rate but for a shorter term compliant with the 
requirements of the loan product. Barclays also paid a further £200 compensation to Ms B 
for the trouble the matter had caused.  
Ms B remained unhappy with Barclays and felt they hadnt addressed all the concerns that 
shed raised with them, including the missed payments recorded on her credit file which 
shed been told by Barclays would be removed. Barclays responded to Ms B and explained 
that they felt the information theyd reported to the credit agencies was correct, although they 
did offer Ms B a further £50 compensation because of how long it had taken them to get 
back to her.
Ms B wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, and she remained unhappy with how Barclays 
had managed her loan account in general as well as that her financial situation had been 
such that the loan should never have been provided to her. So, she referred her complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that Barclays had made 
several errors during the period in question, but they felt that the corrective actions that 
Barclays had undertaken in recognition of those errors, and the compensation that Barclays 
had paid to Ms B, already represented a fair and reasonable response to what had taken 
place. So, they didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Ms B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B feels that her financial position at the time that she applied for the loan was such that 
Barclays should have recognised that the loan would in all likelihood be unaffordable for her 
and that Barclays therefore shouldnt have approved Ms Bs application for the loan.
But the nature of this loan was that it was designed to support further educational studies 
such as Ms B was taking at that time, and this meant that loan repayments were only 
scheduled to commence following the completion of those studies which was significantly 
after Ms B applied for the loan.
As such, it wouldnt be expected that Barclays would have assessed the affordability of Ms B 
to repay the loan at that time that she applied for the loan, because it would never have been 
the case that Ms B would have started repaying the loan at that time.
Instead, it would be expected that Barclays would give Ms B the opportunity to delay the 
commencement of the loan repayments if she was struggling financially at the time that they 
were due to commence. And this is was what happened here, with Ms B responding to a 
letter sent by Barclays when her course was coming to an end and asking Barclays to 
postpone the commencement of the loan repayments  to which Barclays agreed.
For these reasons, I dont feel that Barclays provided the loan irresponsibly in the manner 
that Ms B contends here, and it follows that I wont be upholding this aspect of her complaint.
Ms B is also unhappy with several aspects of the service shes received from Barclays 
during the term of the loan. Barclays dont dispute that they made errors in how they 
managed Ms Bs account, but they feel that the corrective actions theyve already undertaken and the compensation payments theyve already offered are such that no further 
action should be reasonably required from them.
Many of Ms Bs points of complaint stem from the period between February and August 
2018, when Ms B didnt make any payments towards the account. When Ms B contacted 
Barclays in August 2018 with the intention of resuming payments towards the account, she 
was told by Barclays that, because of the missed payments and the arrears that had accrued 
as a result, the loan would need to be defaulted and a new loan set up to enable Ms B to 
repay the balance owed.
This information appears to have been incorrect, and I say this because once an account 
has been defaulted the balance of that account is frozen such that it incurs no further 
interest. Also, the outstanding balance of a defaulted account can be repaid directly by the 
account holder  who usually continues to remain liable for the balance  although its often 
that case that the account balance is transferred to a specialist third-party debt recovery firm 
following the act of default. Importantly, it isnt the case that a defaulted account balance is 
transferred to a new loan account such that it would then incur interest.
This seems to have been recognised by Barclays when Ms B contacted them again in July 
2019, at which time the account remained in significant arrears but hadnt been defaulted as 
Barclays had previously stated it would be. At that time Barclays confirmed that they no 
longer intended to default the account but would arrange an affordable repayment plan with 
Ms B to enable her to resume repayments on the account.
I must be noted that the amount of repayment arrears that had accumulated on the account 
was such that the account should reasonably have been defaulted by Barclays  an event 
which usually occurs when an account is between three and six months in arrears, which Ms 
Bs account was in August 2018. 
Given that its clear from the information Ive assessed that Ms B was keen to avoid having a 
default recorded on her credit file, Im satisfied that Ms B has benefitted from Barclays not 
recorded the default on the account as they ought reasonably to have done.
Instead, Barclays agreed to restructure the loan, reporting the arrears that had accrued to 
the credit reference agencies, but without ever reporting the defaulting of the account 
consequent to those arrears. This seems reasonable to me, and I feel that it was more 
beneficial to Ms B than the other viable alternative at that time  which would have been to 
apply a default on the account backdated to August 2018 and to amend the credit file 
reporting accordingly. 
Im aware that Ms B feels that she was told by Barclays that all adverse reporting, including 
the missed payments, would be removed from her credit file. But I havent read anything in 
the documents or heard anything in the recorded calls provided to this service which 
corroborates this point. However, it is evident that Ms B was told that a default wouldnt be 
reported on her account  and a default hasnt been reported  but it doesnt follow from this 
that all adverse reporting would be removed from her credit file as Ms B contends.
Furthermore, it remains the case that Ms B didnt make payments towards the loan account 
for an extended period. And because of this Im satisfied that the reporting of these missed 
payments to the credit reference agencies by Barclays is fair and reasonable, given that the 
reporting is an accurate reflection of what took place, and I note that Barclays reporting 
these missed payment is what would be expected of Barclays in these circumstances. 
Barclays also took additional corrective action when Ms B contacted them in July 2019, 
including reimbursing to Ms Bs account £680 of interest that had accrued on the account. As mentioned above, one of the reasons that credit providers such as Barclays have an 
obligation to default an account on which arrears accrue and grow over several months is so 
that the outstanding balance of the account is frozen such that interest stops being accrued. 
This is to ensure that a consumer who is unable to meet the repayment commitments of a 
loan doesnt continue to fall further into arrears and hence further and further into debt.
As such, by reimbursing to Ms Bs account the £680 of accrued interest, Barclays were 
taking corrective action to restore Ms Bs account to the position it should have been in had 
the default been applied, and the balance of the account frozen, when it reasonably should 
have been in 2018. But importantly, to Ms Bs benefit, this was done without the actual act of 
the default being implemented. And Barclays also made a payment of £500 to Ms B to 
compensate her for what had happened, as well as agreed an affordable payment plan with 
Ms B moving forwards  albeit one which Barclays would later confirm wasnt tenable with 
the requirements of the loan product, as Ill discuss shortly.
Taking all these points into consideration, Im satisfied that Barclays did undertake the 
corrective action necessary to not only restore Ms B to the financial position that she should 
have been in had the account been defaulted when it reasonably should have been, but in 
fact to place Ms B into a better financial position that she should have been, given that 
Barclays then didnt actually default the account.
However, having agreed an affordable payment plan with Ms from this point, Barclays later 
contacted Ms B and explained that they were unable to honour that payment plan because 
the length of the agreed plan meant that the total loan repayment term would exceed the 
maximum term permitted for that particular loan product of 60 months.
Ms B was understandably unhappy with this. But Barclays then made the decision to apply a 
credit of £815 to the account  which was the amount that would have been outstanding had 
Ms B paid at the agreed monthly repayment rate until the end of the 60-month term. This 
effectively resulted in Barclays writing off £815 of the total repayment amount that Ms B had 
agreed to repay when taking the loan, and as such Im satisfied that Barclays again took fair 
corrective action to ensure that Ms B wasnt financially disadvantaged by what took place.   
Barclays also paid a further £200 compensation to Ms B because of the trouble and 
confusion that agreeing the untenable payment plan had caused. And Barclays offered a 
further £50 compensation to Ms B because of a later delay in advising Ms B that they 
considered that the missed payments that they were reporting to Ms Bs credit file were 
correct  and which, for the reasons already explained, I also feel are correct.
Finally, Ms B explained that when she called to make the final loan payment to Barclays, the 
payment she was asked to make was six pence more than the amount that shed been given 
in the letter that Barclays had sent to her. Given that Ms B had already referred her 
complaint to this service by that point I can appreciate how this would have exacerbated 
matters for her. But Barclays have confirmed that theyve subsequently written off the six 
pence that remained on the account following Ms Bs payment and so Im satisfied that no 
further action regarding this point is required. 
All of which means that, while Im satisfied that Barclays did make mistakes in how theyve 
managed Ms Bs loan account, Im also satisfied that the corrective action that Barclays have 
already taken has resulted in Ms B being in a better financial position than she would have 
been, had the loan account being defaulted by Barclays in 2018 when it should have been. 
This is because Barclays didnt ultimately default the account, and also because theyve 
credited Ms Bs account such that they have allowed her to repay £815 less than she originally agreed to repay.
However, Ms B has been significantly inconvenienced by what has taken place during the 
term of this loan. Barclays have acknowledged this and apologised to Ms B for it, and 
theyve made payments and offers of compensation totalling £750 as a result.
Matters of compensation can be subjective, with an amount considered as being fair and 
reasonable by one party not being considered as being such by someone else. But the total 
compensation amount of £750 here does feel fair to me, and its commensurate with what I 
would have instructed Barclays to pay, had they not already taken such steps themselves. 
As such, I can confirm both that I dont feel that Barclays need to take any further corrective 
action or that they should be instructed to pay any further compensation here. Ultimately, 
while I acknowledge that this ongoing situation must have been confusing and frustrating for 
Ms B, Im satisfied that the corrective action that Barclays have already taken, and the 
compensation amounts theyve already offered to Ms B, do represent a fair and reasonable 
resolution to what has taken place. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Ms B was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. I hope 
that Ms B will understand, given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman