DRN-3827048
The complaint
Mr M says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, irresponsibly lent to
him.
What happened
This complaint is about a 36-month instalment loan for £3,000 that ELL provided to
Mr M on 21 May 2021. The monthly repayments were £207.74 and the total repayable
was £7,478.64.
Mr M says the loan was unaffordable for him, he had multiple recently-opened credit cards 
that were at or near their limit. ELL would then not accept his reduced payment offer and 
continued to charge interest. He asks for all interest and charges to be removed and that he 
only pay back the money he received.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint saying ELLs checks were proportionate, but it did 
not make a fair lending decision based on the information it gathered.
ELL disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M would
be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way without experiencing significant adverse
consequences?
- If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
- If not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to do so?
2. Did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required ELL to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of Mr Ms ability to make the repayments under this agreement.
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so ELL had to think about whether repaying
the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr M. In practice this meant that
business had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr M undue
difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting
its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr M. Checks also
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of
time during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that
repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was
becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
ELL has provided evidence to show that before lending it asked for some information
from Mr M. It asked for his monthly income and checked this against recent payslips. It
estimated his living costs using national averages and added a buffer to accommodate 
unexpected costs. It carried out a credit check to understand his credit history and his 
existing credit commitments. It reviewed a recent bank statement to check other credit 
commitments and certain expenses. It asked about the purpose of the loan, which was in 
part to settle old defaults. Based on these checks ELL thought it was fair to lend.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think ELL made a fair lending
decision based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
There has been debate over the appropriate monthly income figure to use for Mr M  ELL 
used a YTD figure of £2,900 saying this was fairer. Our adjudicator pointed out in the two 
months prior to application it was lower at around £1,800. My finding that follows however is 
still valid using the higher value so I will not comment in detail on this. Only to say that as 
ELL relied on the YTD figure I would have expected it to understand why this was so much 
higher than the recent months. I cant see it did this.
ELL could see from its checks that Mr M had a significant amount of debt - £27,296. Just 
under 10% of that debt that had defaulted in late 2018 and was still to be settled. ELL points 
out Mr M planned to do this with its loan to repair his credit rating, but it also needed to 
consider that Mr M was taking on a high-cost loan to repay defaulted debt that would most 
likely be attracting no interest. That in itself might not be problematic but in the 
circumstances of this case I think it needed to be considered. ELL knew Mr M had previously 
had financial difficulties. And this loan increased Mr Ms monthly credit commitments to a 
very significant portion of his income. This is a strong indication that there is a high risk that 
the repayments would not be sustainable over the term of the loan  meaning it was likely Mr M would need to borrow again to repay, or suffer some other adverse financial 
consequence.  
ELL argues that the regulator does not set a debt to income ratio, nor how much of a 
consumers income should be spent on repaying credit each month.  And whilst that is the 
case, it does make clear that lenders need to be sure borrowers can sustainably repay their 
debt. I dont think the results of ELLs checks gave it the assurances it needed that that 
would be the case here. I note Mr M only made his first five repayments out of 36 before 
encountering difficulties.  
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give the loan to Mr M.
Mr M says ELL did not accept his offer for a reduced repayment and has continued to apply 
interest. As I am upholding the complaint all interest will be removed from Mr Ms loan 
account. But I would remind ELL of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly if it needs to agree a 
repayment plan for the capital.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr M to repay the capital amount that he borrowed as he
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that
shouldnt have been given to him. So he has lost out and ELL needs to put things right.
It should:
Refund all the interest and charges on the loan  so add up the total Mr M repaid and
deduct the sum from the capital amount.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in him having effectively made
payments above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ms loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, ELL 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr M.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit files in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr M
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday 
Loans, must put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman