DRN-2826176
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as K, complains that Metro Bank Plc proceeded with an 
account switch despite its director asking for the switch to be cancelled. K is unhappy with 
the amount of compensation offered by Metro.
Mr C, who is a director of K, brings the complaint on Ks behalf.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr C signed an agreement for Ks account to be switched to Metro from 
another bank, which Ill refer to as A. 
Metro opened Ks new business account and initiated the switch process on 2 November 
2020.
Mr C emailed Metro on 5 November stating that the switch should not proceed if there were 
going to be any issues with the overdraft. Metro replied to Mr C and confirmed they were 
unable to secure an overdraft on Ks new account. They said theyd tried to cancel the 
switch, but their switching team had said it was too late.
The switch completed on 13 November 2020 and A closed Ks bank account with them on 
the same day.
Mr C raised a complaint on Ks behalf with Metro and they quickly responded, apologising for 
not ensuring the overdraft was in place before the switch was initiated. They also 
acknowledged the switch could still have been stopped when Mr C requested it.
Following further discussions, Metro agreed to provide an overdraft subject to Mr C providing 
a personal guarantee, or a copy of the original overdraft facility letter from A. Mr C didnt 
want to provide either of these to Metro so they agreed to close the account. Metro offered K 
£500 compensation for their errors.
Mr C was unhappy with the amount of compensation offered by Metro, so he brought the 
complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought Metros offer of £500 was fair and reasonable for the errors they 
had made. She didnt think Metro needed to do any more as they had tried to put things right 
for K, though Mr C didnt accept the terms of the overdraft theyd offered.
Mr C didnt agree, so the case was escalated for an ombudsmans decision. Mr C said the 
award went nowhere near addressing the amount of damage that had been done to K. He 
said Metros errors had caused K cash flow issues and reputational damage. 
I contacted Mr C to ask for any additional information or evidence which would help me 
ascertain the impact this matter had on K. 
Mr C provided the following estimates:
£16,500 + VAT for 30 days dealing with the bank to resolve the matter; and
£30,000 - £50,000 for reputational damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but I wont be upholding this complaint. Ive 
explained why below.
There is no dispute that Metro made some errors in the account switching process. They 
should have ensured the overdraft facility was in place before proceeding with the switch 
and they should have cancelled the switch when Mr C requested a cancellation.
Nevertheless, Metro attempted to resolve the situation for Mr C without the need for K to 
close the account. They offered an overdraft facility to K subject to Mr C providing a copy of 
the original overdraft facility letter from A or a personal guarantee. Mr C declined this offer. 
Ive considered whether it was fair of Metro to ask for this information or a personal 
guarantee. Metro is entitled to apply its own lending policy so long as it does so fairly. Metro 
have told us they would have required this information to approve the overdraft, even if it had 
been agreed at the outset and before the switch was initiated. So, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest that Metro treated K unfairly or unreasonably with this request.
Compensation
I understand this matter has caused inconvenience to both Mr C and K. 
Metro have offered to pay £500 to K in recognition of their errors and I consider this to be a 
fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances of this complaint. Metro offered K a resolution 
to the overdraft issue, which Mr C declined, and it would not be reasonable for me to hold 
Metro responsible for the delays caused by A when K asked for its account with them to be 
reopened. As a result, I wont be asking Metro to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive explained above, and I 
wont be asking Metro Bank Plc to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf of  
K, to accept or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Tara Richardson
Ombudsman