DRN-3156231
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc recorded incorrect information on its 
records that meant Mr M could not pass security measures.
What happened
Mr M says HSBC recorded his date of birth incorrectly on its records. He says as a result he 
couldnt pass HSBCs security measures and was stranded abroad without account access. 
Mr M says he missed out on flights home from Africa and on another occasion was stuck in 
Denmark. He says he has not been offered appropriate compensation and says HSBCs 
offer of £650 doesnt go far enough. Mr M says problems have been going on for some 
years.
HSBC accepts it made a mistake about the date of birth and has apologised. It says the 
account was originally blocked for security reasons, but it accepts it then made a mistake 
with the date of birth issue. HSBC says it has updated its records and so the problem 
shouldnt take place again. It says it has offered £650 compensation for what took place.
Mr M brought the complaint to us and confirmed that although he was working abroad, he is 
responsible for the cost of his travel. Our investigator thought HSBCs compensation offer 
appropriate and didnt think there was any actual evidence of the increase in Mr Ms flight 
costs. The investigator didnt think it our role to punish a business and that HSBC had now 
amended its records.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says he has had problems for five years.
I asked both sides for further information. Mr M has confirmed he would like at least £25,000 
compensation based on £5,000 per year of problems and says there were problems in 2014 
in a different country. HSBC says it responded to Mr Ms complaint in September 2019 about 
the problems he experienced trying to buy airline tickets whilst in Africa.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has made a fair and reasonable 
compensation offer of £650. I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my decision. It would 
be useful if I make clear at the outset that we are not HSBCs regulator and so its not our 
role to punish a business. 
I also make clear at the outset that I can see that Mr M made a complaint to HSBC in August 
2019 about the problems he experienced trying to buy airline tickets whilst in Africa. I can 
see that Mr M has provided us with details of the route he was forced to take as a result of 
not being able to buy the tickets he wanted and he has provided us with his letter of 
complaint to HSBC from that time. HSBC has given us, in response to one of my questions 
of it, a copy of its final response letter dated 2 September 2019. That response makes clear 
that Mr M had six months to bring any complaint to us about those issues, but his complaint 
was brought to us in May 2021 which is clearly sometime after that six-month period ended. 
That means I cant consider that part of the complaint due to the rules we operate under. In 
any event I can see that Mr M brings a complaint mainly about the problems caused by the 
incorrect date of birth. And without actual evidence of the increase in the cost of flight tickets 
it would be impossible to award that amount.
There is no question here that HSBC made a mistake by incorrectly recording Mr Ms date of 
birth on its records. It is not entirely clear, but it seems that the mistake took place following 
security concerns HSBC had. I am sure Mr M appreciates that fraud is a major problem for 
banks and building societies and that they must have security measures in place to protect 
its and its customers money. That of course means on occasions legitimate customers and 
legitimate transactions are subject to security measures which inevitably cause 
inconvenience. But I dont think that means that a business has automatically acted unfairly.
I have looked carefully at HSBCs records and can see that it has on occasions applied 
security measures on Mr Ms account. I appreciate that on occasions, that due to Mr Ms 
work location, that it would have been impractical for him to attend a HSBC branch. But I 
have made clear that HSBC is entitled to apply such measures where it has security 
concerns. So, I dont think HSBC made a mistake or acted unfairly by applying security 
measures. But in this case, it was impossible for Mr M to pass any security measures due to 
the incorrect date of birth.
I asked HSBC to clarify when the incorrect date of birth was recorded, and it says it took 
place in April 2021. And I can see that Mr M brought his complaint to us in May 2021. So, I 
think it likely that is when the mistake was made, and I have not seen evidence that it was 
made before that date or linked to previous security problems. I appreciate in those 
circumstances that Mr M was caused significant inconvenience and distress and no doubt 
would have been frustrated by this mistake. But Im satisfied that HSBC has fairly apologised 
for what took place and has amended its mistake.
The key issue is the level of compensation. And Im satisfied that HSBCs offer is fair and 
reasonable. I have not seen any evidence of financial loss by Mr M. I appreciate Mr M says 
he should be awarded £25,000 based on £5,000 each year he has experienced problems. 
But that is not how we approach compensation awards and I have made clear that I am 
dealing mainly with what I can see was Mr Ms main part of the complaint he brought to us 
namely the incorrect date of birth issue. I have also made clear that HSBC has dealt with Mr 
Ms complaint about the flights in 2019 and I have explained why I cant comment further on 
that. I appreciate Mr M says there have been other issues over the years but equally I cant 
see any evidence that Mr M made HSBC aware of them or that it investigated them. I can 
only deal with matters that have been brought to a business and that have been investigated 
by it.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBCs total compensation offer of £650 is fair and reasonable. If 
Mr M decides he wishes to accept it, then it would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank Plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation 
offer of £650. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman