DRN-4475802
The complaint
Mr A - in his capacity as director of a limited company (who Ill call S), complains that         
Metro Bank PLC restricted S company current account without notification.  
Mr A is represented in this complaint by his wife  Mrs A. But for ease of reading, Ill refer to 
Mr A and S throughout this decision. 
 
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so I wont repeat everything in detail 
here. 
But in summary, in early January 2023 Metro restricted the use of S current account. Mr A 
says this led to several consequences including direct debits being returned unpaid resulting 
in the disconnection of the gas and electricity supply, having to pay S employees wages 
from his own personal funds and a credit payment received from a third-party wasnt 
returned as requested.
 
Mr A referred his complaint to our service when he first realised S account had been 
restricted which was before hed complained to Metro. This matter has continued throughout 
2023 and Mr A says its caused him and his wife distress and inconvenience and affected his 
health having previously suffered from a serious medical condition. 
 
Our investigator contacted Metro. It responded to say that Ss account was restricted as an 
Invoice Finance Agreement - provided to S by separate subsidiary limited company, was in 
breach of the terms and conditions. So, it didnt agree that it had done anything wrong when 
it restricted S account.  
Our investigator considered what had happened. He said that he couldnt look at the issues 
relating to the Invoice Finance Agreement. But, given the wider circumstances, he didnt 
think Metro had acted incorrectly when it restricted S account as this had been done in line 
with the account terms and conditions. However, he did think Metro had acted unfairly in 
continuing to debit S company current account with account fees when the account couldnt 
be accessed. He recommended that Metro refund the account fees applied to S current 
account since the restriction had been in place.
  
Metro agreed to the investigators recommendation. But Mr A didnt accept the outcome. He 
said that the financial loss and distress and inconvenience caused hadnt been addressed. 
As agreement wasnt reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has provided a considerable amount of information in relation to this complaint and Im 
aware I have only summarised the circumstances of the complaint above. So, Id like to 
reassure Mr A that I have read and considered his correspondence in full. And I hope the 
fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it is not necessary for me to respond 
to every point made, but to consider the crux of the complaint.
  
Having done so, while I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling about what happened with S 
account - overall, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Firstly, I think its important to set out the remit of this decision. This decision solely relates to 
S company current account. But, from what Ive seen, Metros decision to restrict the 
account stems from issues relating to a linked Invoice Finance Agreement. As the finance 
agreement was provided to S by a separate limited company, I cant comment specifically on 
what happened with that finance agreement within this complaint. But I can refer to it in 
relation to how it impacted S current account. 
  
As I understand it, the crux of the complaint about S company current account is that Metro 
didnt provide notification that the account would be restricted. And that Metro has continued 
to apply account fees although the account is not able to be used in the normal way. 
 
Ive seen that  in October 2022, Metro wrote to S giving three months notice of its intention 
to terminate the Invoice Finance Agreement. In these circumstances, Im persuaded that 
Metro had concerns about how the finance agreement was being used. And, while the 
Invoice Finance Agreement was provided by a separate subsidiary limited company, Im also 
persuaded there is a link between the finance agreement and S company current account.
Section 13.2 of Metros business account terms and conditions  which Mr A would have 
agreed to when S company current account was opened, says:
For any of the reasons below we may:
 
suspend, stop or reduce a service, facility or an account we provide 
recall or not make a payment;
refuse to follow, or ask for conrmation, before following an instruction;
delay (or refuse) opening or closing your account; or
delay (or refuse) withdrawals or payments to or from your account or paying you 
interest. 
Given the wider circumstances surrounding the Invoice Finance Agreement, I dont find that 
Metro acted unfairly when it suspended S company current account. And, as the account 
terms dont stipulate that notice has to be provided when an account is restricted, Im not 
persuaded that Metro did anything wrong or acted unfairly when it didnt provide S with 
written notice of its intention to do so. 
I note Mr A has mentioned the distress this matter has caused him and Mrs A and the impact 
its had on his health. And Im sorry to hear about Mr As health concerns. But the eligible 
complaint here is S, not Mr and Mrs A personally. Limited companies like S are corporate 
bodies, and so are not capable suffering distress. If I thought Metro had restricted S account 
unfairly, I can award compensation for any inconvenience caused to S. But, for the reasons 
given above, Im not persuaded it did anything wrong.    
However, like the investigator, I find it was unfair for Metro to continue to charge for an 
account S could no longer effectively use. So, Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable that the account fees charged to S account from when the current account was restricted to be 
refunded.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold S complaint.
Metro Bank PLC should now refund all the account fees charged to S current account from 
the date the account was restricted.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 January 2024.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman