DRN-3241396
The complaint
Mr A complains that Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans provided him with a 
loan that he was unable to afford to repay.  
What happened
In January 2020 Mr A took out a loan with Oakbrook for £600 for car purchase/repairs, over 
a period of 12 months at a repayment rate of £69 per month. Mr A made 5 payments but he 
ceased paying as he couldnt afford to make further repayments.
Mr A consulted a claims management company, N, who contacted Oakbrook to advise that 
Mr A wasnt able to afford the repayments, and that based on his financial circumstances 
and credit record, Oakbrook shouldnt have advanced the loan to him. Oakbrook responded 
that it had considered Mr As income, credit history and monthly creditor commitments at the 
point of the application for credit and this did not suggest that the loan was unaffordable at 
that point.
On referral to this service our investigator said that although the credit checks were 
proportionate, bearing in mind his income, and general outgoings Mr As monthly 
repayments for consumer credit, the loan was likely to be unaffordable. 
In response Oakbrook proposed to reset the loan, and remove all interest charges. This 
disclosed that there was an outstanding balance of capital repayable, of £252.10. Mr A 
hasnt responded to this offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to consider whether Oakbrook completed reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy itself that Mr A would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way and/or without 
experiencing significant adverse consequences. Then taking that into account I have to 
consider whether in the circumstances Oakbrook made a fair lending decision.
In this case Oakbrook obtained from Mr A details of his income and monthly expenditure. It 
noted that he was living at home with his parents. It also carried out a credit check through a 
credit reference agency. 
Those checks revealed that Mr A had several high interest loans, and two high interest credit 
cards with balances on them. It also showed that he had an outstanding County Court 
Judgment (CCJ). It also estimated his general monthly expenditure to be £852.08, using 
Office for National Statistics scoring (ONS). It calculated that out of an income of £1,775.86 
per month, Mr A had a disposable income of £324 per month, so could afford the 
repayments for the loan.
Whilst I accept that Oakbrook carried out reasonable and proportionate checks, based on 
the amount of the loan and its repayment period, I think Oakbrook underestimated Mr As 
financial obligations due to the high amount of consumer credit he had incurred. Our 
investigator estimated that Mr A had a disposable income of around £59 per month to meet 
the £69 repayment for the loan. I bear in mind also that he had clearly had to restructure a 
number of his loans.
So, I conclude that Oakbrook didnt in the circumstances make a fair lending decision. It has 
already agreed to our investigators proposals to remove interest from the account and to 
remove any negative information regarding the loan from its credit file.
Putting things right
Oakbrook should:
 refund all interest and charges Mr A paid on his loan with it.
pay interest* of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement.
Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan.
Treat any payments made by Mr A as payments towards the capital amount of £600.
If Mr A has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded to him 
with 8% simple interest* from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
If theres still an outstanding balance, Oakbrook should come to a reasonable repayment 
plan with Mr A.
Remove any adverse information about the loan from Mr As credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans to take 
off tax from this interest. It must give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
he asks for one.
  
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Oakbrook Finance Limited trading as Likely Loans to 
provide the remedy set out under Putting things right above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman