DRN-4422954
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy with the way in which Aviva Insurance Limited has handled a claim made 
under her private medical insurance policy (the policy). 
What happened
In or around 2020, Mrs F was diagnosed with branch retinal vein occlusions with macula 
oedema (eye condition) for which she started receiving regular treatment. She claimed 
under the policy and the costs of treatment were met. 
In early 2022, Aviva contacted Mrs F and informed her that it wouldnt be covering any 
further treatment for her eye condition as it amounted to a chronic condition. It subsequently 
agreed cover would remain in place for whatever is medically necessary to treat her eye 
condition, subject to the policy terms, until a date towards the end of 2022. 
Aviva recommended during this period Mrs F speak to her consultant to discuss her future 
care. And that the available options after this date were to either consider transitioning to the 
NHS for continuation of her medical care or to self-fund any treatment required. 
After the date on which cover ceased for the eye condition, Mrs F raised concerns about the 
decision taken by Aviva to cease covering treatment for her eye condition and the overall 
service shed received.
In its final response letter dated Aviva maintained its decision that Mrs Fs eye condition was 
chronic and continued treatment wasnt covered under the policy. 
However, it did accept that it had caused Mrs F confusion and inconvenience by the poor 
administration of her claim. It apologised and offered £200 compensation. Aviva says 
compensation wasnt paid as Mrs F declined to accept it. 
Unhappy Mrs F complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt 
think Aviva had to do anything further. Mrs F disagreed. 
So, this complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Avivas decision to stop covering treatment for the eye condition
Aviva has an obligation to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim.
Aviva says the policy isnt designed to support the treatment of long term or chronic medical 
conditions. Apart from treatment for cancer, the policy says Aviva doesnt cover treatment of 
a chronic condition including:
regular planned checkups for a chronic condition where you are likely to need 
treatment
expected deterioration of a chronic condition which needs regular consultations, 
diagnostic tests or treatment from a specialist
However, the policy does cover unexpected acute flare-ups of a chronic condition until the 
condition has re-stabilised.
A chronic condition is defined as: a disease, illness or injury that has one or more of the 
following characteristics:
it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, examinations, check-
ups and/or tests
it needs ongoing or long-term control or relief of symptoms
it requires your rehabilitation or for you to be specially trained to cope with it
it continues indefinitely
it has no known cure
it comes back or is likely to come back.
Under the policy treatment is defined as: surgical or medical services (including diagnostic 
tests) that are needed to diagnose, relieve or cure a disease, illness or injury.
Im not a medical expert so Ive relied on the medical information available to me when 
deciding whether Aviva has fairly concluded whether the eye condition is chronic as defined 
by the policy.
Mrs F has been having regular treatment for her eye condition since 2020 to help prevent 
her eyesight deteriorating. Shes provided us with some information about her eye condition 
and Ive also considered information about the eye condition provided by the NHS, specialist 
eye hospitals and websites from leading charities and organisations regarding specific eye 
conditions.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that there isnt currently a known cure for the 
eye condition. The medical information Ive seen supports that the eye condition can be 
stabilised through eye injections or laser treatment - and patients eyesight can be 
maintained or improved by reducing the associated macular oedema. 
So, I dont think Aviva has unfairly and unreasonably concluded that the eye condition is a 
chronic condition as defined by the policy. Not only is there no known cure but Im 
persuaded that it needs ongoing or long-term monitoring through consultations, 
examinations, check-ups and/or tests. 
I have a lot of sympathy for Mrs Fs situation, and I can, of course, understand why she 
would like Aviva to continue to cover treatment, as she says, to save the sight in her eye. 
However, Im persuaded that Aviva has reasonably relied on the policy term that it wont 
cover treatment for chronic conditions when maintaining its decision at the end of 2022 that it 
would be ceasing cover for treatment of Mrs Fs eye treatment. That was after it had given 
fair notice of its decision to Mrs F in early 2022.Service issues
Aviva has accepted that, at times, it shouldve provided Mrs F with better service. I can 
understand why Mrs F wouldve been frustrated and concerned that Avivas representatives 
were referring to different eye conditions which she wasnt being treated for. Further, Aviva 
contacted her consultants secretary to confirm the nature of the eye condition without 
obtaining Mrs Fs explicit consent. Aviva apologised and offered Mrs F £200 compensation.
Mrs F doesnt think thats sufficient. She also says that Avivas representative spoke to her 
rudely during a particular call when she asked whether the representative had rung her 
consultant. She says the reply was: No, I havent I havent had time! 
Even if Mrs F is right and she was spoken to badly during that call, Im satisfied that £200 
fairly compensates her for the overall distress and inconvenience she experienced because 
of Avivas service failings in this case. I can understand that Mrs Fs eye condition can be 
made worse by stress and the additional worry, confusion and frustration was unnecessary. 
But ultimately, Im satisfied that the decision taken to stop covering treatment for the eye 
condition as it was a chronic condition under the policy more likely than not to be the main 
issue that upset her the most and she was most worried about. And for the reasons set out 
above, I think Avivas conclusion in this respect is fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
I understand from Aviva that the offer of £200 compensation set out in the final response 
letter wasnt accepted so hasnt been paid by Aviva. That being the case, Im satisfied that 
Aviva should pay Mrs F £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience its already 
offered.
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £200 to Mrs F to settle the 
complaint and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. My decision is that Aviva Insurance 
Limited should pay £200 to Mrs F if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman