DRN-4339960
Complaint
Miss C has complained about a loan Bradford District Credit Union Limited (BDCU) 
provided to her. She says that she does not recall completing an affordability assessment 
and she was surprised to be accepted as she had an extremely poor credit rating.
Background
BDCU provided Miss C with a loan for £5,000.00 in November 2022. This loan had an APR 
of 42.58% and had a 36-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£8,237.63, which included interest, fees and charges of £3,237.63, was due to be repaid in 
35 monthly instalments of £229.02 followed by a final instalment of £221.93. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Miss C and BDCU had told us. And he thought that 
BDCU hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss C unfairly. So she didnt recommend  
Miss Cs complaint be upheld. Miss C disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Cs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
BDCU needed to make sure that it acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss C. As part of 
this, it needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that the loan was affordable. In practice, 
what this means is BDCU needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to have a 
reasonable understanding of whether Miss C could afford to make his monthly repayments 
before providing this loan. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
BDCU says it agreed to Miss Cs application after she provided details of her income. It says 
it also carried out a credit check to assess Miss Cs existing indebtedness and relied on 
open banking access to get an idea of Miss Cs regular living expenses. In its view, all of this 
information showed Miss C could afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On 
the other hand, Miss C has said she had an extremely poor credit rating and should not have 
been accepted for this loan.
Ive carefully thought about what Miss C and BDCU have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that BDCU not only asked Miss C for details about her 
income, it also carried out a credit check to assess Miss Cs indebtedness. 
BDCUs credit searches also did show that Miss C had some existing debts. But its fair to 
say that these werent excessive. Having said that the credit searches also showed that  
Miss C had had previous difficulties with credit in the form of defaults  albeit these were 
historic as they were more than three years prior to this application. 
In any event, as part of its checks I would have expected BDCU to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Miss Cs regular living expenses as well as her income and existing 
credit commitments. And the open banking information Miss C allowed BDCU to does 
appear to show that when her committed regular living expenses and existing credit 
commitments were deducted from his monthly income, she did have the funds, at the time at 
least, to sustainably make the repayments for this loan. 
Im sorry to hear that Miss C experienced difficulty making the payments. But the key here is 
that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances where a 
lender did something wrong. And I dont think that BDCU could possibly be expected to have 
known that the payments to this agreement were unaffordable, bearing in mind that 
reasonable and proportionate checks are unlikely to have shown that this was the case.
Ive also seen what Miss C has said about the monthly payment for the loan fluctuating 
during the course of her application. I understand that the reason for the fluctuation is 
because Miss C was provided with a quote using the representative interest rate. And after 
Miss Cs loan application was reviewed by an underwriter the interest rate she received was 
higher than the representative rate and this increased her monthly payment.
I can understand why Miss C would be unhappy at having to make higher loan payments. 
However, its clear that she knew her payments would be higher before she was provided 
with her loan as she queried the monthly payments before she signed her agreement. 
As Miss C signed her agreement and entered into her loan after learning of the higher 
payments, I can only assume that she did so willing to accept the terms of the contract she 
was entering into. And, in these circumstances, I dont think that BDCU acted unfairly in this 
regard. 
So overall I dont think that BDCU treated Miss C unfairly or unreasonably when providing 
her with her loan. And Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Miss C. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
shell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind BDCU of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on 
Miss Cs loan and it be the case that she is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman