DRN-3191289
The complaint
Mr H, through a representative, says UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr H took out two guarantor loans from UK Credit. A summary of his borrowing follows.
loan taken outvalue, 
£term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, 
£total 
repayable, £
1 11/07/2016 3,000 24 191.08 4,585.92
2 06/05/2018 1,200 12 125.76 1.509.12
Loan 2 was used in part to settle loan 1. Mr H says UK Credit failed to carry out an effective 
affordability assessment. It did not provide enough information about the terms of the loan or 
the total cost, or adequately review Mr Hs personal circumstances.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said from the checks UK 
Credit carried out for loan 1 it could see Mr H wasnt repaying his existing credit 
commitments and so it should not have approved his application for more credit. His total 
outgoings also exceeded his income. At the time of loan 2 it seemed Mr Hs finances had got 
worse; he had not significantly reduced the balances on his defaulted accounts showing he 
was prioritising other expenditure. So he concluded UK Credit should not have given loan 2. 
UK Credit disagreed with this assessment saying in summary, it didnt think the evidence the
investigator had pointed to indicated financial distress. It said it was unfair to only look at 
Mr Hs income and outgoings at a summary level. It had reviewed his bank statements in 
detail which showed the loans were affordable when taking into account income and 
essential expenditure. It was only Mr Hs high level of discretionary spend in leisure that 
made it seem otherwise. As he could clearly control and reduce this it is unfair to conclude 
that the loans were unaffordable. Had Mr H refrained from overspending on leisure he could 
have reduced his debts.
It asked for an ombudsman to review the case, so it was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The regulations, rules and guidance that were in place when UK Credit lent to Mr H
obliged UK Credit to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr H could afford to repay
what he owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability
assessment or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr H. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr H.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for. In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr H, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing
Mr Hs loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the 
loans in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make fair lending decisions?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some information from Mr H before it approved the loans. It asked for
details of his income and living costs. It checked his credit file to understand his credit history 
and his existing credit commitments. It discussed the adverse data on his file with him to 
understand the causes. It checked a recent bank statement for loan 1. It asked about the 
purpose of the loans, the first was to cover relocation costs and to repay a £300 short-term 
loan. Loan 2 was to pay for a holiday, including spending money. From these checks 
combined UK Credit concluded Mr H had sufficient monthly disposable income for the loans 
to be affordable.
I think the checks UK Credit carried out were proportionate, but I am not persuaded it made 
fair lending decisions based on the information it gathered. Ill explain why.
Loan 1
UK Credit knew from Mr Hs credit check that he had defaulted on three accounts in the month prior and had one unsettled County Court Judgement (CCJ) from 2014. These debts 
totalled over £2,000. And whilst Mr H provided various explanations for the delinquent 
accounts I think UK Credit ought to have been concerned about them. In addition it could 
see he was over his overdraft limit of £1,070 and was incurring unarranged overdraft fees. 
UK Credit was obliged (see extract from CONC below) to consider the ability of Mr H to 
make repayments as they fell due while meeting other reasonable commitments and I think 
there was sufficient evidence he was already failing to do this. 
This loan wasnt going to be used to settle any of these debts  it was primarily to cover his 
relocation expenses as he was moving to a different city. And as he didnt intend to repay his 
overdraft I think UK Credit ought to have realised there was a high-risk Mr H would be using 
it to make his repayments  and so borrowing to repay. This contravenes the regulators 
guidelines at the time set out in its Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC 5.3.1, section 6):
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end agreement, 
within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and unsustainable 
has the opposite meaning. 
[Note: paragraphs 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In response to the investigators assessment UK Credit argued that a full review of Mr Hs 
bank statements was needed, and it is unfair to solely rely on the summary that shows his 
outgoings exceed his income. This is a reasonable point, and in different circumstances the 
analysis it provided may have altered the outcome. But for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think this case turns on the monthly pounds and pence affordability. Rather, I find there were 
signs that Mr Hs financial position was such that the loan was unlikely to be sustainably 
affordable and so cause adverse financial consequences. It follows I think UK Credit was 
wrong to give loan 1 to Mr H. 
Loan 2
When Mr H applied for loan 2, UK Credit saw that a second CCJ had been registered 
against him in March 2018. I note he was unable to explain this on the application call. His 
2014 CCJ remained unsettled. There had been no reduction in the balance of his highest-
value defaulted account which he told the lender remained in dispute. Mr H had also 
increased his overdraft limit to £4,000 and the credit check showed he was using £2,364 of 
that facility - over double the amount at the time of loan 1. For the same reasons that I have 
set out in detail above I think UK Credit ought to have realised there was a risk this loan 
would not be sustainably affordable for Mr H. And so it should not have lent to him.
In relation to both loans UK Credit argues that it was Mr Hs overspending on discretionary 
costs that prevented him being in a better financial position and he could change this  it 
says there must be some responsibility placed on the borrower. Whilst that may be accurate, it doesnt change the lenders responsibility to react appropriately to the results of its 
creditworthy checks in order to reach a fair lending decision. And as I have explained above, 
I think it failed to do so.
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I dont find that it did. Mr H said he was given inadequate information about the loan. But the 
loan agreements Mr H signed made clear the costs and terms of the loan. And Mr H 
confirmed on both application calls that he had received and read these terms. 
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr H to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt
have been given to him. So he has lost out and UK Credit needs to put things right.
It should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr H received as a result of having been given 
both loans. The repayments Mr H made should be deducted from this amount. 
If reworking Mr Hs loan accounts results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Hs loan accounts results in an outstanding capital balance, UK
Credit should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr H.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give
Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Hs complaint. UK Credit Limited must put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman