DRN-2738005
The complaint
Mr Z complains that TSB Bank PLC (TSB) failed to help him open a savings pot in his app, 
when a technical issue prevented the pot from opening.
What happened
Mr Z upgraded his account with TSB, to an account that included the option of savings pots. 
Mr Z was presented with an error message when he tried to open a pot, so he called TSB on 
10 November 2020 to try to fix the problem.
TSB couldnt fix the error on the phone, so it said it would raise the error internally for it to be 
investigated. And that Mr Z could go to branch to set up the pot if he needed to in the 
meantime. Mr Z said he didnt have time to visit a branch from Monday to Friday, so he 
agreed to wait and try again at a later date. 
TSB didnt give Mr Z a timeframe in which he should expect the feature to be working, but it 
did say to try again in a couple of days, in case the problem had been fixed.
The problem remained and after Mr Z tried talking to TSB about the issue on social media, 
he complained. TSB issued its final response on 27 November 2020. It said it understood his 
frustrations, and repeated that he could go to a local branch to get the pot set up. It also paid 
him £25 compensation for the upset and frustration hed experienced.
Mr Z remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service. TSB fixed the issue on 
4 February, but Mr Z wanted our service to consider TSBs actions before the problem was 
resolved.
Our investigator issued two views. In the first, she said TSB should pay Mr Z a further £100 
in compensation. She said Mr Z was unable to visit a branch because he was caring for a 
vulnerable person, and so wanted to reduce social contact due to the ongoing Coronavirus 
pandemic. And she said TSB had told her it could arrange calls with some customers, if they 
were unable to go to branch.
TSB responded, saying the option to fix the matter on the phone only became available after 
it had completed its investigation. It said that wasnt possible in November and December, 
when Mr Z first complained.
In the second view, our investigator took into account what TSB had said. In light of the 
timeline, she thought TSB had done enough to put things right by paying him £25. Mr Z 
didnt agree. He said hed had to call TSB on many occasions, and that every time he did so, 
he was treated like it was the first time hed reported the issue. He also felt TSB wouldnt 
have fixed the problem, had he not escalated the matter to our service.
Because our investigator couldnt reach a resolution, the matter came to me to issue a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr Z reported the matter to TSB, it told him it would need to investigate the matter 
internally and couldnt fix the problem there and then. But it did say Mr Z could go to branch 
if he couldnt wait. It repeated that solution in its final response letter.
Mr Z told TSB he didnt have time to visit a branch during the working week, but later told our 
service he was unable to attend branch because he was caring for a vulnerable relative. But 
regardless of why Mr Z wasnt able to attend branch, TSB wasnt able to fix Mr Zs problem 
on the phone when he contacted it.
So, I cant reasonably say TSB should have done more to help Mr Z. It told him it would 
need to investigate the problem and said it didnt know when the problem would be fixed. I 
appreciate Mr Z wanted the savings pot to be opened, but I havent seen anything to suggest 
TSB could have solved his problem more quickly.
TSB says it only has a record of one call from Mr Z, but Mr Z says he called in more times. I 
accept its entirely possible that TSB didnt make a note of all of Mr Zs calls, so I have no 
reason to question that Mr Z chased TSB. But given TSBs initial response, i.e. that it would 
need to investigate the matter internally, I cant say TSBs actions caused Mr Z to keep 
chasing. 
While it did tell him to check back in two days after his first call, Im satisfied that advice was 
given on the off chance the issue had been fixed, and wasnt an indication of when Mr Z 
should expect it to be fixed.
TSB has explained what caused the technical error, and Im satisfied it couldnt have done 
more to fix the problem for Mr Z. Mr Zs core banking facilities, i.e. his ability to pay and 
receive money, werent affected and I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mr Z suffered 
any losses. 
Ive considered everything Mr Z has told our service and I recognise he experienced a 
degree of inconvenience and distress as a result of this. But I dont hold TSB responsible for 
the majority of the trouble and upset Mr Z experienced, and I consider TSB has done 
enough to put things right for Mr Z by paying him £25. So, for the reasons I have set out 
above, I dont uphold Mr Zs complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman