DRN-3148764
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Experian Limited reporting a default on his credit file.
What happened
This complaint is about a default registered by a phone company.
Mr S told Experian the default was incorrect. Experian raised a dispute with the phone 
company on his behalf, but the phone company said the information was correct and that 
Mr S could speak to them directly.
Experian forwarded the phone companys response to Mr S, and explained they couldnt 
change the data without the phone companys permission.
Mr S was unhappy with this, and also complained about Experian holding his data more 
generally. He asked for them to delete all his data, but Experian explained that they were 
allowed to process his data even if he objected, since as a credit reference agency they had 
a legitimate interest.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Experian had taken things as far as they could with the phone company, and 
Mr S would need to complain to the phone company directly if he felt they were giving 
Experian the wrong information. They referred him to the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) in regard to his wider concerns about how his data is handled in general.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review his case afresh, so the complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do understand that it may have been frustrating for Mr S that Experian could not remove 
the default as he wanted them to.
However, I should clarify how it works. Theres a common misconception that the credit 
reference agency owns the data on the credit file. But its the businesses reporting the data, 
not the agency, who own it. Essentially, Experian collect, collate, and display the information 
that theyre given, and they generally have a reliance on the data that businesses give them.
So here, its the phone company who owns the data theyre reporting to Experian. And 
broadly speaking, the phone company are responsible for that information. Experian cant 
change the data without the phone companys permission.
What Experian can do is raise a dispute on Mr Ss behalf. But theyve already done that 
here. And the phone company said the data was correct. They did not give Experian 
permission to change it. Experian forwarded their response to Mr S, and marked on his 
credit file that the data was under dispute. And in this case, theres really not much more 
they could have done.
If Mr S would like to dispute the data further, then he should contact the phone company. If 
the phone company doesnt resolve his complaint, he may be able to take them to the 
Communications Ombudsman. But I think hes taken things as far as he can with Experian.
In regard to Mr Ss wider concerns about Experian handling his data more generally: as our 
investigator explained, were not best placed to handle that. Its the ICO who look at data 
protection issues more widely. Mr S may find the ICOs website helpful, particularly their 
Q&A about credit and credit referencing: https://ico.org.uk/your-data-matters/credit/ There, 
they explain that credit reference agencies do not need ones consent to hold information, 
and that credit reference agencies cannot generally amend data without the permission of 
the company who gave them the data.
As for this individual situation, I have not found Experian to have done anything substantially 
wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman