DRN-2743453
The complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct bank, unfairly closed his 
accounts. He also complains that a member of staff was abusive to him, and that the banks 
ATM was faulty and may have retained his money.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr T deposited some cash in an automated teller machine (ATM). He cannot 
remember if this was £200 or £300. It is not in dispute that the cash machine was faulty and 
that it did not accept his cash, which is to say that it took his money and then dispensed a 
receipt which said that the deposit had been declined. The receipt did not say how much 
money Mr T had deposited.
Mr T raised this with the branch staff, who gave him £200 in cash. Mr T wants to be assured 
that they gave him the correct amount. There is a dispute about what happened while Mr T 
was in the branch. Mr T complains that a member of staff was abusive to him. The bank 
says that Mr T was racially abusive to its staff, and as a result it closed his accounts, after 
giving him two months notice. Mr T insists that he was not racially abusive, although he 
accepts that he might have sworn at a staff member.
Mr T brought this complaint to our Service. He complained about the conduct of the branch 
staff and the decision to close his accounts.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that the staff had checked the ATM 
and found that it contained a surplus of £200 which could not be accounted for by the 
recorded transactions. He concluded that Mr T must therefore have deposited £200. He did 
not think he should consider the allegations made about the altercation in the branch, as this 
would be better dealt with in court. That was because this Service cannot cross-examine 
witnesses, take evidence on oath, or compel the attendance of witnesses. He said that the 
bank had closed Mr Ts accounts in accordance with the terms and conditions he had 
agreed to when he had opened them.
Mr T accepted that part of his complaint was not suitable for consideration by our Service. 
But he asked for compensation for the inconvenience caused to him by the ATM fault. The 
investigator accepted that Mr T had been inconvenienced, but he did not accept that the 
inconvenience had reached a level that merited the payment of compensation. Mr T did not 
agree, and he asked for an ombudsman to consider his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
In this decision, I am only considering the ATM fault and the decision to close Mr Ts 
accounts. I think I can consider the banks decision to close his accounts without making any 
finding of fact about whether he was racially abusive. That is because under section 17 of 
the banks terms and conditions, first direct may close an account for any reason it likes as 
long as it gives two months notice, which it did give. So I can find that the accounts were 
closed properly without going into the reason why.
Turning to the ATM fault, the bank says Mr T deposited £200. Mr T says it was either £200 
or £300, and he cannot remember which. Both parties versions of events are therefore 
consistent with each other, and so I have no reason to disbelieve the bank: there is no 
evidence to contradict it. But I am reinforced in that conclusion by the fact that the banks 
records show that there was a total cash surplus of £200 on the day that Mr T made his 
deposit. So I am satisfied that Mr T has not lost any money.
Mr T was inconvenienced by having to go into the branch to deal with this problem. He says 
that stressful situations cause him migraines. However, while certainly inconvenient, I dont 
think this situation needed to be stressful, as it would have been an easy matter to sort out. 
I accept that Mr T probably was stressed, because he says he may have sworn at the 
branch staff while he was there, but I think he could have controlled his own reaction to the 
situation. Overall, while having to go into a branch and speak to people about something that 
should have been dealt with automatically by a machine is inconvenient, I dont think it rises 
to the level that warrants financial compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman