DRN-1835400
Complaint
Mr D has complained about the overdraft on his Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) bank account. 
Hes said that he had a gambling problem, between 2013 and 2018, which ought to have 
been apparent from his statements. And in these circumstances, it was unfair to lend to him, 
let alone increase the limit on his overdraft to £5,000.  
Background 
Mr Ds complaint was initially reviewed by one of our investigators. He didnt think that 
Lloyds had done anything wrong or had treated Mr D unfairly. Mr D disagreed with the 
investigator and also said that Lloyds failed to take his deteriorating credit file into account 
either. 
Mr D asked for an ombudsman to consider his case. So the complaint was passed to me for 
review.
My provisional decision of 25 March 2020
On 25 March 2020, I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial findings on Mr Ds 
complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of my 
findings. 
I started out by setting out the regulatory framework and other relevant publications that I 
thought were important to my determination of Mr Ds complaint.  
The regulatory framework
Regulation by the Office of Fair Trading (up to 31 March 2014)
In 2013, which is the start of the period of time Mr D asked us to look at, Lloyds held a 
standard licence from the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), which permitted it to carry out 
consumer credit activities.
Section 25(2) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 set out the factors the OFT had to consider 
when deciding whether to grant a consumer credit licence to a lender. It said:
(1) In determining whether an applicant for a licence is a fit person for the purposes of this 
section the OFT shall have regard to any matters appearing to it to be relevant including 
(amongst other things)
a.the applicant's skills, knowledge and experience in relation to consumer credit 
businesses, consumer hire businesses or ancillary credit businesses;
 
b.such skills, knowledge and experience of other persons who the applicant 
proposes will participate in any business that would be carried on by him under 
the licence;
 c.practices and procedures that the applicant proposes to implement in 
connection with any such business;
 
d.evidence of the kind mentioned in subsection (2A)
 
(2A) That evidence is evidence tending to show that the applicant, or any of the applicant's 
employees, agents or associates (whether past or present) or, where the applicant is a body 
corporate, any person appearing to the OFT to be a controller of the body corporate or an 
associate of any such person, has
a.committed any offence involving fraud or other dishonesty or violence;
 
b.contravened any provision made by or under
 
(i) this Act;
(ii) Part 16 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 so far as it 
relates to the consumer credit jurisdiction under that Part;
(iii) any other enactment regulating the provision of credit to individuals or 
other transactions with individuals;
 
c.contravened any provision in force in an EEA State which corresponds to a 
provision of the kind mentioned in paragraph (b);
 
d.practised discrimination on grounds of sex, colour, race or ethnic or national 
origins in, or in connection with, the carrying on of any business; or
 
e.engaged in business practices appearing to the OFT to be deceitful or 
oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper (whether unlawful or not) [my 
emphasis].
 
Section 25(2B) set out a direct example of the type of practice referred to in Section 
25(2A(e)) and said:
For the purposes of subsection (2A)(e), the business practices which the OFT may consider 
to be deceitful or oppressive or otherwise unfair or improper include practices in the carrying 
on of a consumer credit business that appear to the OFT to involve irresponsible lending 
[my emphasis].
In March 2010, the OFT sought to produce clear guidance on the test for irresponsible 
lending for the purposes of section 25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. And so it issued 
its guidance on irresponsible lending (ILG).
So I consider the ILG to be of central importance in reaching a fair and reasonable outcome 
on Mr Ds complaint.
The foreword to the guidance set out its purpose and it said:The primary purpose in producing this guidance is to provide greater clarity for businesses 
and consumer representatives as to the business practices that the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) considers may constitute irresponsible lending practices for the purposes of section 
25(2B) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It indicates types of deceitful or oppressive or 
otherwise unfair or improper business practices which, if engaged in by a consumer credit 
business, could call into consideration its fitness to hold a consumer credit licence.
Whilst this guidance represents the OFT's view on irresponsible lending, it is not meant to 
represent an exhaustive list of behaviours and practices which might constitute irresponsible 
lending.
Section two of the guidance sets out the general principles of fair business practice. 
Section 2.1 says:
In the OFT's view there are a number of overarching principles of consumer protection and 
fair business practice which apply to all consumer credit lending.
Section 2.2 of the guidance says:
In general terms, creditors should:
not use misleading or oppressive behaviour when advertising, selling, or seeking to 
enforce a credit agreement
 
make a reasonable assessment of whether a borrower can afford to meet 
repayments in a sustainable manner
 
explain the key features of the credit agreement to enable the borrower to make an 
informed choice
 
monitor the borrower's repayment record during the course of the agreement, 
offering assistance where borrowers appear to be experiencing difficulty and treat 
borrowers fairly and with forbearance if they experience difficulties
 
Section 2.3 lists other expectations of lenders. Amongst other things, it says:
In addition to the above there should be:
fair treatment of borrowers. Borrowers should not be targeted with credit products 
that are clearly unsuitable for them, subjected to high pressure selling, aggressive or 
oppressive behaviour or inappropriate coercion, or conduct which is deceitful, 
oppressive, unfair or improper, whether unlawful or not
 
Borrowers who may be particularly vulnerable by virtue of their current indebtedness, poor 
credit history, or by reason of age or health, or disability, or for any other reason, should, in 
particular, not be targeted or exploited.
Section 4 of the guidance is concerned with the assessment of affordability that lenders were 
required to carry out before granting credit. I mention this for reference because as Im not 
looking at Lloyds decisions to provide an overdraft in the first place or increase Mr Ds 
overdraft limit, Im not considering any lending decisions in this case.Section 6 of the ILG sets out other specific irresponsible lending practices relating to lender 
behaviour once credit has been provided. Section 6.2 says it would be an unsatisfactory 
practice where a business is:
Failing to monitor a borrowers repayment record
Section 6.2 goes on to say:
The OFT considers that creditors should take appropriate action, including notifying the 
borrower of the potential risk of an escalating debt, and signposting the borrower to not-for-
profit providers of free independent debt advice, when/if there are signs of apparent/possible 
repayment difficulties  for example, a borrower failing to make minimum required payments 
or making a number of consecutive small/minimum repayments or a borrower seeking to
make repayments on a credit card account using another credit card. This is particularly 
important in the case of borrowers who it is known - or it is reasonably believed - may lack 
the mental capacity to make financial decisions about repayments at the time the 
repayments are due, especially under circumstances in which the borrower or his 
representatives have specifically requested that this should be done.
A symptom of some conditions such as bipolar disorder is that the borrower may engage in 
unusual spending patterns.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Lloyds continued to provide Mr D with his overdraft after regulation of consumer credit 
activities had transferred from the OFT to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 
2014. Lloyds was authorised by the FCA at this time so it was subject to the FCAs rules in 
respect of consumer credit activities from 1 April 2014.
the FCA Principles for Business (PRIN)
 
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised 
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC)
 
This sets out the rules which apply to firms specifically when carrying out credit related 
regulated activities. CONC also replaced the requirements set out in Section 55B. Bearing in 
mind the complaint before me, I think the most relevant sections of CONC here are CONC 1 
which sets out guidance in relation to financial difficulties; CONC 5 which sets out a firms 
obligations in relation to responsible lending; and CONC 6 which sets out a firms obligations 
after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
CONC 1.3G provides guidance on financial difficulty. It says:In CONC (unless otherwise stated in or in relation to a rule), the following matters, among 
others, of which a firm is aware or ought reasonably to be aware, may indicate that 
a customer is in financial difficulties:
1.consecutively failing to meet minimum repayments in relation to a credit card or store 
card;
 
2.adverse accurate entries on a credit file, which are not in dispute;
 
3.outstanding county court judgments for non-payment of debt;
 
4.inability to meet repayments out of disposable income or at all, for example, where 
there is evidence of non-payment of essential bills (such as, utility bills), the customer 
having to borrow further to repay existing debts, or the customer only being able to 
meet repayments of debts by the disposal of assets or security;
 
5.consecutively failing to meet repayments when due;
 
6.agreement to a debt management plan or other debt solution;
 
7.evidence of discussions with a firm (including a not-for-profit debt advice body) with a 
view to entering into a debt management plan or other debt solution or to 
seeking debt counselling
 
CONC 5 sets out the rules and guidance in relation to responsible lending, CONC 6 sets 
out the rules and guidance in relation to Post contractual requirements; and finally CONC 7 
sets out the rules and guidance in relation to Arrears, default and recovery (including 
repossessions).  
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between the OFTs Irresponsible Lending 
Guidance and the rules set out in CONC 5, CONC 6 and CONC 7. As is evident from the 
following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules specifically note and refer back to sections of the 
OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions. For the same reasons that I 
didnt set out the relevant passages of section 4 of the ILG, I dont propose to set out the 
sections in CONC 5 which relate to responsible lending. Instead Ill focus on what I consider 
to be the relevant sections of CONC 6 and CONC 7.  
CONC 6.7.2 R states:
A firm must monitor a customer's repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 of ILG]
CONC 6.7.3 G states:
The action referred to in CONC 6.7.2 R should generally include:(1) notifying the customer of the risk of escalating debt, additional interest or charges and of 
potential financial difficulties; and
[Note: paragraph 6.16 of ILG]
(2) providing contact details for not-for-profit debt advice bodies.
[Note: paragraph 6.2 (box) of ILG]
CONC also provides guidance to lenders about how to deal with consumers in arrears, this 
time making reference to the Office of Fair Trading's Debt Collection Guidance (DCG).
CONC 7.3.2G states: 
When dealing with customers in default or in arrears difficulties a firm should pay due regard 
to its obligations under Principle 6 (Customers interests) to treat its customers fairly.
[Note: paragraphs 7.12 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.4R states that: 
A firm must treat customers in default or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and due 
consideration.
[Note: paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 of ILG and 2.2 of DCG]
CONC 7.3.5G lists some examples of forbearance and due consideration and states:
Examples of treating a customer with forbearance would include the firm doing one or more 
of the following, as may be relevant in the circumstances:
1.considering suspending, reducing, waiving or cancelling any further interest or 
charges (for example, when a customer provides evidence of financial difficulties and 
is unable to meet repayments as they fall due or is only able to make 
token repayments, where in either case the level of debt would continue to rise if 
interest and charges continue to be applied);
 
[Note: paragraph 7.4 (box) of ILG]
2.allowing deferment of payment of arrears:
 
a.where immediate payment of arrears may increase 
the customer's repayments to an unsustainable level; or
 
b.provided that doing so does not make the term for 
the repayments unreasonably excessive;
 
3.accepting token payments for a reasonable period of time in order to allow 
a customer to recover from an unexpected income shock, from a customer who 
demonstrates that meeting the customer's existing debts would mean not being able 
to meet the customer's priority debts or other essential living expenses (such as in 
relation to a mortgage, rent, council tax, food bills and utility bills).
 Other relevant publications
The ILG and CONC set out the regulatory framework that firms carrying out consumer credit 
activities have to adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms.  Im also 
required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice.
Lloyds was a subscriber to the Lending Standard Boards Lending Code and currently 
subscribes to the Standards of Lending Practice which replaced it in July 2016.
The Lending Code 
Section 4 of the Lending Code is concerned with Credit Assessments. It says:
Personal customers 
50. Before lending any money, granting or increasing an overdraft or other borrowing, 
subscribers should assess whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable 
manner. They should do this by considering the potential for the borrowing to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, information from CRAs, including existing financial 
commitments where provided, as well as the following, as appropriate: 
 The type and amount of credit being sought; 
 How the customer has handled their finances in the past; 
 Any known future financial commitments of the customer; 
 Any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have a 
significant financial adverse impact on the customer; 
 Internal credit scoring techniques (if used by the subscriber); 
 The customers declared income; 
 Why the customer wants to borrow the money and for how long; and 
 Any security provided. 
51. Subscribers should take a view on which of the above factors it is appropriate to consider 
in any particular circumstance dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the borrower. 
52. Assessment may also include other checks that have not been listed above. 
53. The requirement to consider information from CRAs does not apply in specialist 
customer segments such as private banking where use of CRA data may not be appropriate. 
54. Where income is one of the factors considered when assessing ability to repay a 
personal loan and the loan is agreed only if the income of another person is taken into 
account, normally the loan should be provided on a joint and several basis. However there 
may be circumstances when it is appropriate to provide a loan on a sole basis. 
55. Subscribers should ensure they are familiar with the requirements of the Code Sponsors 
Guide to Credit Scoring and the explanations that need to be given to customers if credit 
scoring is used. 56. If a lending application is declined following credit assessment, the subscriber should 
explain the main reason why if asked by the customer. If the decline is as a result of 
information obtained from a CRA search, the subscriber should provide the customer with 
contact details for the CRA. 
The Standards of Lending Practice
The standards relating to assessing the affordability of credit are set out in the Product Sale 
section of the Standards of Lending Practice. The relevant section says:
5. Before providing any form of credit, granting or increasing an overdraft or other 
borrowing, Firms should assess, from the information available to the Firm at the time, 
whether the customer will be able to repay it in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulty or experiencing significant adverse consequences. [CONC 5]  
There is also a section on Money Management and paragraph 3 of this section says:
3. Firms should monitor customers credit card and overdraft limits to ensure that the 
customer is not exhibiting signs of financial stress and where relevant, offer appropriate 
support.
Information Lloyds itself provided
Lloyds Personal Banking Terms and Conditions, in September 2013, also had the following 
information. Section 10.3 said: 
Overdrafts are always repayable on demand. This means that we can ask you to repay all 
or part of your overdraft (and any interest or charges) at any time, even if we have agreed a 
period for the overdraft with you. We can also reduce your overdraft limit at any time. If we 
demand repayment or reduce your limit, this will usually be due to a change or anticipated 
change in your personal circumstances. If we can reasonably do so without prejudicing our 
interests, including our regulatory position, we will give you at least 30 days notice before 
making the change. 
And section 10.5 said:
A Planned Overdraft is an overdraft up to a limit that we agree, taking into account your 
personal circumstances, and which you arrange with us in advance so as to increase the 
available funds in your account. We will provide you with the terms of any Planned 
Overdraft, including how long the Planned Overdraft will apply. If we do not specify a period, 
then your Planned Overdraft will continue indefinitely until ended by either of us. We will 
carry out a review of your Planned Overdraft at least once every 12 months.
I than confirmed that having reviewed matters, I thought that the crux of Mr Ds complaint 
was that Lloyds should have stopped lending to him in 2013 because it ought to have 
realised that he was unlikely to be able to sustainably repay what he owed. 
I set out that ordinarily the first question I would consider in an irresponsible lending 
complaint was:
Did Lloyds complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr D 
would be able to repay his overdraft in a sustainable way?
 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr D wouldve been able to do 
so?  
 
But in this case, Mr D hadnt said that Lloyds shouldnt have given him the overdraft in the 
first place. And as far as I could see a limit increase (in the period Ive been asked to look at) 
didnt take place until 2015. But even though Lloyds might not have increased Mr Ds limit 
until 2015, Mr D had, in any event, said that Lloyds should have stopped lending to him 
sooner than this as a result of how his overdraft was being used.
As this was the case, I think that there was one main question that I needed to consider in 
order to fairly and reasonably determine Mr Ds complaint. And depending on the answer to 
that question, there may have been a series of sub-questions for me to consider too.
This main question was:
1. Did Lloyds have an obligation to review Mr Ds use of his overdraft facility?
 
I then set out that should the answer to this question be yes, Id then need to consider a 
series of potential sub-questions. These would be:
oWhen should any review or reviews have taken place?
oWhat should have formed part of any reviews?
oWas Mr D experiencing financial difficulty? 
oDoes any and/or all of this mean that Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to 
have realised that Mr D was more likely than not unable to sustainably repay 
what he owed and so should have stopped lending to him?
 
I started by considering the main question. 
Did Lloyds have an obligation to review Mr Ds use of his overdraft facility?
I started by saying that Lloyds would have been aware that the provisions of the ILG and 
CONC imposed an obligation to monitor Mr Ds repayment record and offer assistance 
where it may have been apparent that he may have been experiencing financial difficulty. 
But leaving aside Lloyds regulatory obligations, I was also satisfied that Lloyds additionally 
committed to reviewing to reviewing the overdraft on Mr Ds current account on an ongoing 
basis. I said this because as I set out in the other key publications section of my provisional 
decision as a subscriber to the Standards of Lending Practice, Lloyds committed to ensuring 
that Mr Ds overdraft usage wasnt suggesting that his finances were under strain. 
Equally Lloyds own correspondence to Mr D said that Mr Ds usage of his overdraft facility 
would be reviewed on an ongoing basis. So it seemed to me that  irrespective of the 
regulators rules - the Standards of Lending Practice and Lloyds own terms and conditions 
confirmed Mr Ds use of his overdraft would be monitored. 
Bearing all of this in mind, I was satisfied that Lloyds ought reasonably to have been 
monitoring and reviewing Mr Ds use of his overdraft facility. And I didnt think that the fact 
that Mr D may not have notified Lloyds about any change in circumstances or financial 
difficulty he may have been experiencing changed this. As I concluded that this was the 
case, I then went out to consider the series of sub-questions that Id set out.
When should Lloyds reviews have taken place? I once again started by reiterating that the rules and regulations in place throughout the 
period Mr D had his overdraft required a lender to monitor a customers repayment record. 
So I thought that it was perfectly fair and reasonable to have expected Lloyds to have 
monitored Mr Ds repayment of his overdraft on an ongoing basis. And also offer assistance 
where it may have been apparent Mr D may have been experiencing difficulty. 
I also pointed out that paragraph 10.5 of the terms and conditions of Mr Ds account, in any 
event, said that his overdraft would be reviewed at least once a year. I also noticed Mr Ds 
statements had overdraft renewal dates on them. And this suggested to me that his overdraft 
was, or at the very least ought to have been, reviewed and/or renewed on an annual basis. 
And this led me to point out that even if I agreed that CONC didnt prescribe precise periods 
for any reviews, I was satisfied that Lloyds itself committed to reviewing and, depending on 
the circumstances, potentially renewing Mr Ds overdraft each year. 
Given the circumstances of this case, I was particularly mindful of the renewal that took 
place in July 2014 as this was the first one to take place after the period of time Mr D said 
that he was experiencing financial difficulty. As such I then went on to consider whether it 
was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to have renewed Mr Ds overdraft in July 2014.  
Bearing in mind all the circumstances, was it fair and reasonable to renew Mr Ds overdraft 
in July 2014?
I started my consideration of this question by saying that Lloyds hadnt provided any details 
about what its review process in general would have involved or what it specifically did in 
relation to Mr Ds account in July 2014. I welcomed any comments or information Lloyds 
could provide in relation to this in its response to my provisional decision.   
I then went on to consider what I thought any review and renewals should fairly and 
reasonably have taken into account bearing in mind Lloyds regulatory obligations and the 
terms and conditions of Mr Ds account.
As a starting point, I thought that any review or renewal of Mr Ds overdraft had to include a 
review of Mr Ds repayment record  in other words it needed to look at how Mr Ds account 
was funded, how often it was in credit etc. 
I thought it also important to note that section 10.3 of Mr Ds account terms and conditions 
stated that his overdraft was repayable on demand. I was also mindful that while Lloyds own 
literature was silent on this matter, it was generally accepted, in the industry, that overdraft 
facilities were only really suitable for (and so only supposed to be used for) occasional or 
emergency borrowing. This message was reinforced in Lloyds notifications of the 2017 
changes to its overdraft pricing structure, which stated that overdrafts are intended to help 
out with short-term borrowing needs. 
And I also thought it was a view shared by the FCA in Consultation Paper 18/42 High-Cost 
Credit Review: Overdrafts consultation paper and policy statement (CP18/42). I did 
acknowledge that this was published sometime after the period I was looking at. But I did 
think that it offered some insight on the FCAs perspective on the use of overdrafts. And so I 
did consider it to be of some relevance in this case. 
 
 
Paragraph 3.35 of CP 18/42 stated:Overdrafts are intended for short-term or emergency borrowing, but some consumers use 
them repeatedly over a long period of time. This repeat overdraft use can harm consumers 
because it can be an expensive way to borrow, and they can build up problem debt over 
time.  
Bearing in mind off all of this, I thought that any review or renewal of Mr Ds overdraft also 
ought fairly and reasonably to have had in mind that the facility was repayable on demand  
in other words, had to be repaid in full should Lloyds request this -, that it was only really 
intended to help out with short-term borrowing needs and the good practice set out in the 
Lending Code. 
I kept all of this in mind when thinking about Mr Ds financial position in July 2014. As Lloyds 
had access to them, I considered it perfectly fair and reasonable to use Mr Ds bank 
statements to form my view on what a fair and reasonable review of whether Mr Ds 
overdraft should have been renewed is more likely than not to have shown. I therefore went 
on do so and also set out what I thought any such review ought fairly and reasonably to have 
uncovered. 
Mr Ds financial position in the period leading up to July 2014 renewal
I started by saying by the time of this review, the FCA had provided clear guidance on 
financial difficulty, which it set out in CONC 1.3.1 G. Id already set this guidance out in full 
and in essence, CONC 1.3.1 G lists a number of factors, which if a firm is aware of, or it 
ought reasonably be aware of, may signify that a borrower is experiencing financial 
difficulties.  
I thought that having carefully looked at the period post the July 2013 review, it was clear 
that a number of the factors set out in CONC 1.3.1 G were present in Mr Ds circumstances.
For starters, I could see that there were a number of returned direct debits on Mr Ds 
statements. Mr D also statements showed that he was taking payday loans from at least 
three different providers, every month for an extended period of time in an attempt to keep 
within his overdraft limit. So while Lloyds may have argued that Mr D wasnt considered to 
be in difficulty because he kept within his limit, it was clear that he was only able to do so 
because he was borrowing from unsustainable sources. 
But what was most concerning of all on Mr Ds statements was the sheer amount of 
gambling transactions that were taking place. On most days there were between ten and 
twenty gambling transactions. And when these were added up, it was clear that Mr D was 
gambling far in excess of his monthly income each month. 
I went on to clarify that I wasnt saying that it was for Lloyds  or any other bank for that 
matter - to tell a consumer how they could and couldnt spend their money. But as Mr D was 
constantly using his overdraft he wasnt spending his own money. He was gambling funds 
that Lloyds was lending to him. And his ability to repay was wholly dependent on his success 
as a gambler. I made this point while especially mindful of the fact that Mr Ds statements, in 
the period between July 2013 and July 2014, didnt ever show him having a credit balance 
on his account either.
In my view, all of this meant that, in July 2014, Lloyds ought reasonably to have realised that 
there was a change in Mr Ds circumstances. And this in turn meant that no reasonable 
decision maker, on these facts, could reasonably conclude that hed be able to repay what 
he owed on demand, or within any sort of reasonable period of time. And on top of this, I 
thought that the sheer number of gambling transactions meant coupled with the increasing 
number of payday loans meant that any further lending was simply unsustainable. I also thought that instead of realising this and taking steps to help Mr D, as per its regulatory 
obligation to provide a customer in financial difficulty with assistance (and what its own terms 
and conditions said an adverse change in his financial circumstances would lead to), Lloyds 
unfairly and unreasonably added a significant amount of overdraft interest, fees and charges 
to his balance. 
This meant that Mr D paid Lloyds high amounts of interest for the privilege of allowing him to 
continue to hold what, in my view, had clearly become an unsustainable debt. And on top of 
this Lloyds even decided to increase Mr Ds overdraft limit to £5,000 despite all of this and its 
responsibility to assess whether any increase in the funds lent could be repaid sustainably.
Taking all of this into account, I reached a finding that Lloyds didnt act fairly and reasonably 
towards Mr D when it renewed his overdraft in July 2014.  
So I explained that I was intending to find that Lloyds didnt act fairly and reasonably towards 
Mr D in relation to his overdraft. I then went on to consider whether Mr D lost out because 
Lloyds hadnt acted fairly and reasonably towards him.
Did Mr D lose out because Lloyds didnt act fairly and reasonably towards him?
I thought that Lloyds ought reasonably to have realised that Mr D was in financial difficulty by 
July 2014 at the latest and at this point Lloyds ought reasonably to have exercised 
forbearance and helped Mr D managed his debt. But instead of doing this Lloyds added 
further overdraft interest, fees and charges to his overdrawn balance. 
So I thought that Mr D lost out because he had to pay, and he was still being expected to 
pay interest and charges that shouldnt have been added to his balance in the first place. 
And so it was my intention to find that Mr D lost out because Lloyds didnt treat him fairly and 
reasonably.
I finally set out a method of putting things right for Mr D, which I found addressed Lloyds 
failings and Mr Ds resulting loss.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr D responded to my provisional decision confirming that he accepted it and that he 
currently had nothing further to add. He said that he reserved hiss right to provide further 
submissions in the event that Lloyds provided further arguments in its response to my 
provisional decision.
Despite being a significant amount of additional time to do so. Lloyds didnt provide anything 
further for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments provided from the outset, including 
Mr Ds response to my provisional decision, in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I remain of the view that the main question and related sub-questions that I 
set out in my provisional decision are what I need to consider in deciding whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These are:
1. Did Lloyds have an obligation to review Mr Ds use of his overdraft facility? If so,
 oWhen should any review or reviews have taken place?
oWhat should have formed part of any reviews?
oWas Mr D experiencing financial difficulty? 
oDoes any and/or all of this mean that Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to 
have realised that Mr D was more likely than not unable to sustainably repay 
what he owed and so should have stopped lending to him?
 
I carefully considered these questions and set out, in some detail, my findings in relation to 
them in my provisional decision of 25 March 2020. Given this is the case, and Ive not been 
provided with anything further at all to consider, Ive not been persuaded to depart from the 
provisional findings I reached on 25 March 2020.
As this is the case, I find that:
Lloyds did have an obligation to monitor Mr Ds use of his overdraft facility;
 
A Review of Mr Ds overdraft facility should have taken place in July 2014;
 
Any fair and reasonable review of Mr Ds overdraft in July 2014 would more likely 
than not have shown that Mr D was in financial difficulty and so the overdraft facility 
shouldnt have been renewed in July 2014.
 
This means that I find that Lloyds didnt act fairly and reasonably towards Mr D in relation to 
his overdraft. As Ive already explained why Mr D lost out because Lloyds didnt act fairly and 
reasonably towards him, Ill now set out what Lloyds needs to do to put things right.    
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having carefully considered everything, I find that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ds complaint for Lloyds to put things right in the following way:
rework Mr Ds current overdraft balance so that all the interest, fees and charges 
applied to it from July 2014 onwards are removed;
 
AND
if an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr D to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. 
It can also backdate a default on Mr Ds credit file to July 2014 should it consider it 
necessary to do so;
 
OR (if the effect of removing all interest fees and charges results in there no longer being an 
outstanding balance)
any extra should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr D. If no outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made then Lloyds should remove 
all adverse information from Mr Ds credit file.
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should put 
things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman