DRN-3699565
The complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank Plc has declined to refund transactions he says he didnt 
make or allow anyone else to make.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr B reported several gambling transactions that took place on his account as 
fraudulent - these were online card payments.
Mr B says he was promised a refund but instead TSB has closed his account.
TSB says that since Mr B opened the account in January 2021 hes raised three fraud claims 
in relation to gambling transactions. It concluded that he did authorise the transactions in 
relation to his most recent claim and issued notice to close his account. TSB accepted there 
had been some customer service failings while dealing with Mr Bs claim and so paid him 
£50 compensation in recognition of this.
When Mr B brought his complaint to our service, the investigator didnt uphold his complaint. 
They thought TSB had declined Mr Bs claim fairly.
Mr B didnt agree, in particular he raised that the gambling account wasnt in his name. So, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. I think TSB has acted fairly and 
reasonably in declining Mr Bs claim for the following reasons:
The payments were made using Mr Bs card information and so were authenticated 
correctly.
There were a significant number of mobile banking logins during the time period the 
disputed transactions took place, but Mr B didnt dispute the payments at the time. I 
find it unlikely that Mr B wouldnt have been aware of the account activity, even if he 
didnt check through the payments on his account, he would have seen a 
substantially different balance on the main page of his banking application than it 
would have been without the disputed payments.
Mr B has disputed payments made using more than one card  theres no 
explanation for how a third party has accessed his card information repeatedly.
Any winnings would have been returned to Mr Bs account and not to a third partys 
account. When credits were made to Mr Bs account from gambling companies he 
hasnt disputed these and there have been no disputed payments to other people 
from his account which suggests there have been no attempts by a third party to 
utilise any winnings beyond further gambling.
The IP address for several of the disputed transactions matches that used for Mr Bs 
mobile banking application usage. This indicates that whoever is making the disputed 
payments is in the same location as Mr B. 
I note one of the gambling accounts is not in Mr Bs name  when asked, Mr B says 
he doesnt recognise this name. However, the above evidence is not consistent with 
the payments being made by an unknown third party. So, I think it was reasonable for 
TSB to conclude that it was more likely than not Mr B who either made the payments 
himself or allowed someone else to make them.
Mr B has not complained about TSBs decision to close his account, but he has raised other 
customer service issues. In particular, being initially told he would receive a refund, poor 
communication, and delays by TSB. Having considered these points, I think the £50 
compensation TSB has paid Mr B is fair and so Im not going to make a further award here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman