DRN-4031220
The complaint
Ms L complains about the actions taken by Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) following a 
claim she made for water damage to her property. RSA voided the policy, declined the claim, 
and kept the premiums paid by Ms L.
Reference to Ms L includes anything said or done by her representative.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Ms L got in touch with RSA about water damage at her property.
RSA looked into the circumstances. It said the property wasnt Ms Ls main 
residence, she wasnt living there, and it wasnt furnished for normal living. It said it 
wouldnt have offered the policy if it had known this. It voided the policy (which 
means treating it as if it never existed) and declined the claim. It also said Ms L has 
acted fraudulently, so it wouldnt refund the premiums she had paid.
Ms L complained about this. RSAs position didnt change.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She wasnt persuaded RSA 
had shown Ms L had acted fraudulently. To put things right, she asked RSA to 
remove any records about potential fraud, to reimburse the premiums paid by Ms L, 
and to pay £100 compensation. RSA and Ms L accepted this.
In relation to the policy voidance, our investigator ultimately thought this point should 
be upheld too. She wasnt satisfied RSA had shown it had asked Ms L questions 
about all of the things it was relying on. And looking at the questions it had asked, 
she didnt think Ms L had failed to provide reasonable answers. To put things right, 
she asked RSA to reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim, subject to the 
remaining terms of the policy. She also asked RSA to pay a further £400 
compensation, making £500 in total.
RSA didnt respond to us about the policy voidance. Ms L said she thought RSA 
should be required to accept the claim  not reconsider it. She also suggested a 
timeframe for the next steps should be imposed on RSA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ls original complaint was about two main points  firstly, that RSA had alleged she had 
acted fraudulently and, secondly, that it had voided the policy and declined the claim.
After our investigator looked into the matter, RSA accepted Ms L hadnt acted fraudulently. It 
agreed to remove any fraud records and pay £100 compensation. So that point isnt in 
dispute any longer and its therefore not necessary for me to comment on it any further. Ill 
focus on the second point as that remains in dispute.
RSA voided the policy because it didnt think Ms L had given accurate information about the 
occupancy of the property when taking out the policy. It said she had agreed the property 
would be her main residence where she and her family would reside on a full-time basis. 
And the house would be occupied and furnished.
However, RSA hasnt been able to show exactly what Ms L was asked during the online sale 
of the policy. Throughout our investigation RSA has said it was unable to show what was 
asked online  or what information was captured online, aside from that shown in the 
statement of fact. More recently its provided a list of questions it says were asked online, 
contradicting what it said before. It hasnt shown these questions were actually what Ms L 
was asked. Nor has it shown what her answers were. And as these questions and answers 
werent displayed on the statement of fact, Ms L was unable to check her answers to these 
questions were reasonable. So Im not persuaded it would be fair for RSA to rely on any 
questions and answers not shown in the statement of fact.
Turning to the questions and answers recorded in the statement of fact, these cover some of 
the points RSA made but not all of them. The relevant ones are:
Is your home left unoccupied for longer than 60 days? Ms L said no.
Is your home solely occupied by you and your family members? Ms L said yes.
RSA has shown that if either question had been answered differently  that is, if it knew the 
property would be left unoccupied for more than 60 days and/or it wouldnt be occupied 
solely by Ms L and her family members  it wouldnt have offered the policy.
The relevant law for this situation is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). It places a duty on the consumer to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. In summary, if Ms L fulfilled that duty, 
RSA can take no action. If she didnt fulfil that duty, CIDRA sets out the remedies available 
to RSA. The onus is on RSA to show that Ms L didnt take reasonable care.
Ms L has provided information about the property and how it was occupied. Ill summarise 
the key points:
Ms L bought the property insured by the policy (which Ill call property A) shortly 
before taking out the policy. She and her husband lived in another property (which Ill 
call property B) in a different city at that time.
Ms L she says her job required her to work around the country. That meant dividing 
her time between the city where property A is, the city where property B is, and 
wherever else her work took her.
After buying property A, Ms L says she and her husband moved into it and took 
furniture with them from property B.
They planned to renovate property A. Whilst the Covid pandemic caused delays to 
that plan, her husband was at the property carrying out some of the work himself and 
organising for contractors to do other parts for a minimum of two days per week. Ms 
L was also at property A for a similar amount of time per week.
This arrangement continued until the water damage, several months later, which 
caused Ms L and her husband to return to property B.Ms L says property A had cooking, cleaning and washing facilities, contents to live 
comfortably, electric, gas and water prior to the recent damage.
RSA has acknowledged that the first question could be interpreted in different ways. It said it 
was unclear whether the reference to 60 days means 60 continuous days or 60 days in a 
year. CIDRA says that when thinking about whether a consumer has taken reasonable care, 
a key consideration is the clarity of the question asked. Here, RSA has accepted the 
question isnt clear. In my view, because the question doesnt refer to a yearly timeframe, its 
more likely to be read as 60 continuous days than 60 days over a year. And, based on what 
Ms L has said about her occupancy of property A  which RSA hasnt challenged  Im not 
satisfied RSA has shown her answer was unreasonable. It appears she and/or her husband 
occupied it at least two days per week, so it wasnt left unoccupied for 60 continuous days.
RSA says that because the property wasnt occupied as much as it should have been, the 
second question wasnt answered reasonably. Firstly, Ive explained above why it was 
occupied to the extent RSA asked about in the statement of fact. And secondly, the focus of 
this question is about who was occupying the property, not how much. RSA hasnt 
suggested that any party other than Ms L or her husband were occupying the property at any 
point. So Im satisfied Ms Ls answer to this question was reasonable.
Because of this, Im overall satisfied that Ms L fulfilled her duty to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when answering these two questions. Under CIDRA, that 
means RSA can take no action. As a result, I think it acted unfairly when it voided the policy.
To put things right, RSA should reinstate the policy. It should then go on to reconsider the 
claim, subject to the remaining terms of the policy.
I know Ms L thinks RSA should accept the claim  not reconsider it. But Im not satisfied it 
would be fair for me to require RSA to accept the claim at this stage. Ill explain why.
In its complaint response, RSA said the voidance meant that there was no cover in force at 
the time of the incident you were claiming for, and as such the claim could not be 
considered. So I think RSA was clear that it declined the claim because it voided the policy 
 and it hadnt considered the claim in its own right at that time. RSA may have its doubts 
about the occupancy of the property and that may be something it wishes to explore when 
considering the claim. Equally, during our investigation, Ms L has said she has further 
evidence about her occupancy of the property that she may be able to provide. So it seems 
to me that both parties should be given the opportunity to discuss the policy cover, share 
relevant information, and consider the claim. For that reason, I dont think it would treat 
either party fairly for me to make a finding about whether the claim should be accepted or 
not at this stage.
Ms L has suggested that RSA should be required to take the next steps in a specific period 
of time, for example 21 days. RSA has an ongoing duty to handle claims promptly and fairly 
and I would expect it to keep that duty in mind when reconsidering this claim. But I dont 
think it would be helpful or practical to set anything more specific in the circumstances. To do 
so may limit Ms Ls opportunity to provide information that may impact the outcome of the 
claim and I dont think that would be beneficial.
As Ms L and RSA will be aware, if a dispute later arises about whether the claim should be 
accepted or not  or, if accepted, what a reasonable settlement is  Ms L will be entitled to 
raise a new complaint with RSA about that. And she may be able to refer it to this Service if 
RSA cant resolve it to her satisfaction.Ms L has faced a significant delay finding out what the outcome of the claim will be as a 
result of RSA unfairly voiding the policy for fraud and misrepresentation. Im satisfied shes 
suffered avoidable distress and inconvenience as a result and it would be fair for RSA to 
compensate her for this. I consider the £400 suggested by the investigator to be reasonable 
in the circumstances. Together with the £100 RSA has already agreed to pay, that makes a 
total of £500 compensation it should pay to put things right.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Limited to:
Remove any records of fraud or policy voidance from any internal or external 
databases.
Reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim subject to the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
Pay a total of £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman