DRN-3252605
The complaint
Mr O has complained that Starling Bank Limited registered a marker against him at CIFAS, 
the national fraud database.
What happened
In late 2019, Mr O sold a phone through an online marketplace. He says the buyer asked to 
pay him via a direct bank transfer rather than through the marketplace. Mr O accepted this 
and received several hundred pounds as a faster payment.
Mr O then transferred this amount to his other account. A couple of hours later, Starling 
received a fraud claim from the buyers bank, saying the buyer had reported this as fraud 
and said they never got the goods. Starling queried the payment with Mr O. A few days later, 
they asked him for evidence such as proof of postage. But Mr O said he couldnt find the 
proof of postage and wasnt sure what he should send. Mr O was a minor at the time.
Starling closed Mr Os account and registered a marker against him at CIFAS.
Some months later, Mr O discovered the marker and complained. He provided our service 
with his messages with the buyer, including a video of him boxing up the phone. Our 
investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O asked for 
an ombudsman to look at things afresh, so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr O and Starling a provisional decision on 15 December 2021, to explain why 
I thought the marker should be removed. In that decision, I said:
I need to consider whether this report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Starling 
needed to have more than just a suspicion or concern. They need to be able to show that 
they had reasonable grounds to believe that fraud or a financial crime had been committed 
or attempted, backed up by evidence which would support it being reported to the 
authorities.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Starling had good reason to be suspicious or 
concerned, and I dont think they acted wholly unreasonably in adding the marker. But I think 
that, especially given the new evidence thats come to light, the marker should now be 
removed. Ill explain my reasons.
Mr O has sent us records of his text conversations with the buyer, including a video of him 
preparing the package to be sent. And his submissions seem to broadly support this being a 
genuine transaction. A later image even shows the package having paid postage labels on it. 
Unfortunately, its too blurry for me to be able to see the relevant tracking details, but it does 
suggest that Mr O at least paid for postage.
As far as Ive seen, this appears to have been an isolated incident  there was not a trend of 
fraud reports, and Mr Os account seems to have otherwise been genuine. Ive looked at his 
other account too, and it looks like he often deposited his money there and used it for his 
everyday spending  so that was not unusual behaviour for him.
Mr O suggested that the buyer may have reported the payment as fraudulent after hed sent 
the phone in order to get their money back  and I cant rule out this possibility. Nor can 
I rule out that the buyer was simply mistaken, or that they were too hasty in reporting things. 
Its worth noting that the buyer reported this payment as fraudulent within just two hours, 
saying they never got the goods. But no matter what kind of postage Mr O used, it would 
have taken at least a day for the package to arrive  and most likely far longer, not least 
given it was in the holiday period. It was simply not possible for the phone to have arrived 
within just two hours or less. This does call the fraud report into question.
I also need to bear in mind that Mr O was only a minor at the time, so it is plausible that he 
was taken in by someones request to make payment off the marketplace platform. Its also 
quite possible for him to have misplaced the proof of postage or to have not thought to keep 
it, and he was only specifically asked for it several days later. Further, Starling did not make 
it clear how important it was that Mr O evidenced his entitlement to funds. They never told 
him about a potential CIFAS marker, and given his young age I can see why he may not 
have realised how important it was for him to explain himself more clearly.
I also accept its possible that Mr O was really trying to defraud the buyer. But ultimately, 
given theres not much substantial evidence either way, this seems to be a bit of a he said, 
she said situation. And I dont think thats a strong enough basis for a CIFAS marker.
So taking everything into account, I currently think the marker should be removed.
Ive also thought about whether Starling should pay compensation to Mr O for what 
happened. But as I said above, I dont think they acted unreasonably overall  they had good 
reason to be suspicious of Mr O, they had a fraud report from another bank, and at that point 
Mr O didnt give them any significant evidence to substantiate his side of the story. He only 
provided the conversation history when the case came to our service. So I dont plan to 
make any further award other than removing the CIFAS marker.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
12 January 2022. Starling didnt send anything substantially new. Mr O made some further 
comments, which Ill talk about below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O explained he was very happy that the marker would be removed, but asked if we could 
reconsider the issue of compensation. He felt that Starling had acted negligently in adding 
the marker, and he reiterated the substantial trouble and upset the marker had caused him.I do understand Mr Os point of view, and I appreciate the wide-ranging effects that the 
marker has had for him. The issue is that I dont think Starling acted negligently or 
particularly unreasonably in adding the marker. Its worth bearing in mind that at the point 
they added it, they had an official fraud report from another bank, they had good reason to 
be concerned, Mr O hadnt provided any significant evidence to back up his side of things, 
and it would have looked like that fraud report was correct. Mr Os most substantial evidence 
 his records of the conversations  were only sent later on to our service; he didnt send 
them to Starling at the time. And its worth bearing in mind that were here to resolve 
complaints, rather than to punish or fine businesses.
So while I see where Mr Os coming from and am grateful for his candid testimony, I dont 
require Starling to pay compensation in this case.
In regard to the CIFAS marker itself, Ive not seen any reason to change the conclusion 
I reached before. So having reconsidered the issue, I still think the marker should be 
removed, for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision above.
Putting things right
I direct Starling Bank Limited to remove the fraud marker in dispute.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint, and direct Starling Bank Limited to remove the fraud marker in 
dispute.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman