DRN-3710246
The complaint
Mrs W is unhappy with the service she received from Santander UK Plcs Financial Support 
team.
What happened
Mrs W agreed a payment plan for her credit card in December 2021. Santander asked that 
she called back after two payments. Mrs W says she forgot to do this due to serious medical 
issues. She continued to make the payments, but as she had not called the bank her 
account reverted to standard terms and charges. 
In May 2022 she spoke to a member of the Financial Support team in order to get the 
payment plan reset. She says she was treated appallingly on the call and the bank made her 
feel like she was using her medical issues as a crutch. She asks for an apology and a 
gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs Ws complaint. She said she had listened to the call and 
thought the advisers approach and questions were fair.
Mrs W strongly disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. She 
said she felt intimidated, the service was unprofessional, the account had been paid - her 
only error was to forget to make the call. She said the advisers tone was accusatory and 
based on untruths as she had made her payments on time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mrs Ws complaint. I will explain why. 
I have listened carefully to the call from 26 May 2022. I can see it was very distressing for 
Mrs W and I am sorry she was so upset by it. 
However, I dont find that the bank was at fault. I think the adviser was trying to better 
understand how Mrs Ws medical issues impacted her at that point in time, and if that had 
changed over time. She needed to do this to make sure any plan put in place going forward 
was appropriate, and she did try to explain that her aim was only to ensure Mrs W got the 
right support. 
Additionally, when it became clear that the questions were upsetting Mrs W the adviser 
apologised that the call was upsetting for her. I dont find the advisers tone to have been 
inappropriate but I do accept the discussion could have felt intrusive for Mrs W. I can see it 
was very difficult for Mrs W to answer the advisers question about how she was impacted by 
her health issues. But I am satisfied the advisers intent was to help, and to try to make sure 
she understood the impact of Mrs Ws condition before setting another payment plan. 
This was because Mrs W had said her medical issues had been unresolved for years, and 
the adviser noted she had broken previous payment arrangements. I think it was therefore 
reasonable to ask the questions she did as the bank has an obligation to understand a 
customers circumstances to ensure any agreement made is responsible and not harmful in 
any way. 
It follows I am not instructing the bank to apologise, or make a gesture of goodwill. This does 
not mean I am saying the call was not upsetting for Mrs W, rather that the bank did not do 
anything to wilfully cause her distress.
I would urge Mrs W to contact the bank to agree a way forward, assuming there remains an 
outstanding balance. And I would remind Santander to treat Mrs W fairly, and with 
forbearance.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman