DRN-3245370
The complaint
Miss C complains that a car acquired with finance from Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2019 Miss C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. At the point of supply the car was around 6 years old and had covered 
around 24,700 miles.
Miss C says that before she purchased the car, the supplying dealer advised her that there 
was a knocking noise which would be repaired. Miss C provided with the purchase but when 
she collected the car from the supplying dealer the knocking noise was still there.
Miss C took the car to her local garage, who advised her to take the car back to the 
supplying dealer.
The supplying dealer carried out repairs to the suspension. Miss C collected the car but 
didnt drive it for around 5 months because she was shielding during the pandemic.
In September 2020 Miss C started to drive the car again and noticed that the knocking noise 
was still there. She contacted the supplying dealer to try and get it repaired, but the 
supplying dealer said that because more than 6 months had passed since the point of 
supply, it wouldnt cover the cost of repairs.
Miss C complained to BMF. It arranged an independent inspection. The inspector identified 
that the engine undertray was missing and that the nearside lower suspension arm unit and 
anti-roll bar link arm had been replaced. The inspector also found that the offside front coil 
spring was loose and that the car made as knocking noise when driven. The inspector 
concluded that the front suspension was noisy but that the fault wasnt likely to have been 
present at the point of supply because it was so loud that it would have been noticeable.
Based on the findings of the report, BMF didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. Miss C remained 
unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought there was a fault present at the point of 
supply and that the supplying dealers attempt at repair had been unsuccessful. The 
investigator said that Miss C should be allowed to reject the car.
BMF didnt agree. It said it had spoken to the supplying dealer, who denied carrying out any 
repairs prior to the point of supply. It told BMF that the first time Miss C had contacted it 
about the knocking noise was March 2020, and that it had carried out repairs in April 2020. 
BMF said that Miss C hadnt contacted the supplying dealer again until September 2020 and 
that the noise she had reported at that time related to a  different part of the car, and felt that 
the repairs carried out by the supplying dealer in April 2020 had been successful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. I would expect a second hand car, such 
as that supplied to Miss C, to have a degree of wear and tear and to require repairs more 
often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be 
satisfied that the car had a fault at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault which developed 
due to wear and tear.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply and its up to the business to 
put things right. The business is allowed one opportunity to repair the car. If the repair isnt 
successful, the consumer can reject the car. After 6 months, the burden of proof is reversed 
and its up to the consumer to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied.
An independent inspection can help determine whether a car is of satisfactory quality. Ive 
looked at the independent report which was undertaken in October 2020. This says that the 
nearside lower suspension arm and anti-roll bar link arm have been replaced. It also says 
that the offside front coil spring was loose and knocking at the top of the mounting block. The 
report also says that there was a heavy metallic knocking noise when the car was driven, 
which the inspector said was coming from the suspension top mounting. The inspector said 
that in his opinion, the suspension mount displacement would constitute an MOT failure and 
concluded that the fault wouldve occurred after that date of the last MOT in November 2019. 
The inspector said he didnt think the current noise would have been present at the point of 
supply because it was so audible.
At around the same time as the car was independently inspected, Miss C also asked her 
local garage to look at the car. Its report says that the knocking noise was caused by the 
same issue that it had diagnosed previously in December 2019, prior to the repairs that were 
carried out by the supplying dealer.
Ive taken both reports into consideration. Based on what Ive seen, Im persuaded that 
theres a fault with the car because this has been identified by both reports. Im also 
persuaded that a fault was present in April 2020, because the supplying dealer carried out 
repairs to the suspension at this time.
Because there was a fault with the suspension which occurred in the first 6 months, theres a 
presumption that it was present at the point of supply. So, I think it was right that the 
supplying dealer carried out repairs in April 2020, because this is what the relevant 
legislation requires it to do.
The real issue here is whether the repairs carried out by the supplying dealer were 
successful. BMF has said that because Miss C didnt report any further issues until 
September 2020, the supplying dealers repairs were successful. However, Miss C has said 
that she didnt drive the car between April and September 2020 because she was shielding.
The mileage of the car at the point of supply was 24,721. I can see that when the car was 
inspected in October 2020, the mileage was 29,082. The supplying dealer didnt record the 
mileage when it carried out repairs in April 2020. So, I cant be certain of whether the car 
was driven in the 5 months between April  September 2020 after the repairs were carried out. Based on the fact that Miss C covered just over 4000 miles in 11 months, Im inclined to 
accept her evidence that she didnt use the car when she was shielding. So, I dont think its 
possible for BMF  to say that the repairs caried out in April 2020 were successful. Miss C 
has been clear about the fact that when she started using the car again in September 2020 
the knocking noise was still there. On balance, it seems more likely than not that the repairs 
werent successful. Under the relevant legislation, Miss C should be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
To put things right, BMF should allow Miss C to reject the car. I wont be asking BMF to 
refund Miss Cs monthly payments because shes been able to use the car, save for the time 
when she was shielding which was her choice. Nor will I be asking BMF to refund the 
deposit allowance, because I can see that this was used to settle ethe finance on Miss Cs 
previous car.
Its clear that Miss C has suffered a degree of distress and inconvenience as a result of being 
supplied with a  car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes had to make the car available 
for inspection more than once and has spent time trying to resolve things. Im asking BMF to 
pay compensation to Miss C to reflect this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss C
Pay £150 to Miss C for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information relating to the agreement from Miss Cs credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman