DRN-2976731
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to open a savings account when 
it should have. As a result, it lost out on interest which would have accrued if the account 
was opened earlier. C wants HSBC to pay the interest it missed out on, and compensation 
for the service it received.
What happened
The following repeats the same complaint background that I stated in my provisional 
decision. I have repeated it here for the purposes of issuing this final decision.
Mr and Mrs B are directors of C, a limited company, and bring this complaint on its behalf. C
held a business current account with HSBC. In late 2019 Mr and Mrs B wanted to open a
savings account to earn interest on a large sum of money which had been loaned to C by a
company based abroad it had an agency relationship with.
Mr and Mr B communicated with HSBC about opening an account. Eventually a fixed
deposit account was opened in mid-December 2019. Interest crystallised on the account in
mid-January 2020 when the one-month fixed period ended. The balance rolled over to
another monthly fixed interest period. C paid part of the account balance to the
current account it also held with HSBC. After the second fixed monthly period expired, the
remaining funds were also paid into Cs HSBC current account. Later in 2020, HSBC
terminated its relationship with C.
Mr and Mrs B say HSBC unnecessarily delayed opening the fixed deposit account. As a
result, they say C missed out on interest that would have accrued on the account had it been
opened earlier. They also say HSBC failed to provide them with the information they needed
prior to C applying for the account.
HSBC offered £500 to make up for the delays and inconvenience that was encountered
trying to open an account. But it said it would not pay redress to represent the interest Mr
and Mrs B believe C lost out on. Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs B brought Cs
complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2022. In summary I found:
It was likely a meeting which took place on 18 November 2019 was to try to open a 
savings account for C. Email correspondence from Mrs B to HSBC concerned 
savings products, and a pressing want to earn interest on the loan. It was less likely 
she intended to only discuss the prospect of getting a relationship manager for C, 
and the purpose of the meeting ought to have been clear to HSBC.
HSBC did not have an obligation to open the account for C when Mr and Mrs B 
wanted, even if the account might have been able to be opened earlier if HSBC had  
provided a better service. This was not a case of HSBC committing to open the 
account on 18 November 2019, C giving a valid payment instruction and HSBC not 
following through on its commitment.
Things can and do go wrong when a customer wants to open an account. Sometimes 
there are delays in the provision of a service due to insufficient resources to meet 
demand or misunderstandings between a bank and its customer. This doesnt always 
mean that because an account could have been agreed earlier, compensation should 
be paid as if it was.
C could have gone elsewhere to earn interest on the sum of money it was loaned. It 
chose to wait until it got the product it wanted from HSBC, rather than go elsewhere. I 
was satisfied it should bear the losses which may have ensued as a result. 
Mr and Mrs B opted for a monthly fixed term period when the account opened, and 
another monthly fixed period automatically applied after the first period ended. I 
hadnt seen evidence to show Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have still closed the account 
after two fixed periods if the account had opened earlier. So, I wasnt persuaded C 
would have benefitted from another months worth of interest crystalizing on the 
account balance before a decision was made to close the account.
Mr and Mrs B may have been caused significant frustration by HSBC not getting 
product information when they wanted and not opening the account for C when they 
wanted. I understood why they were frustrated. But as the directors of C, Mr and Mrs 
B are not the eligible complainants for this complaint. 
Under the dispute resolution rules, which set out our services jurisdiction and 
powers, only C is the eligible complainant in the circumstances of this complaint. So, 
the personal stress and frustration Mr and Mrs B were caused were not losses C 
could experience. The reason for this is C is a limited company and a separate legal 
person to Mr and Mrs B because of the effect of incorporation. So, I didnt award 
compensation to C for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B experienced.
HSBC offered £500 for distress and inconvenience. But I didnt see evidence to 
demonstrate that the personal distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr and 
Mrs B led to a financial loss for which C should be compensated. As a result, I didnt 
make a finding on whether HSBCs offer was fair and reasonable or whether it ought 
to be paid to C. Again, for the reasons I had given, I didnt find HSBC liable for C not 
earning interest on its loan earlier than it did.
C rejected my provisional findings. In summary it said:
Its unrealistic to expect C to have opened an account elsewhere following its receipt 
of the loan on 14 November 2020. It could not have known it wouldnt have received 
the service it expected and that the account would not be opened until later. HSBC 
had already conducted checks in the past, whereas another bank would have 
needed to undertake its own checks before it could open the account(s) C wanted.Its unreasonable to conclude HSBC ought not to pay interest because the account 
would not have remained open for a fixed period in order to earn interest. Mr and Mrs 
B chose how to maintain the account, which included how long it would have 
remained open. To demonstrate this, they were offered better interest rates at 
another bank so from February 2020 they started moving funds to that bank.
My finding that HSBC had no obligation to provide an account when C wanted runs 
contrary to the outcome on another complaint C made about HSBC. Mrs B wants to 
know relevant case law to support my finding and asks why no information in this 
regard is published on our services website.
Mrs B has taken a lot of time dealing with this matter, including dealing with our 
service, so Cs losses are not limited to loss of interest on the HSBC account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened carefully to what Mrs B said in response to my provisional decision and have 
considered the evidence of phones calls which were made to HSBC. I have also re-
considered all the other information I have available, which includes the information Mrs B 
referred to in her letter dated 29 April 2021 which she sent to one of the investigators who 
gave their opinion on Cs complaint. 
I have decided not to uphold Cs complaint for the same reasons I gave in my provisional 
decision. Those reasons are summarised above and form part of this decision. I will now 
address the points Mrs B raised following my provisional decision.
Mrs B has referred to a different complaint C brought to our service against HSBC. In that 
complaint HSBC admitted it made a mistake calculating an offer related to a delay in 
processing Cs payment instructions in relation to the accounts it held. My role is not to 
review the outcome of another complaint. Instead, my role as an ombudsman is to consider 
the complaint before me and to reach a final decision which I find is fair and reasonable.
 
There is, however, a material difference between HSBC not acting on Cs mandate over an 
extant account, to HSBC not providing an account when C wanted it. In the first scenario, 
there is an agreement and terms applicable to the account to which both C and HSBC 
agreed. But in the second scenario no such agreement existed. 
Im satisfied that for an agreement to exist it must be accepted by both HSBC and C. I do not 
find it necessary to refer to case law to support this point as it is quite straight forward. And, 
while I have seen evidence to show C really wanted an account opened by 14 November 
2019 to transfer the loan funds to, I havent seen evidence to show HSBC agreed to provide 
C with an account by that date. So, I am not holding HSBC liable for the interest C says it 
would have earned had the account opened when it wanted.
 
I understand opening a new account elsewhere would have required customer due diligence 
checks by a new account provider, which might mean there were more administrative 
requirements for C to meet before it could obtain an equivalent savings product. But it seems 
clear to me that Mr and Mrs B were dissatisfied with the service they had received from 
HSBC for some time before the actual receipt of the loan funds, so I find they could still have 
explored other options and alternatives. However, my finding still remains that HSBC were 
not obliged to provide an account at a time of Cs choosing.Banks such as HSBC have a wide commercial discretion on whether to provide an account. 
They are not obligated to provide an account to an existing customer, although they cannot 
act unlawfully by refusing to provide an account. And while I take on board what Mrs B has 
said about specific information not being on our external website, my role is not to comment 
on our website content or its utility to her or other persons  my responsibility is only to make 
a final decision on Cs complaint about HSBC. My role is also not to provide information on 
how many complaints our service has answered which are similar to Cs complaint.
I agree that Mr and Mrs B could decide the fixed interest term for the account on it opening 
and each time a fixed period expired. But I am satisfied that even if HSBC were obligated to 
provide the account earlier, this would have been on or after 18 November 2019 when the 
meeting took place. Mr and Mrs B kept the account open for two fixed monthly interest 
periods, so had the account opened on or shortly after this date, Im not persuaded they 
wouldnt still have chosen to close the account once two monthly fixed periods passed.
Mrs B has provided call records which show six calls were made to HSBC on Cs behalf 
between 9 October 2019 to 15 November 2019. While I understand time may have been 
taken away from carrying out other responsibilities on behalf of C to make the phone calls, I 
dont find the time spent on the phone to HSBC is substantive enough to warrant 
compensation. Its not unusual for a customer to experience some inconvenience when 
trying to obtain a product or product information. And this may be particularly so when a firm 
is experiencing high demand for its services. Neither is it uncommon for a firms customer 
service provision to fall below the standard a customer expects. This doesnt always mean 
compensation is always warranted when that happens. 
Mrs B says the compensation owed to C is not limited to its dealings with HSBC. I presume 
this means she feels our service should also compensate C or her. But her dissatisfaction 
with the amount of time and expense she might have incurred pursuing this complaint with 
our service, is not something I can fairly consider against HSBC, so I have not considered 
this point when deciding this complaint. 
For the reasons I have given, I have decided not to uphold Cs complaint. So, I am not 
directing HSBC to pay C compensation.
My final decision
I have decided to not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision on behalf of C before 22 February 2022.
 
Liam KingOmbudsman