DRN-3447039
The complaint
Ms S is unhappy that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) didnt action her account
withdrawal request in a timely manner.
What happened
Ms S holds an account with NS&I which is marketed by NS&I as being an easy access
account. In November 2020, Ms S wanted to withdraw a significant amount of money from
her account. Ms S contacted NS&I by telephone but was unable to answer the security
questions to allow her request to be actioned. Ms S therefore provided a withdrawal
instruction to NS&I online.
The withdrawal request was flagged by NS&I for further security checks. However, these
checks werent completed until late December 2020  approximately 22 working days after
the withdrawal request was received by NS&I  and Ms S didnt receive her money until the
first week of January 2021. Ms S wasnt happy about this, especially as the delay had
caused her to miss out on the opportunity to buy a house overseas that shed already
incurred costs on. So, she made a complaint.
NS&I looked at Ms Ss complaint. They felt that the withdrawal had been legitimately flagged
for further security checks, and also noted that a combination of high work volumes and low
staff numbers as a result of the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic meant that it hadnt been
possible to process the request faster. Because of this, NS&I didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Ms S wasnt satisfied with NS&Is response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They agreed that it had been fair for NS&I
to have flagged the withdrawal request for further security checks, and they felt that NS&Is
explanation of why those security checks had taken so long was reasonable. However, they
did feel that Ms S had incurred a degree of trouble and inconvenience because of what had
happened and so recommended that NS&I pay £75 compensation to Ms S because of this.
Ms S remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 5 April 2022 as follows:
Im aware that Ms S is unhappy with what she feels was NS&I incorrectly recording 
the answers to her telephone security questions meaning that she unable to answer 
them to NS&Is satisfaction when asked. I can appreciate Ms Ss frustrations in this 
regard, but I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably find against NS&I here and I feel 
that it was reasonable for NS&I to have not actioned the withdrawal request that Ms 
S wanted to make when she spoke with them on the telephone.
In circumstances such as this, financial institutions such as NS&I have processes in 
place to enable their customers to verify themselves via other means and to reset the 
security question answers - and I can see that this process was initiated. However, 
given that Ms S then successfully provided the withdrawal request online, Im 
satisfied that there wasnt an unreasonable delay in regard to Ms S progressing her 
withdrawal request as she wanted to.
Im also satisfied that having received the withdrawal request it was reasonable for 
NS&I to have flagged that request for further security checks before transferring the 
money. One reason I say this is because like all financial institutions, NS&I have a 
responsibility to protect their customers money and ensure that requests such as 
withdrawal requests are only actioned to legitimate recipient accounts.
However, I dont feel that the amount of time that it took for NS&I to complete the 
additional security checks  approximately 22 working days  is reasonable in this 
instance. I note NS&Is explanation that they had a high volume of requests whilst 
having low staff numbers as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, but I feel its 
important to note that these events took place in late 2020, several months after the 
pandemic started. As such, I feel that it was incumbent on NS&I to have had 
contingency plans for staff shortages in place at that time, and I dont feel its fair that 
Ms S should be asked to bear the consequences of NS&I being unable to process 
her withdrawal request in a reasonable timeframe in these circumstances.
Ms S has explained that she instructed the withdrawal to facilitate the purchase a 
house overseas. Ms S has provided invoices for travel and hotel expenses, as well 
as an invoice for a survey completed on her instruction on the house. Ms S feels 
NS&I should reimburse these costs to her  given that the purchase of the house fell 
through on 15 December 2020, at which time the withdrawal funds that Ms S had 
requested over two weeks earlier hadnt been received from NS&I into her account.
I can appreciate Ms Ss position here, and I feel that its reasonable for Ms S to have 
acted on the basis that shed be able to withdraw money from an easy access 
account such as she held with NS&I within a two-week timeframe so as to have been 
able to complete the purchase of the house as she intended.
Because of this I do feel that NS&I should reimburse to Ms S the cost of the survey  
which amounted to 423.50 Euros  as I feel that the cost of this survey was a loss 
that Ms S incurred as a result of not being able to progress with the house purchase, 
which Im satisfied was itself a result of her not receiving the withdrawal funds that 
she requested from NS&I within a reasonable amount of time.
However, I dont feel that I can fairly ask NS&I to reimburse the cost of the flights and 
hotel as Ms S would like here. This is because Ms S was still able to use the flights 
and the hotel booking if she wanted to, even though I acknowledge that the option to 
complete the house purchase during that trip wasnt available to Mrs S as she  
ntended.
As such, my provisional decision here is that I will be upholding this complaint in Ms 
Ss favour and that I will be instructing NS&I to make a payment to Mrs S equivalent 
to 423.50 Euros in order to reimburse to Ms S the cost of the survey on the overseas 
property which I feel she was unable to purchase because of the unreasonable delay 
in completing the security checks on her withdrawal request by NS&I.Additionally, my provisional decision will also include that NS&I must make an 
additional compensation payment of £300 to Ms S, which I feel more fairly 
compensates Mrs S for the trouble and upset that shes incurred here. In arriving at 
this figure Ive considered the considerable stress and frustration that Ms S has 
confirmed to this service that she experienced as the date by which she had to 
provide a deposit on the overseas property in order to retain an interest in it 
approached, and then passed.
Ms S has also referenced lost interest on the withdrawal balance. But given that Ms 
S intended to use this money to fund a property purchase, I dont feel that she would 
have retained the money in order to have benefited from any interest on it, and as 
such I remain satisfied that the reimbursement and payment of compensation 
referred to above represents a fair resolution here.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Ms S and NS&I the opportunity to provide any 
comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a final 
decision. NS&I confirmed that they were happy to accept my provisional decision, whereas 
Ms S did provide some further points for me to consider.
Ms S asked me to consider the context of the circumstances surrounding the complaint in 
more detail, including that she felt from the poor standard of service that she was receiving 
that NS&I might collapse and that she might lose the entirety of her money held with them. I 
can appreciate how Ms S might have worried about her savings, but its a feature of NS&I 
that its backed by HM Treasury and as such provides a guarantee that 100% of its 
customers money is protected.
Ms S also explained that she felt that NS&I were being deliberately obstructive regarding her 
withdrawal request. Ive seen no evidence of this, although as explained in my provisional 
decision letter I do feel that it was reasonable for Ms S to have expected to receive her 
withdrawal funds sooner than she did.
Ms S has also questioned the viability and practicality of NS&Is security questions, and 
believes that it isnt reasonable for NS&I to expect customers to remember information such 
as is required by NS&I in order to pass the security screening. Again, I can appreciate Ms 
Ss position here, but it isnt within the remit of this service to instruct NS&I to change their 
processes in this regard. Additionally, as explained in my provisional decision letter, Im 
satisfied that Ms S was able to provide an effective withdrawal request via an online channel 
such that her being unable to pass the verbal security questions had minimal effect.
Finally, in regard to the reimbursement of the survey fee as instructed in my provisional 
decision, Ms S notes that exchange rates have moved against her since that time, and asks 
that this instruction be that NS&I reimburse to her the GBP cost that she paid for the survey 
at that time, rather that the cost in Euros converted to GBP using todays exchange rates. 
Ms S notes that this would equate to a reimbursement of £385, rather than £353. Ms Ss 
request here seems reasonable to me, and NS&I have confirmed that theyre happy to 
accept this point also. 
All of which means that, having considered the further points that Ms S has raised, it remains 
my position that a fair resolution to this complaint is that NS&I should reimburse to Ms S the 
original GBP cost of the survey as well as make a compensation payment to Ms S of £300. I 
acknowledge that Ms S feels that a greater degree of compensation should be instructed in 
this instance because of the worry that she felt at that time, but having considered Ms Ss 
position, I continue to feel that £300 is a fair award of compensation in this instance. As such, I can confirm that my final decision will be that I am upholding this complaint in Ms 
Ss favour on that basis.
Putting things right
NS&I must make a payment of £385 to Ms S to reimburse to her the cost of the survey as 
explained above.
NS&I must also make a further payment of £300 to Ms S to compensate her for the trouble 
and upset this matter has caused. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Savings and Investments on 
the basis explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman