DRN-3026302
The complaint
Mr C and Ms H complain that a holiday product was misrepresented to them. Because their 
purchase was funded by a loan provided by Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, they say 
that it is liable under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in the same way as the 
seller. They also say that the circumstances created an unfair relationship under section 
140A of the same Act. Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trades as Barclays Partner 
Finance and I shall refer to it as BPF. Mr C and Ms H are represented by a claims 
management business, which I shall refer to as T.  
What happened
In June 2010 Mr C and Ms H bought a points-based holiday membership from a company, 
C. The purchase was financed by a loan provided by BPF and arranged by C. 
Mr C and Ms H say, through T, that they were misled about the nature of the product they 
were buying. In particular, the extent of actual property rights was not made clear to them. 
They have also said that a number of other matters were not explained or that they were 
misled about them. Those matters include the management fees and availability of 
accommodation. They also say that they were pressured into buying the product, that they 
were led to believe it was an investment and that their ability to pay was not discussed or 
properly assessed. 
On behalf of Mr C and Ms H, T complained about these issues in or about April 2018. BPF 
did not accept that it was liable to Mr C and Ms H. It said that any claim they might have had 
against the seller of the club membership had expired under the Limitation Act 2010.  
T referred the complaint to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She said that BPFs decision not to look into the claims arising from the sale was 
fair. That was because those claims were more than likely to be time-barred under the 
Limitation Act. The relevant time limit was six years from the date of the contract in respect 
of the misrepresentation claim. In respect of any claim for relief under sections 140A and 
140B of the Consumer Credit Act, it was six years from the date on which the finance 
agreement ended. That had happened in April 2011.     
T did not accept the investigators initial view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint about the credit assessment
Our own rules say that we cannot generally consider a complaint unless it is referred to us 
within six years of the event complained of or, if later, within three years of the date on which 
the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, that they had cause for 
complaint. I can disregard that time limit if any failure to comply with it is the result of 
exceptional circumstances.    
The event complained of in this case is the credit assessment that BPF carried out (or did 
not carry out) in or about June 2010. If Mr C and Ms H were having difficulty making 
payments, I think they would most likely have known that within six years. And I note in any 
event that the loan was repaid fairly soon after it was taken out. So I think this part of the 
complaint should have been referred to the ombudsman by no later than June 2016. 
Because it was not, we have no power to consider it.     
Section 75
One effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that a customer who has a claim 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation against a supplier can, subject to certain 
conditions, bring that claim against a lender. Those conditions include:
that the lending financed the contract giving rise to the claim; and 
that the lending was provided under pre-existing arrangements or in contemplation of 
future arrangements between the lender and the supplier. 
I am satisfied that those conditions  and the relevant financial limits  apply in this case. I 
have therefore considered the claims against C. 
Misrepresentation 
Under the Limitation Act an action (that is, court action) based on misrepresentation cannot 
generally be brought after six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. A 
misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of fact which is untrue and which 
induces someone into a contract. T has set out in some detail the various statements made 
to Mr C and Ms H which led them to agree to buy the holiday product. They were all made 
on or before 1 June 2010, so that is the date on which any cause of action accrued. 
No claim was made until Ts letter to BPF of 27 April 2018, nearly eight years later. I think it 
very likely therefore that a court would conclude that any claim was made outside the time 
limit in the Limitation Act. It follows in my view that it was reasonable for BPF to say that it 
would not consider the misrepresentation claims under section 75. 
Section 104A claims
Under section 104A and section 104B of the Consumer Credit Act a court has the power to 
consider whether a credit agreement creates an unfair relationship and, if it does, to make 
appropriate orders in respect of it. Those orders can include imposing different terms on the 
parties and refunding payments. 
Where a claim under sections 104A and 104B includes a claim for repayment of money paid 
under the credit agreement  as is the case here  the usual limitation period is six years 
from the end of the agreement. In this case the credit agreement came to an end in April 
2011, so it is likely that a court would conclude that an action brought under section 140A 
would be out of time. Again, BPFs response was therefore fair and reasonable. I note that T has argued that the usual time limits do not apply where the action is based on 
fraud or concealment. In such cases, the limit runs from the date on which the fraud or 
concealment is discovered or could with reasonable diligence have been discovered. I am 
not persuaded however that the allegations here (even if true) do amount to allegations of 
fraud or mistake  rather than misrepresentation. I do note however that, if that is the 
allegation, there is no explanation of when or in what circumstances Mr C and Ms H 
discovered the fraud or concealment. In the circumstances, I do not believe that BPFs 
response was unreasonable.       
Conclusions 
I stress that it is not for me to decide whether Mr C and Ms H have a claim against the seller. 
Nor is it for me to decide whether any such claim might be outside the relevant time limits in 
the Limitation Act. Rather, I must consider BPFs response to the complaints made on their 
behalf. 
In my view the complaint about the credit assessment was brought outside our own time 
limits and I have no power to consider it. 
I also believe that BPF acted reasonably in concluding that the section 75 claims and the 
section 104A claims were likely to be out of time under the relevant provisions of the 
Limitation Act.   
My final decision
For these reasons my provisional decision is that I do not require Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to take any further steps to resolve Mr C and Ms Hs complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 February 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman