DRN-4069653
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited, (GE) unfairly rejected 
their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). Mr and Mrs B are represented by 
firm of solicitors, which I will refer to as S.
What happened
In May 2004 Mr and Mrs B bought a timeshare from a timeshare supplier I will call C. It cost 
some £17,654 and this was funded by a loan taken from GE which was paid off in May 2005.
In August 2020 S made a claim against GE on behalf of Mr and Mrs B for problems they said 
they had encountered with the timeshare. S set out a lengthy list of issues, but for the 
purposes of brevity I will summarise as follows:
The products were misrepresented.
They were told if they upgraded for more points, they would be able to book from a 
larger flexible choice of holidays, quality accommodation and be able to book during 
peak times. This was not true.
They were told it was an investment and would increase in value. This was false.
They were told they could sell it back to C, but this proved to be false.
They found it difficult to book holidays as there was very limited availability.
The accommodation was available to book on holiday websites much cheaper than 
the cost of the maintenance fees.
They incurred additional expense in transferring to another company which offered 
greater availability.
They say proper credit checks were not carried out ad they were charged high 
interest rates which led them to finding alternative finance.
Within a couple of months purchasing and becoming a part owner in a property, Mr 
and Mrs B were required to change the deeds to add their children and purchase 
more points to cover the cost of the changes.
Your clients believe they were subject constant misinformation and false 
representations. These included information about the duration of the regulated credit 
agreements and the perpetuity clauses.
They believe that the products that were not suitable for their needs and they were 
not given adequate time to consider the terms of the agreement.
GE responded to the claim but said it had been brought too late under the provisions set out 
in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also said it did not consider the claims fell within the remit 
of section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974.
S brought a complaint to this service and argued that the timeshare was misrepresented by 
C for much the same reasons they had set out in the claim to GE. S referenced legal 
decisions regarding the making of loans.
It also argued that the timeshare agreement was null and void due to the impact of an EU 
Directive regarding floating weeks timeshares. S said the terms of the contract were unfair 
under consumer law. It argued that this meant the loan was also null and void.
Furthermore, it said that a proper affordability assessment had not been undertaken and it 
referred to the processes of another bank, presumably in error.
It concluded there was no time limitation issue as the agreement was null and void. It said 
that under s 140A Consumer Credit Act 1974 there was an unfair relationship.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but concluded that GE had acted fairly in 
turning down the claim.
He thought that there were two potential claims Mr and Mrs B could have made under s.75 
and s.140A CCA, but both claims had been brought too late under the provisions in the LA. 
S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
Under the rules that govern how I assess complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice, when I make my decision.
I also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
So although I have read everything that has been supplied to me, I may not address every 
point that has been raised.
Having considered everything, I think there are several claims that Mr and Mrs B are making 
to GE. I will consider each in turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr and Mrs B said that C misrepresented the nature of the membership to them when they 
bought it. However, under s.9 LA, Mr and Mrs B C had to make that claim within six years of 
when they entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in April 2004  
because that is when they say they lost out having relied on false statement of fact.
As they first made a claim to GE in or around August 2020, that fell outside of the time limit 
set out in the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I have to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA Mr and Mrs B had to make their claim within six years of when the loan ended  
which was in May 2005 But as the claim was made in or around August 2020, it was made outside of the time limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. I have considered 
the facts of this complaint and I do not think the lime limits I have set out above can be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
S argues that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond May 2004 
and, as the loan from GE had been used to fund the timeshare purchase, time for the 
purposes of the LA did not start to run until the relationship had been brought to an end.
I am satisfied s.9 LA applies to this claim, not s.8 LA, as Mr and Mrs B are making a claim 
for sums recoverable by statute
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mr and 
Mrs B repaid the loan in full, the agreement between him and GE ended. As it was only the 
relationship between Mr and Mrs B and GE that could be found unfair, limitation started to 
run when the credit agreement ended. I gather Mr and Mrs B took out other loans with GE, 
but I do not consider that extends the time set out in the LA.
Is the loan agreement voidable?
S argues that the timeshare agreement was null and void, which meant the related GE loan 
was voidable and Mr and Mrs B now wish to exercise their right to rescind it. If the timeshare 
agreement was voidable, I think it is likely that the related loan was also voidable on the 
recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This is something that could be considered 
under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I have already explained, I think that claim 
was brought too late. But it could also be a freestanding claim in its own right, so I have 
considered it separately.
S has asked me to consider an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a Spanish court 
judgment. They say that, taken together, they demonstrate that, a timeshare that provides 
for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, is a voidable 
agreement. I have considered this argument. But I do not agree Mr and Mrs Bs timeshare 
agreement is voidable.
S has not supplied a copy of the timeshare agreement but my understanding is that typically 
such contracts state that it they are governed by English law, not Spanish law, so I do not 
think the Spanish judgment can be applied directly to the question as to whether the contract 
is voidable under English law.
S has not asked me to consider any specific part of the relevant EU Directive or any other 
provision (in English or European law) that would point to Mr and Mrs Bs timeshare being 
voidable. Having read all of the relevant legislation, rules and regulations, I cannot see 
anything that would have the effect Mr and Mrs Bs representative seeks. In fact, in the 
recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by 
UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points based timeshare were basic 
timeshare models that were not described as being a problem in and of itself.
Further, these types of agreements fall within the definition of a timeshare contained within 
the Timeshare Regulations 2010. Based on the evidence I have seen, I do not think either
the timeshare agreement nor the related credit agreement is voidable for the reasons said.GEs decision to lend
Mr and Mrs B say GE didnt carry out a credit check although it did request details of their 
employment and income. they were not asked for any information about their income and 
expenditure
I am not able to consider a complaint about GEs decision to lend to Mr and Mrs B in April 
2004. This service doesnt have jurisdiction to consider complaints about the affordability of 
point of sale loans taken out prior to the change in regulation on 6 April 2007. As such it 
would not be appropriate for me to comment further.
GE responded to say that it had further information which it had failed to disclose. It said 
there had been four loans all made by GE Money Consumer Lending Limited. These had 
been taken out in November 2003, April 2004, April 2005 and November 2005. It went on to 
say that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited is no longer regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), as of the 6 December 2019. As such Mr and Mrs B have lost the 
right to refer her complaint to this service. It also noted that Mr B had not signed our 
complaint form. This has since been rectified.
I issued a second provisional decision as follows:
This service doesnt have a free hand to investigate every complaint thats referred to us. 
Our rules (the DISP rules set out in the FCA Handbook) determine (amongst other things) 
who can bring a complaint to us and what types of activities we can consider complaints 
about. In particular, the DISP rules say we can only consider a complaint about acts or 
omissions by a firm that falls within our jurisdiction.
Originally we thought that the loan was made by another GE company which was within our 
jurisdiction. However I am satisfied that the loan(s) were made by GE Money Consumer 
Lending Limited which wasnt regulated at the relevant time. Financial businesses have a 
duty to consider claims under the FCA Handbook (PRIN 6 and CONC 7.5.3) and assessing 
a claim is carried on as part of or in connection to the regulated activity of exercising a 
creditors rights and duties. And Im satisfied the regulated activity that Mr and Mrs B 
complains about in their section 75 complaint is GE Moneys assessment of the section 75 
claim.
I can see that she brought the section 75 claim to GE in August 2020. GE responded on 12 
October 2020, rejecting the claim. And, unhappy with that response, S referred the matter to 
our service in October 2020. Im satisfied that GE therefore considered and responded to the 
section 75 claim made by Mr and Mrs B in 2020. This was some time after GE Money 
ceased to be regulated FCA (it resigned in December 2019). And Im satisfied that means 
the relevant regulated activity - of considering the section 75 claim - took place after GE had 
left our jurisdiction. It follows, that this service is unable to consider the complaint raised by 
Mr and Mrs B about the section 75 claim.
S responded to say that their clients did not accept the decision, but provided no arguments 
or reasoning in support of that position.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any reason as to why I should alter my provisional decision I have 
concluded it should stand.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is Im unable to consider the complaint made by 
Mr and Mrs B that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited unfairly rejected their section 75 
claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman