DRN-2215069
The complaint
Ms L and Mr M complain that Accord Mortgages Limited acted unfairly and unreasonably 
when dealing with their remortgage of a buy to let property, and transfer of equity. They want 
matters put right.
What happened
Ms L and Mr M wanted to remortgage a consumer buy to let property and transfer the equity. 
They applied through a broker to Accord for a product which included free conveyancing for 
the remortgage, and a law firm was appointed to act on Ms L and Mr Ms behalf. 
Ms L and Mr M felt that the law firm was not fit for purpose, and tried to use invalid 
redemption statements from the previous lender and incorrectly claimed that Accord required 
an indemnity policy was put in place. The process took about five months and the December 
2019 completion date was cancelled by Ms L and Mr M due to concerns about overcharging 
by the law firm. The application completed in January 2020.
Ms L and Mr M complained to Accord. It apologised and accepted that poor service had 
been given by the law firm. Accord noted that the law firm had also apologised for its failures 
and offered compensation (including financial loss for extra interest payments), and Accord 
paid £450 compensation. But it said it was the customers choice to cancel the completion 
date and didnt accept that it was responsible for extra costs and delays Ms L and Mr M said 
theyd suffered.
Ms L and Mr M complained to us. The investigators view was that the compensation offered 
by Accord was fair and reasonable. He said that the law firm had been acting on 
Ms L and Mr Ms behalf when it acted poorly and Accord wasnt responsible for the law firms 
actions in that case. The investigator noted Accord had paid £450 and said if it hadnt, he 
wouldnt have recommended any compensation to be paid by it.
Ms L and Mr M disagreed. They accepted that much of the delay related to the transfer of 
equity but said that the remortgage couldnt have been completed without it. They added that 
there was about a week of delay in January 2020 when completion didnt happen as Accord 
hadnt sent confirmation that it didnt need the indemnity policy. The investigator said £450 
compensation was more than would be awarded for about a weeks delay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service cant deal with complaints against law firms. From reading all the evidence 
available to me, its clear that Ms L and Mr M blame the law firm for much of what went 
wrong, but say as Accord introduced them to the firm, its to blame. That isnt correct. Accord 
is a lender; the law firm is a professional independent law firm. Its the role of the broker to 
explain the product to Ms L and Mr M, including the requirement to use the solicitor 
introduced by Accord. 
Accord isnt responsible for the actions of the law firm when it was acting on behalf of 
Ms L and Mr M, only when it was actually dealing with the mortgage itself; this excludes the 
vast majority of the work done by the law firm such as getting a redemption figure, the 
indemnity policy and the transfer of equity. The fact that the surrounding work had to be 
done to complete the remortgage as planned isnt enough to change the position that the law 
firm was undertaking this work for Ms L and Mr M.
Accord has accepted that the law firm in its view gave poor service and paid £450 
compensation. Having reviewed the evidence, I dont think Accord itself didnt act unfairly or 
unreasonably and it was Ms L and Mr Ms choice to apply for a product (as advised by the 
broker) with free conveyancing. The acts of which Ms L and Mr M complain of by the law firm 
happened when it was acting on their behalf, not Accords. I considered the point about the 
short delay in January 2020, but I dont think its unfair or unreasonable for a lender to take 
time to confirm that it didnt need something not required under the mortgage offer. In any 
event, the compensation for such a failing if found would not be close to £450 given that 
most of the trouble and upset described all relates to the actions of the law firm. As I havent 
found Accord has acted unfairly or unreasonably, the compensation paid is more than fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 8 December 2020.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman