DRN-2842836
The complaint
Mr C complains Forsakringsaktiebolaget Agria (publ) (Agria) renewed two pet insurance 
policies without his consent. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr C took out two pet insurance policies by phone.
Agria automatically renewed both polices in 2019 and 2020. They said Mr C had agreed to 
setting up the automatic renewal process during the 2018 sales call, and as they didnt hear 
from Mr C requesting to cancel them, both policies renewed. 
Mr C raised a complaint about this. Agria said Mr C had cancelled the policies in 2020 during 
the 14-day cooling-off period, so they cancelled both policies and provided Mr C with a full 
refund for the 2020 premium. 
Agria didnt agree to refund the 2019 premium Mr C paid. They said Mr C had agreed to 
setting up the automatic renewal process during the 2018 sales call, and they had sent 
renewal documentation to him three weeks prior to the policies renewing. 
Mr C didnt think this was fair. He said hed contacted Agria in 2019 to cancel the policies, 
but Agria said they had no record of this. They held a call recording of a call he made in 
2019 to ask about the benefits of cover, but they said he didnt request to cancel the policies 
during this call. They maintained he agreed to the automatic renewal process in 2018, and 
they had sent him renewal documents by post in 2019, and by e-mail in 2020. So, they didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr C didnt agree with this. He said he didnt receive any communication from Agria about 
the policies renewing in 2019 or 2020. He said as he didnt authorise the renewals, Agria 
should refund the premiums. As no resolution could be met, Mr C brought a complaint to this 
service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. He wasnt 
persuaded by the information available that Mr C had contacted Agria to cancel the policies 
in 2019. He didnt think Agria acted unfairly by automatically renewing the policies as Mr C 
had agreed to this in 2018. And, on balance, he felt it was more likely than not that Agria 
sent the renewal documentation to Mr C in 2019 and 2020. 
Mr C didnt agree and said Agria failed to communicate with him about the renewals. He 
thinks Agria should have done more to ensure he received the renewal documentation. He 
also maintained hed cancelled the policies in 2019. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to decide the case, so its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Agria provided Mr C with a full refund of premiums for the 2020 renewal. And so, I dont 
need to go onto consider this aspect of the complaint further. What remains in dispute is 
whether Agria acted unfairly by not refunding the 2019 premiums Mr C paid.
To start, I listened to the 2018 sales call. During this call, Agria and Mr C discussed the 
automatic renewal process. Mr C agreed to set this up if hes given the option to consider 
cancelling them before they renew. Agria explained they would write to Mr C before the 
renewal date, and the automatic renewal process was put in place as agreed then. 
Having listened to this call, Im satisfied the automatic renewal process was made clear and 
agreed to by Mr C. So, Ill now go onto refer to the policy wording which says: 
26. If we hold valid payment details for you and we offer to renew your policy it will 
automatically renew. You accept that we will use the payment details you have 
previously given us to continue to take payment(s) from your bank account or 
credit/debit card. If you do not want your policy to automatically renew you must tell 
us. 
To give some balance to this dispute, Mr C said hed contacted Agria by phone in 2019 to 
cancel the policies. Mr C said hes no evidence of the call but remembers discussing his 
view of the limitations on the cover he held, as well as cancelling them. 
Agria provided us with calls and said they had searched on their system the three phone 
numbers Mr C said he may have used to make the call. 
Agria provided a copy of a call which took place in 2019. Ive listened to the call and, during 
this, Mr C asked whether cover was in place for a potential claim. He also said it didnt 
appear his pets were covered for much under the policies, and Agrias agent provided 
examples of the benefits of cover. On balance, this appears to be the call Mr C was referring 
to when he said hed also requested to cancel the policies. But, whilst Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr C, having listened to call, Ive found no evidence of him requesting to cancel the policies 
in 2019. And so, I dont find that Agria failed to carry out his instructions to cancel the 
policies. 
Agria said they wrote to Mr C in October 2019 with renewal documentation. Mr C said he 
didnt receive a copy of these documents and argued Agria should have done more to 
ensure hed received these and was prepared to go ahead with another year of cover. 
Ive looked at the documents from 2019, and I can see the address at the header of the 
letters matches the address we hold on file for Mr C, and the address he provided during the 
2018 sales call. So, Im satisfied there was no error with Mr Cs address. 
Within these documents for both policies  Agria says they sent to Mr C  they explain the 
policy would automatically renew in line with Mr Cs payment instructions. These instructions 
were agreed with Mr C during the 2018 sales call where the automatic renewal process was 
discussed and set up. 
Mr C argued he didnt receive these documents and therefore didnt consent to the policies 
renewing. Even in a scenario where he didnt receive these documents, that would be the 
responsibility of the third-party postal service and not Agria. I make this finding because 
Agria have also sent us system screenshots to show these documents were generated. So, 
whilst Im sorry to hear Mr C didnt receive these, Im satisfied these were sent when they 
should have been  and to the correct address. In addition, Im satisfied Mr C was aware the policies would automatically renew, from the 
2018 sales call and the policy wording. So, even in the above scenario where he didnt 
receive any renewal documents, I find it more likely than not he was sufficiently aware of the 
renewal process and it seems reasonable to assume hed have made an effort to contact 
Agria to make enquiries  as Ive seen he did in 2019. But theres no supporting evidence he 
requested to cancel the policies. 
Therefore, having considered all the information available to me, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ive seen that Mr C agreed for the policies to automatically renew, the 2019 
documents were generated, and Ive seen nothing currently that persuades me Mr C had 
requested to cancel the policies in 2019. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C. Whilst I dont doubt his 
testimony that he didnt receive the renewal documents, Im satisfied they were sent by Agria 
and I wouldnt expect them to do anything more here  given I also think the automatic 
renewal process was made clear to him in 2018. 
So, my decision ends what we  in attempting to resolve his dispute with Agria  can do for 
him. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman