DRN-3362027
The complaint
Mr M has complained about how his motor insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a claim 
made by him when he was hit by another driver. He was also unhappy about the decision 
AXA made about him being liable for the accident.
What happened
Mr M had an accident in July 2019 on a roundabout. He said it was the other drivers fault 
and AXA initially took Mr Ms word that was the case. But the other driver disputed liability. 
AXA accepted Mr M was at fault and told him so. Mr M wasnt happy about that. He also felt 
it had been difficult for him to contact AXA. He recalls being offered £200 compensation for 
the communication issue and that AXA said it would review its liability decision. AXA then 
sent Mr M a final response on 22 November 2019 stating it had answered his concerns. 
In 2020 Mr M found, what he has referred to, as a 100% fault claim on his record. He 
contacted AXA and told it, as he recalled it, that during a call in November 2019, AXA had 
said this would be recorded as a 50% liability against him. But he was unhappy about how 
AXA had come to that decision, and that it was now showing as 100% anyway. 
In June 2021 AXA said that it had told Mr M in 2019 that this was being settled on a 100% 
fault basis. It didnt think it had done anything wrong in reaching that decision. Mr M 
complained to us. Our investigator explained he felt we couldnt look at the decision AXA 
had made about liability because Mr M had complained more than six months after the 
November 2019 final response letter. He said we could only look at whether or not it had 
handled things reasonably in order to make a liability decision.
In respect of how AXA handled the liability decision our investigator noted that Mr M and the 
other driver had provided similar accounts of the accident, but the other party included a little 
more detail. He noted that the other partys account had caused AXA to accept Mr M was 
liable for the accident and didnt think it had done anything wrong by not reverting back to 
Mr M first when that account was received.
Mr M said AXA had never given him a written final response on the liability issue  and that it 
had been closer to the end of November 2019 (so after the date of the final response) when 
hed spoken to someone in the claims team who had told him the claim had been recorded 
as 50% liability. He said if hed known then that this had been settled on the basis of full 
liability he would have challenged AXA further. In respect of how he would have challenged 
AXA he said that the lane markings on the roundabout hadnt been clear, hed made some 
judgement calls about which lane to take and when to change, and the other driver, 
regardless, had driven straight into him. He felt that, above all else, showed the other driver 
hadnt been paying attention and so should have been found at fault. And if AXA had given 
him a chance he could have explained all of this, but AXA had failed to ask him for more 
detail when the other driver had raised their initial dispute.
Mr Ms complaint was passed to me to decide. I felt I could consider AXAs liability position 
and explained why. AXA didnt object to this. But I also explained why I felt its decision had 
been fair and reasonable. I added that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. AXA didnt 
object. Mr M said he was unhappy with my findings.
Mr M said AXA had not had sufficient information to determine liability as it hadnt got in 
touch with him for his full account as it had been duty bound to do. And hed missed the 
opportunity to discuss this with his legal experts as available under his legal expenses cover.
Mr M went on to explain further his views on the incident and shared with us what he said 
hed been told by an expert advanced driving instructor. He maintained that the other driver 
was not driving with due care and attention, which was the only applicable legal requirement 
on either of them, because the road lane markings werent enforceable.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
I can consider liability
Im satisfied I can look at this issue. Ill explain why here and set out my findings on the 
merits of the liability issue below. AXA can, of course, in reply to this decision, object to my 
considering the merits if it wishes. And Ill review what it says. But, to manage Mr Ms 
expectations at this stage though  I dont think AXA did anything wrong in settling liability in 
the way that it did. As I said, Ill explain that below (in my section titled Liability).
The details AXA has sent us bear out what Mr M has told us. He said he had a conversation 
with AXA where it accepted there had been a communication issue and that it would refer 
his concern about the liability decision. AXA sent us a copy of an internal email which was 
sent following this call with Mr M. This supports Mr Ms recollection of what had been agreed 
and shows the liability issue was to be reviewed. No further review or response on the 
liability issue came from AXA. So Im satisfied that the final response letter, dated the same 
day as Mr Ms call and the internal email, was sent in respect of the communication issue. 
Its possible the final response was intended to address both the communication and liability 
issue. But as AXAs response on the liability issue was to agree to review it, that wasnt 
really, in my view, based on the correspondence Ive seen, a final position. And I dont see 
that between November 2019 and Mr Ms further complaint in late 2020 that AXA did 
complete a review. However, following Mr Ms complaint in 2020, AXA sent a final response 
in June 2021 which said it felt it had made the correct liability decision. Within four months of 
this final response letter Mr M complained to this service. Im satisfied that AXAs decision on 
liability is something I can consider.
Liability 
As I mentioned above though, I dont think AXAs decision was wrong. And whilst I know that 
Mr M thinks it might have been different if it had referred back to him, I dont think that is 
reasonably likely to be the case.  
Id remind the parties that it is not my job to determine the liability issue itself. But rather to 
decide, given all of the available evidence, whether the insurer reached a reasonable 
decision. Here Mr M had given AXA his account of things, and the other driver then put their 
side to AXA. But, when the other driver did this, details were given about what the correct 
road positioning for the drivers was thought to have been. AXA accepted the argument in respect of road positioning, and I note that Mr M also accepts that he was acting out of line 
with the road markings. I can understand why AXA felt this meant Mr M had been entirely at 
fault for the accident.
I appreciate that Mr M feels that if AXA had spoken to him, his view would have made a 
difference. But from what Mr M has said I dont think that is likely to be the case. Mr M has 
explained that he was acting under his best judgement when entering and using the 
roundabout. I dont dispute that. But even he accepts that his judgement wasnt made in line 
with what the markings on the road said he should do. And when an insurer considers claims 
from other drivers they always need to think about the claim in light of what will likely happen 
if the matter proceeds to court. Its only if the insurer has good prospects of entirely 
defending its driver  ie showing its driver was not at fault at all for the accident  that this 
service might expect an insurer to risk court action. And Im not persuaded that in a situation 
where one driver has acted in defiance of road markings, albeit with forethought and good 
intent, that a court would be most likely to find that that driver was in no way responsible for 
the accident. Where the prospects for success arent good, all an insurer can reasonably do 
is settle the claim as best they can. I think that is what AXA did here.
So Im not persuaded that if AXA had reverted to Mr M for more detail following receipt of the 
other drivers challenge, that AXA would likely have changed its position on liability. A 
position which I think, given all the circumstances, was a reasonable one. 
50% or 100% liability
Mr M says he spoke with AXA in late November and was told this claim had been settled on 
the basis of 50% liability. Im not sure what was said during this call. I think its possible that 
some misunderstanding occurred  perhaps that the AXA adviser said the best outcome that 
could have been achieved might have been 50%. Although if the AXA advisor did give Mr M 
incorrect information that clearly shouldnt have happened. But, if it did, I dont think it had 
any material impact to the position Mr M was in. As I explained above, I dont think Mr M, 
even had he known the claim had been settled based on him being entirely at fault, would 
have been able to do anything to change that.  
Id add that the central claim database kept by the insurance industry doesnt show the 
percentage of liability accepted. So the record wouldnt show 50% or 100% liability for Mr M. 
It would never have shown, even if shared liability had been accepted, that Mr M was only 
partly liable. It would only show that he had been at fault. Which Im satisfied AXA had 
reasonably determined he was. And the fact of a fault claim will likely have an impact on the 
premium the policyholder will find they are charged when taking out new cover or renewing 
the existing policy. 
Summary
I appreciate that Mr M is frustrated with AXA. And I think it could have been clearer with him 
after it agreed to review its liability decision in November 2019. But that wouldnt have 
avoided the position Mr M found himself in when looking for new cover in 2020. And I think 
Mr Ms overriding grievance with AXA was that it had found him at fault at all. I dont think its 
decision, in that respect though, was unreasonable. 
I understand that Mr M feels strongly about this, that he believes he was not at fault at all. 
But I think its fair to say that the other driver likely has similar feelings based on their 
interpretation of what happened. And Mr M has explained that there was no correct lane for 
either party to be in, or enforceable lane requirements, such that it was up to each driver to 
merely drive with due care and attention. Accepting that is the case for a moment, that means that, at court, the account of each driver would be paramount to any finding made. 
And just as Mr M feels strongly that he was not at fault, so quite likely does the other driver. 
The issue of fault would come down to a judgement call and, from an objective perspective, 
I can see that a clear cut, 100% finding of fault in Mr Ms favour might not be achievable. 
And I explained provisionally that, without prospects being good for a successful outcome 
like this, AXA was entitled to settle matters. 
Ideally AXA should have spoken to Mr M to let him know what was happening before liability 
was accepted and the settlement paid. But it has no overriding duty to do so because the 
policy allows it to take control of the claim and settle it. And it did share its settlement 
decision with Mr M. Given what Ive found, the fact that it didnt contact Mr M before that 
decision was made, didnt negatively affect the situation. I appreciate that Mr M might have 
felt it beneficial to receive legal advice. Although I dont know if his situation in general terms 
is something the legal expenses cover would look to assist with, I do note the cover would 
only apply where there are good prospects for success. As Ive said, Im satisfied that AXA 
settled the liability aspect fairly and reasonably because the prospects for a successful 
outcome  100% in favour of Mr M  were not good. So I cant see that Mr Ms position was 
prejudiced regarding the legal expenses cover where that same standard applied and had 
not been met. As such, Im not persuaded that, if Mr M had taken legal advice, his liability 
position would have been any different.  
Having reviewed my provisional findings and Mr Ms response to them, my view on his 
complaint has not changed. My provisional findings now form part of the findings of this, my 
final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against AXA insurance UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman