The complaint
Ms C, who is represented by Mr F, complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited (VFS) sold her or let her buy a car in excess of the market value.
What happened
In October 2014 Ms C acquired a car which was funded by a hire purchase agreement with 
VFS and an advance payment of £500. It cost £25,409 including extras and had 24 miles on 
the clock. In November 2017 Ms C bought the car from VFS and in February Mr F made a 
complaint that the car had been overpriced. He said the car had only been worth between 
£16,000 and £18,000.
VFS referred the matter to the dealer and explained it wasnt responsible for the pricing of 
the car. It also said that it believed the price to be fair. Mr F brought Ms Cs complaint to this 
service where it was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. 
Our investigator explained that the only matter to be considered was the matter of pricing 
and not the previous complaint made about the car which had been dealt with by this 
service. She said there had been no evidence supplied to suggest the car had been 
overpriced and she noted VFS had provided evidence that the price was in line with the 
market value.
She said Ms C had willingly entered into an agreement with the dealer and she could see no 
basis which would allow her to conclude that VFS had done anything wrong. Nor did she 
think it inappropriate for VFS to have referred the matter to the dealer.
Mr F didnt agree and added additional grounds of appeal. He said the car had been mis-
described as regards its suitability for driving in London. Our investigator explained this 
wasnt part of the original complaint and would have to be referred to VFS first, before we 
could consider it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr F is disappointed with the car which his wife bought, which I gather he 
drives. However, the only issue for me to consider is whether VFS can be held responsible 
for the pricing of the car. The previous complaint has been settled and the latest issue raised 
by Mr F regarding the cars suitability to be driven in London needs to be referred to VFS first 
if he wishes to pursue that.
DRN-1572946Ms C, as the purchaser of the car, entered into an agreement with the dealer as to the price 
and the terms and conditions of the purchase. VFS was not party to that agreement. It is 
separate from the dealer and its role was to provide the finance Ms C sought. It was satisfied 
that Ms C met its criteria for lending and agreed to her request to enter into a hire purchase 
agreement. It had no role in setting or agreeing the price. As such I cannot see how it can be 
held responsible for the alleged over pricing of the car.
Furthermore, I have not seen any persuasive evidence that the car was over priced. VFS 
has supplied the guide price for the time of sale and it would appear that a fair price was 
charged. However, while that may be the case I would reiterate the pricing was not an issue 
over which VFS had any control. Thus I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman