DRN-1999556
The complaint
Mr P, as administrator of the estate of Mrs P, complains that ReAssure Limited didnt 
sufficiently inform Mrs P during her lifetime that if she died before taking her pension her 
estate would only receive a refund of contributions plus interest, rather than the value of the 
fund, which was significantly higher. Mr P, who was Mrs Ps husband, and is represented by 
his children, says that if she had been properly informed, she wouldve taken steps to obtain 
the value of the policy. He wants the Estate of Mrs P to be paid that value. 
What happened
In 1978 Mrs P took out a pension policy with Provider G. The selected retirement date under 
the policy was age 70. 
Sometime later ReAssure took over Provider Gs obligations under the policy. I will refer to 
ReAssure from now on, even if it concerns actions of Provider G. 
In early 2019 Mrs P sadly died after an accident. At the time of death Mrs P was 68 years old 
and had not yet taken her pension. Mrs Ps family notified Reassure of her death. A few 
weeks later ReAssure sent information about what information was needed to pay out the 
policy. It said the current claim value for the policy was just under £54,000. 
Mrs Ps son queried this value with ReAssure, indicating that Mrs P had received a fund 
value in 2018 of over £167,000 for the policy. ReAssure explained that the value it had 
provided after Mrs Ps death was calculated based on the return of contributions plus 5% 
interest. Mr P didnt think this was fair, so complained. 
ReAssure responded in writing, indicating that it didnt uphold the complaint. It explained that 
the policy provided for a guaranteed level of pension at the retirement date. It said that the 
death benefit entitlement detailed in the terms and conditions of the policy had been 
correctly calculated. ReAssure said that that if it were to pay the incorrect entitlement from 
the policy it would be detrimental to other policy holders. 
Mrs Ps children brought the complaint to our service, as representatives for their father who 
was the administrator of the Estate of Mrs P. They said that their mother hadnt been in good 
health in the decade before her death, and that if shed had any idea what would happen at 
her death, she wouldve taken the transfer value. It said ReAssure hadnt dealt with their 
repeated comments that it hadnt treated their mother in line with the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (the FCA) Treating Customers Fairly principles which among other things 
required businesses to:
Pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate information 
to them in a way that is fair, clear and not misleading. 
Keep consumers appropriately informed before, during and after the point of sale. 
The full transfer value of the pension was sought, along with requiring ReAssure to improve 
processes and communications.
 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought that the communications from 
ReAssure had met the regulatory requirement FCA to be fair, clear and not misleading. In 
our investigators opinion ReAssure had also complied with the obligation that enough 
information is provided and in a way thats likely to be understood by an average member of 
the group to whom it is directed. He thought the communications ReAssure sent in 2014 and 
2017 were sufficiently clear and detailed as to what would happen if Mrs P died before taking 
her pension.
Mrs Ps son didnt agree with our investigators view. In a lengthy call with our investigator he 
said, in summary:
ReAssures documents werent up to modern standards. The information concerning 
what happens if Mrs P dies before taking her pension shouldve been in the annual 
statement.
ReAssure complied with the letter, not the spirit of the regulatory requirements. It did 
the bare minimum. 
A pension age of 70 wasnt appropriate, when the state pension age was much 
lower.
The standards ReAssure are held to are very low, this area needs to be looked at by 
the FCA.
In the era of pension freedoms, the value of the pension pot is the most important 
information as most people will take the cash 
During the call, our investigator responded to the issues raised by Mr Ps son. He said that it 
wouldnt be fair to hold ReAssure to a higher standard that that set by the regulator. And he 
thought the information provided by ReAssure made an average person sufficiently aware 
that they wouldnt receive the full cash value if they were to pass away before taking their 
pension. He was considering documents provided to him by both parties, so it was fair for 
him to rely on it. Not every communication needed to include a cash value, as that wasnt the 
aim of the policy  that was to provide a pension at retirement age. 
So he thought Mrs P had enough information to make her aware that there was a decision 
she needed to consider making. Our investigator said that if all the information on all the 
options had been provided along with the regulatory information required in every 
communication, he didnt think it would it be reasonable for any individual to be expected to 
read through all the information. And he said ReAssure still must meet the same regulatory 
standards as all other providers.
 
The complaint then came to me for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive listened very carefully to the call between our investigator and Mr Ps son, in which 
he discussed why he wanted a decision from an ombudsman. I completely understand that 
he wishes to do his best for his parents, and Im sorry for the whole familys loss. But Im 
afraid Im not going to uphold the complaint, for reasons I explain below.
As I understand it, it isnt disputed that the death benefit value that ReAssure provided after 
Mrs Ps sad death was calculated in line with the contract in that it was a return of 
contributions paid by Mrs P plus interest. This seems to me to be correct. Clause 4(ii) of the 
Policy Schedule deals with death before the pension date. It provides that the executors or 
administrators should be paid the contributions plus interest compounding yearly at 5%. The essence of the complaint is that the impact of dying before the selected retirement date 
wasnt communicated to Mrs P clearly enough, and it shouldve been. Given the much higher 
value of the pension pot, Mrs Ps family says if shed been aware that only a refund of 
contributions plus interest would be paid to her Estate, she wouldve taken steps to transfer 
the cash value of the policy to get the full benefit for herself and her husband. 
Ive looked at the information provided to Mrs P about her policy benefits by ReAssure. Ive 
concentrated on the ReAssure documents that Mrs Ps family provided to us, as both parties 
have seen those documents. 
Mrs P seems to have been sent an Annual Statement and a Bonus Statement each year. It 
was the Annual Statement that showed the value of her pension pot. The Bonus statement 
showed how much the pension she would receive each year had increased and the estimate 
of the pension that would be payable at the retirement date. 
In May 2014 ReAssure sent Mrs P her 2013 Bonus Statement for her policy. This showed 
that as at the end of 2013 Mrs P would receive a yearly pension of nearly £11,900 at her 
selected retirement age of 70. The Bonus Statement was 3 pages in length. In a box at the 
end of page 3, with a heading in bold and in a larger size than the preceding headings 
ReAssure said:
Information that you and your dependants need to know should you die
before you retire
If you die before you retire, irrespective of the date of retirement shown in your policy or
the state pension age, the benefits payable will be limited to a refund of premiums paid,
plus interest if that's shown in your policy provisions. The fund value is not payable on
death before retirement. If you're concerned about the amount your policy might pay out
you should speak to your financial adviser. Your lump sum death benefits will be tested
against your lifetime allowance.
Among other things the Bonus Statement also said:
The pension could be started from age 55. 
If the pension was taken earlier than the selected retirement date it would be 
reduced.
There may be a final bonus.
And in April 2017 ReAssure sent the 2016 Bonus statement. In the middle of the fourth and 
final page, with a bold heading the same size as others on the page it said:
What is payable on my death before I take my pension savings?
If you die before taking your pension savings from this policy, the lump sum payable will
be limited to a refund of contributions, plus interest if that's shown in your policy. The
fund value is not payable on death. If you're concerned about the amount your policy
might pay out you should speak to your financial adviser.
In my view these paragraphs make it reasonably clear what would happen if Mrs P dies 
before she retires. It specifically mentions that the fund value isnt payable on death and 
refers to seeking financial advice. I think the communications meet the FCA regulatory 
requirement to be fair, clear and not misleading. And I also think that this information was 
enough to comply with the principle requiring the provision of information after the point of 
sale. 
Mrs Ps son thinks that the information about what happens if Mrs P dies before she retires 
shouldve been in the Annual Statement, and not another document, in this case the Bonus 
Statement. He said that it was the Annual Statement that provided the fund value, and the link shouldve been made there, on the front page. I understand why he says this, but I cant 
say that there was any obligation for ReAssure to do so. 
As our investigator said, providing full and complete information on all options in the Annual 
Statement would make a very lengthy document, which might have the opposite effect, and 
make it less likely that individuals will read it.
Mrs Ps son also said that in the era of pension freedoms, the cash value of a policy was the 
most important thing, and most people would take the cash. Im not sure he is right about 
that. Taking the value as cash whether all at once or by drawdown over time is only one 
option. It wouldnt be right of ReAssure or any other provider to give that option more 
prominence. Furthermore, there might be good reasons as to why an individual would 
choose not to convert such a policy to its cash value before the anticipated retirement date  
the most notable being the expected addition of a full terminal bonus at that date.
So for the reasons I set out above, Im not going to tell ReAssure that it must pay the value 
of the fund to Mrs Ps Estate.
I understand that Mrs Ps family are concerned that the selected retirement age under the 
policy was 70 and are concerned that Mrs P was encouraged to take out this policy at a time 
when the state pension retirement age for women was 60. Im unable to deal with that in this 
complaint, as ReAssure have informed Mr P that it was a financial adviser who 
recommended that Mrs P take out the policy, not ReAssure or its predecessors. Any 
complaints that Mr P has about the suitability of the policy, including the chosen retirement 
date, would have to be made to that adviser.
Mrs Ps family also want me to tell ReAssure that it must change its processes and 
communications. Im not persuaded that it is necessary, but even if I was, I dont have the 
power to do so. My role is to resolve individual complaints, Im not able to tell businesses to 
change their processes more broadly. Mrs Ps family can contact the FCA if they believe 
wider action is needed, but that wont impact on the resolution of this complaint. 
My final decision
Although I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mrs Ps family, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Helen Wheatley
Ombudsman