DRN-2601116
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a term assurance policy that 
they didnt need as they had cover through their employment.
What happened
In 1983, Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage protection plan. They recall that this was sold to 
them by a predecessor business of Santander alongside their mortgage. 
They paid a monthly premium of £3.71. The last premium they paid for the plan was in 
November 2007.
 
In 2020, they complained to Santander about the sale of the plan. They had initially believed 
it had provided them with a form of mortgage payment protection insurance. However, 
Santander had no record of Mr and Mrs N holding this type of cover. Instead it appeared that 
the plan had provided Mr and Mrs N with life cover to protect their mortgage borrowing. Mr 
and Mrs N said that they both had benefits from their employment which the business would 
have been aware of and so didnt need the cover provided by the plan. They wanted a 
refund of the premiums they had paid. 
However, Santander could find no information relating to the plan or Mr and Mrs Ns 
mortgage. It said it wasnt required to keep customer records indefinitely and there were 
strict guidelines to ensure these were kept no longer than was necessary. It said that it could 
only investigate the sale of a policy with the evidence available and, as it did not have any 
details of the mortgage or policy, it was unable to investigate the complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said he didnt think there was enough evidence to say that the policy had been mis-sold to 
Mr and Mrs N. He said that any life cover Mr and Mrs N received through their employment 
wasnt guaranteed to be in place through their mortgage term  it may not have been 
provided if they had changed jobs, for example. The investigator said that there was very 
little information that remained from the time Mr and Mrs N started their plan, and there 
wasnt enough to say that Santander had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept the investigators findings. They said were very young with no life 
or financial experience at the time the policy was sold to them. They said this was done 
proactively and coercively. Mr and Mrs N felt the plan was superfluous and wasnt something 
they actively sought so they believe it was mis-sold. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I find Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator for much the 
same reason. 
Because of the passage of time since the plan was started, and since it ended, there is 
understandably very little information still available about it to show the cover it gave Mr and 
Mrs N. However, theyve told us that it was recommended by an adviser alongside their 
mortgage, which they recall was for an amount of around £18,000, initially over 25 years.
 
I appreciate what Mr and Mrs N have told us about the benefits they received at the time 
from their respective employers, and that they feel that the plan was something that they 
didnt need. But, as the investigator has said, benefits provided by an employer may change 
over time or with a change of employer, so may not necessarily give protection to repay a 
joint mortgage commitment over its term should either Mr and Mrs N have passed away.
Taking everything into account, I havent seen sufficient information to conclude that 
Santander sold Mr and Mrs N a mortgage protection plan that wasnt appropriate for them.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2021.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman