DRN-2033595
The complaint
Mrs E says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy sold alongside a credit card Mrs E took out in 1999. 
Although Lloyds couldnt say how the PPI was sold, Mrs E says she made her application 
during a meeting in one of the banks branches or possibly over the phone. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mrs E disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
Briefly summarising her biggest concerns, Mrs E mainly says that:
she was unaware of taking out PPI despite the box for this being ticked on her credit 
card application form  she says that mightve been done by someone else 
if shed been given a choice she wouldve declined PPI
she didn't want or need PPI as she had other ways to pay her credit card if she 
wasnt able to work 
she wasnt given information about what the policy would cost
she had other cards without PPI and has never taken out insurance for any financial 
product with the same company
Lloyds has paid her compensation for mis-selling PPI three times
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
However it was sold, I dont know what was said about the PPI. But Ive seen enough to 
make me think Lloyds made Mrs E aware that the PPI was optional and she chose to take it. 
I say this because the application form Mrs E completed made it clear that it was up to Mrs E 
to say if she wanted PPI. There were Yes and No PPI options. So Mrs E wouldve known it 
was up to her to say if she wanted PPI. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs E said about the way the information was put on the 
application form. But I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me to say that someone 
else ticked the form to say Mrs E wanted PPI without her knowing about it or agreeing to it, 
just based on what Mrs E says. 
There was an option on the credit card application form to say Mrs E didnt want the PPI 
which she couldve filled in. This part of the form is blank  and as far as I can see it hasnt 
ever been filled in. 
On the other hand, theres a tick in the Yes box for PPI. 
Where Mrs E signed the form at the end it says: Sign it only if you want to be legally 
bound So I think its reasonable to expect that Mrs E wouldve looked carefully over the 
completed application before signing to make sure it reflected her wishes  especially if 
someone else had filled in parts of the form for her. 
I can understand why Mrs E has forgotten now as this was a long time ago. 
I have to look at all the available information and decide what I think most likely  making 
reasonable assumptions where I need to. What Mrs E says about the way she was sold the 
PPI isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint.
On balance, I think Mrs E wouldve known at the time that it was up to her to choose if she 
wanted to protect her repayments - and she signed the completed form confirming that she 
wanted to do this. 
As Lloyds wasnt sure how it sold the PPI to Mrs E, in fairness to her it treated this as an 
advised sale  so, as if it had personally recommended PPI to her. I think thats the fairest 
way to look at this complaint as it imposes an extra obligation on Lloyds - giving Mrs Es 
complaint the best chance of success. So I've looked at it this way too. 
This means Lloyds not only shouldve given Mrs E important policy information in a clear 
way. It also shouldve taken reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommended was 
suitable for her. And if Lloyds didn't do those things, Ive thought about whether this makes 
any overall difference.  
Ive checked the policy document that was in use when Mrs E took out this PPI. It looks to 
me as if the policy was suitable for Mrs E based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time. 
Mrs E was eligible for the PPI.
She had good sick pay entitlement through work  she mentioned shed have got 6 months' 
full sick pay followed by half pay for 6 months from her employer. And Mrs E also told us 
about having some savings. 
The policy wouldve paid more than her minimum credit card repayments for up to 
12 months per claim in the event of accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. As 
Mrs E mightve also had some additional costs if she was too unwell to go back to work, or 
disabled, I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time, especially as she 
wouldve been on significantly reduced pay after the first 6 months off work.And the policy wouldve also protected Mrs Es credit card repayments if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy. And if Mrs E had claimed successfully for 
12 months in a row, the policy would've cleared her card balance. 
Relying on someone else to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
Although Mrs E was eligible for death in service benefit from her employer, and she also had 
some other insurance set up which shed taken out following a presentation at work, PPI 
provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different circumstances to both of these. 
And whilst she had a secure job, and some means she could have relied on if she couldnt 
work, this does not mean that PPI was unsuitable for her needs. Even if the possibility of 
being made redundant seemed unlikely, there could be no guarantee that her job would 
remain secure indefinitely. 
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs E if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances. 
Mrs E also mentioned having savings. But Ive seen no specific information about exactly 
how much she had saved up or how accessible that money was, or whether it was 
earmarked for some other purpose. And I dont know if Mrs E wouldve always had savings 
to rely on if she was unable to work. 
Shes also mentioned taking out a number of loans  so that suggests to me that Mrs E 
possibly didnt always have a lot of spare cash. Or alternatively, that she preferred to borrow 
in order to keep some money safely set aside, perhaps to provide her with financial security 
or to spend on other things. 
PPI wouldve helped Mrs E protect any savings as she wouldnt have had to rely on these to 
pay her credit card. So this information isnt enough to make me think this is a complaint 
I should uphold.  
Overall, I think PPI was worthwhile for Mrs E. It gave her useful protection, taking into 
account what shes told us about her situation when she took out this PPI, and I find that the 
policy was suitable for her.
I accept that its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what the policy would 
cost, or what it might pay out if Mrs E made a claim. But Mrs E chose to take out the policy 
when she didnt have to. So she seems to have wanted this type of cover. The cost was 
shown on her monthly statements and Mrs E couldve queried this or cancelled the policy at 
any time if her circumstances changed and she no longer wanted to pay for it. 
The policy didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if that wouldve affected Mrs E. 
So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve 
made any difference to her decision to take out PPI.
Ive taken into account Mrs Es comments, including what shes said about the way the bank 
dealt with other PPI on loans shed taken out. We look at all cases on their own merits, 
taking into account the particular circumstances which apply in each individual case. I am concerned here just with her complaint about the PPI sold with her credit card. So this 
information doesnt change my conclusion here.
In coming to my decision Ive thought carefully about everything that Mrs E has said, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view. 
I appreciate she feels strongly about this complaint. I understand that what Ive said will 
come as a disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points that have an 
impact on the outcome of this complaint. And although she mentioned some other things 
during the course of this complaint I can see that our adjudicator has already dealt with 
those issues. Theres nothing more I can usefully add to what our adjudicator has already 
said. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached 
my decision.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely that having better information wouldve put Mrs E off 
taking out the policy. On balance I think she still wouldve taken out the policy. 
This means I dont find that Mrs E has lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds did wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman