DRN-2473195
The complaint
Mr F complains The Co-operative Bank Plc wont refund a number of payments made from 
his account, which he says he didnt make.
What happened
Between 4 February 2020 and 13 March 2020 a number of payments were made from 
Mr Fs Co-op account, which he says he didnt make.
Co-op investigated but didnt agree to refund the payments as it said they were all done from 
Mr Fs mobile banking, using his phone, and it couldnt see how anyone else would know his 
mobile banking details. Mr F wasnt happy with Co-ops response, so he referred his 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said they felt it was likely Mr F had 
authorised the payments, so they didnt ask Co-op to refund them. Mr F disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Co-op needs to refund the payments to Mr F. Ill explain why 
below.
Generally, Co-op can hold Mr F liable for disputed payments if the evidence suggests its 
more likely than not that he made them himself, or told someone else they could make them 
with his card.
Co-op has sent us technical evidence showing how the disputed payments were made. And, 
from this, Im satisfied the payments were set up and completed through Mr Fs mobile 
banking.
But the relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow Co-op to hold 
Mr F liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than 
not that Mr F consented to the payments in dispute being made.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Co-ops evidence shows the payments were made through Mr Fs mobile banking. And Mr F 
has said no-one else knows the username and password for his mobile banking. So I cant 
see how anyone else would have been able to log in to Mr Fs mobile banking and make the 
payments.
The payments were also made using the same phone that was used to log in to Mr Fs 
mobile banking on several occasions in the days before and in between which the disputed 
payments were made. While Mr F said he couldnt find his phone for a few days, the 
payments were made over more than a month. And several payments were made through 
his mobile banking during this time which Mr F hasnt disputed. So it appears Mr F did have 
possession of his phone for at least some of the time during which the payments were made.
Mr F said he lost his previous phone too. But the disputed payments were all made using the 
same phone, and using the same phone that was used to make payments Mr F hasnt 
disputed too. So I dont think the disputed payments were done using this previous phone.
The general nature of the disputed payments also isnt the sort of thing a thief would 
normally do. Generally, the way fraudsters operate is to get as much money as quickly as 
possible in order to avoid the source of the money being cut-off or them being detected. But 
here, most of the payments are for relatively small amounts and they dont use up the full 
available balance in the account. There are also gaps of several days between the disputed 
payments. So I dont think its likely these transactions were done by an opportunistic thief.
I appreciate how Mr F feels about this case. But the evidence I have suggests the payments 
were done using a phone that was in his possession and theres no plausible explanation for 
how someone else knew his mobile banking username and password. So I think its more 
likely than not that Mr F either made the payments himself or authorised someone else to do 
so.
So I think Co-op has acted reasonably in holding Mr F liable for the payments, and I dont 
think it needs to refund the payments to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman