DRN-1336612
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr K 
says Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Egg, mis-sold him the policy.
What happened
Mr K was sold the policy in 2001, at the same time as taking out a credit card online.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators view, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case. Having done so, Im not upholding 
it for reasons that Ill explain.
Ive seen copies of screenshots from Barclays online application process at around the 
time of this sale. And Im satisfied that Mr K would have had to choose between two 
equally prominent options of either taking the PPI policy or declining it. Ive also seen 
information from Barclays systems which show that Mr K selected the option to take PPI with 
his card during the application process.
So, I think its most likely that Mr K actively chose to take PPI with his card, knowing he had 
a choice. But I can understand why he may not recall this now as the sale took place a long 
time ago.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for him. But it did need to make sure he got the information he needed to decide this 
himself. I think its likely that the information Barclays gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as 
good as it could have been. But Mr K chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like he was 
interested in this type of cover. And from what I know about his circumstances at the time, I 
dont think better information would have changed his mind about taking the PPI. I say this 
because:
 
He appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions and limitations.
 
Mr K says he didnt need the policy because he was eligible for sick pay and had 
some other means of making his repayments in need, including financial support from relatives. But this policy would have paid out in addition to any other means he 
had and for longer than his sick pay alone would have lasted. It would also have 
been more secure than relying on relatives for help if things went wrong. So I still 
think he would have valued the extra protection which the policy gave him.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr K. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
 
So I dont think that Mr K has lost out by anything that Barclays may have done wrong when 
it sold him this PPI policy.
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr K because:
 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr K about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr K, 
that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr K.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mr K any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman