DRN-2289997
The complaint
Ms P complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc dealt with a foreign transaction.
What happened
Ms P says she went to a HSBC branch to transfer £16,500 from her HSBC account to her 
account in Poland which was also a sterling account. She says she asked for help from 
HSBC staff, but the money was transferred to her account in Poland in Polish currency 
before being exchanged back to Sterling. Ms P says that cost her about £1,000 and was not 
told that would happen and that she made clear the transfer should be in Sterling. She says 
HSBC staff ought to have helped her understand the process due to language issues.
HSBC says it hasnt made a mistake and says Ms P attended its branch where she was 
given help to make the transfer. It says Ms P used online banking in its branch and the 
default setting for foreign transactions is the currency of the recipient country. It also says Ms 
P could have changed that and that she authorised and approved the transaction.
Ms P brought her complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought it difficult to be sure what took place in the branch but thought Ms P 
would have authorised the transaction and didnt think it unfair that HSBCs systems 
defaulted in this way to the currency of the recipient country.
Ms P doesnt accept that view and says HSBC ought to be responsible for what took place 
and its not her fault HSBCs systems default in this way. She says she told HSBC what she 
wanted to do and would not have transferred money in this way.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that HSBC has dealt fairly with this 
complaint and hasnt made a mistake. I appreciate that Ms P will be disappointed by my 
decision. I also make clear to both parties that its very difficult to be sure of exactly what took 
place in a branch and in these sorts of circumstances.
There is no dispute here that Ms P attended a HSBC branch in 2019 to transfer money to 
her account in Poland. I have looked at HSBCs records and Im satisfied that the transfer 
was made from Ms P, by accessing online banking within the branch. I have no doubt she 
received some assistance from HSBC staff as both sides have told us that. And I can see 
that HSBCs systems in these circumstances automatically default to the currency of the 
county of the recipient bank. I make clear that I think its up to HSBC to decide what currency 
it selects in those circumstances and its not our role to tell a business what currency it uses. 
I also think that HSBC could not know what currency an account was held in, that was in 
another bank in a different country.
I appreciate that Ms P says she told HSBC that she wanted to send the money in Sterling as 
her account in Poland was in Sterling. But Im satisfied that this transaction was made from 
Ms Ps online banking and she was responsible for it and authorised it. I dont think HSBC 
staff could have authorised the transaction and it was Ms Ps responsibility to check that it 
was accurate and correct. I accept that Ms P didnt want to send the money in this way, and I 
have no doubt language difficulties may have affected what took place. But that doesnt 
mean I can fairly hold HSBC responsible for that or that it could reasonably have known that 
Ms P had made a mistake or didnt understand the currency default position.
Overall, I cant fairly or reasonably conclude on balance that HSBC made a mistake or acted 
unfairly and so it follows that I cant order it to refund the exchange rate loss that Ms P 
suffered.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman