DRN-4490498
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) has recorded information with the credit reference agencies about a fixed 
sum loan he took out with it that is incorrect. 
What happened
In 2017 Mr P entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BPF to finance a new kitchen he 
bought from a supplier Ill call W. The kitchen cost £29,600 and Mr P borrowed £25,000.
The loan set out that repayments would begin 12 months after BPF paid W and if Mr P 
repaid the loan within those 12 months, he would not pay interest on the sum he borrowed. If 
he did not repay the loan within 12 months, the interest was £20,261. 
Mr P said he got into a dispute with W about the kitchen and as result it appears W did not 
call for the money from BPF until February 2019.  This meant Mr P had until February 2020 
to repay the loan interest free. Mr P made a separate complaint to BPF and then to this 
service about BPFs decision to pay W as he said this compromised his negotiations with W 
for compensation. An investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint as he said the terms of 
the loan agreement permitted BPF to pay W after Mr P had signed it or when W asked for 
the money. 
Mr P did not repay the loan before February 2020 so the amount repayable became 
£45,261.60 repayable in 60 monthly payments of £754.46. Mr P did not make any 
repayments to the loan and in April 2020 BPF issued a default notice. In May 2020 BPF 
defaulted the loan and instructed the credit reference agencies to record the default on      
Mr Ps credit file. 
In May 2021 Mr P agreed with the debt collectors BPF had appointed that he would pay it 
£27,157 in full and final settlement of the loan. 
After this Mr P was unhappy that BPFs records didnt reflect that the loan had been settled . 
He was also unhappy that it had instructed the credit reference agencies to record the loan 
as defaulted and partially settled when he said BPF had accepted his payment in full and 
final settlement of his debt to it. He complained to BPF
In response to Mr Ps complaint BPF said it had made an error following the settlement 
which meant the loan was not showing on its records as repaid. It paid Mr P compensation 
of £200 for these errors. However, BPF said the instructions it had given to the credit 
reference agencies were not incorrect. It said this was because the loan balance was 
£45,261.60 when the loan defaulted so although Mr Ps payment of £27,157 settled his debt 
with BPF, it was still a partial settlement of the amount that was owed when the payment 
was made. 
Dissatisfied with BPFs response to his complaint Mr P referred it to this service. 
After this BPF offered to pay Mr P £100 for incorrectly telling him on the phone that it would 
instruct the credit reference agencies to remove the default from his credit file.
An investigator didnt think BPF was reporting inaccurate information to the credit reference 
agencies. He said the information hed seen on Mr Ps credit files appeared to reflect what 
had happened, so he didnt think BPF had treated Mr P unfairly. He thought BPFs offer of 
£100 compensation was a fair one for the erroneous information it gave him. 
Mr P did not agree and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He provided a 
screenshot from a company providing credit file services which he said showed there was no 
mention the loan was settled. He also questioned why the loan should be recorded as 
partially settled when the sum he agreed to pay BPF was accepted in full and final 
settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what Mr P has provided in support of his assertion that the information about 
his loan on his credit file is inaccurate. This appears to be a screenshot from a company 
providing credit reference related services.  This company generally supply information 
relevant to an individuals financial standing and status with one or more of the credit 
reference agencies. It is worth keeping in mind however that the information it provides is not 
always necessarily presented or summarised in the same format as what say a lender 
carrying out a credit check might see. Lenders will typically have their own ways of reading 
and extracting information from credit files. 
Nevertheless, Ive considered whether the information Mr P has supplied about the status of 
the loan with the credit reference agencies appears to be an accurate reflection of what 
happened with the loan or not. 
The key information on the document is as follows:
The balance of the loan is £0 with all three credit reference agencies and the 
account shows as closed. 
The account status is showing as defaulted on 18 May 2020 with two of the credit 
reference agencies and defaulted in January 2020 with the other. All three show that 
£45,261 was owed when the loan defaulted.
The payment history (a record of monthly status codes reflecting the repayment 
position of the loan) shows the account was in default for a number of months but the 
latest codes after this show either U, S, SF, or PS (having researched these codes it 
appears they mean the account is either not being reported, settled or partially 
settled). 
BPF defaulted Mr Ps loan in May 2020. Mr P said in a previous complaint he made to this 
service that BPF shouldnt have paid W in February 2019 because he was still in dispute 
with W about the quality of the kitchen. So, he said he shouldnt have been put in a position 
where he needed to repay the loan before February 2020 to avoid paying interest. 
An investigator addressed Mr Ps complaint about when BPF paid W in the previous 
complaint. And it appears Mr P decided not to take that complaint any further with us. 
However, in order for me to decide whether the information Mr P disputes on his credit file is 
accurate, I need to address whether BPF was reasonable to record the default. This is because some of the information Mr P disputes is linked to this event. 
Mr Ps loan agreement set out that BPF would pay the loan amount directly to the retailer 
once we have approved the loan or on a later date requested by the retailer. This meant 
BPF had to pay W once W requested the loan funds from BPF (if this was later than when 
he signed the loan agreement). Ive seen nothing in the agreement which suggests Mr P was 
able to determine when BPF could pay W. 
So, while Mr P may have been in dispute with W still in February 2019, Ive seen no reason 
why BPF should reasonably have refused to pay W at that point. Mr P had authorised BPF 
to pay W when he signed the loan agreement. It just so happened that W didnt ask for the 
money from BPF until two years later  which was seemingly because of the dispute it was 
in with Mr P about the kitchen. 
There were avenues open to Mr P to claim against BPF if he still considered the kitchen was 
not satisfactory  namely a claim under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) 
which allows a consumer to claim against their lender for breaches of contract or 
misrepresentations by the supplier of goods financed by that lender. Both BPF and the 
investigator that looked into Mr Ps complaint in 2020 made him aware of this but it doesnt 
appear that Mr P ever made such a claim. From looking at Mr Ps previous complaint, I 
understand the issues with the quality of the kitchen itself were resolved by 2020 in any 
event.
All of this considered Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for BPF to pay W in February 
2019 when it asked for the money and to start the loan running then. Nor do I find it was 
unreasonable for it to add the interest to the loan of £20,261 and require Mr P to start 
making the monthly repayments when he had not repaid the balance within 12 months of 
this. 
The loan agreement also set out the consequences of not making repayments when 
required, including the fact that adverse information may be recorded with the credit 
reference agencies. 
It follows from this that having not received payments from Mr P when they were due, BPF 
did not act unreasonably by defaulting his account and recording this with the credit 
reference agencies. On this basis, where the information Mr P provided says his account 
defaulted and that the balance at the time of default was £45,261.60, I dont find this to be an 
inaccurate reflection of what happened with his loan. 
Around a year after the default Mr P agreed a sum with BPF to settle the loan which was 
less than the total amount he owed it. Ive looked at the document Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies which was 
prepared in collaboration between the Information Commissioners Office and the credit 
industry. I think the content of this document is a good indicator of what good industry 
practice looked like (something I am required to give regard to when making my decision on 
this complaint). 
The document says the following:
Your record should be closed and marked as partially settled if:
 The lender accepts final settlement of the account for less than the balance 
outstanding
The fact that the account was previously in default will remain on your credit file for 6 years from the date of default. If the account was not in default, the record would 
remain on your credit file for 6 years from the date of closure
I think the guidance here clearly applies to Mr Ps situation as BPF accepted a sum less than 
the balance outstanding and his loan was previously in default. Taking this into account, 
along with everything else Ive seen, where Mr Ps credit file displays information that his 
account was defaulted, partially settled and closed I dont find this to be an inaccurate 
reflection of what happened. 
Ive noted a couple of discrepancies between the different credit reference agencies on the 
information Mr P supplied. For example, one says the loan defaulted in January 2020 when 
the others say it was in May 2020. The correct date does appear to have been May 2020. 
So, I dont think the discrepancy disadvantages Mr P. The record showing the default in 
January 2020 means the loan information will disappear from his credit file earlier, which is 
more advantageous to Mr P. So, Im not going to ask BPF to change this. 
Overall, Im not persuaded BPF treated Mr P unfairly in the way it recorded information about 
his loan with the credit reference agencies. 
BPF accepts it failed to update its own records and incorrectly told Mr P it would remove the 
default. It said it paid compensation of £200 for this and offered an additional £100. I find this 
was reasonable in the circumstances given the overall impact of the errors on Mr P. I dont 
require BPF to pay Mr P any more than this.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, I do not require Clydesdale Financial Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance to do anymore than it has already offered to do. If 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance has not paid any 
of the total compensation of £300 it has offered over the course of Mr Ps complaint, it must 
pay this to him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman