DRN-3876297
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that they told Barclays Bank UK PLC from the outset why they 
wanted to add extra lending onto a Buy to Let (BTL) mortgage application, but it delayed in 
telling them this was outside of its lending policy.
What happened
Mr D started the process of making a BTL remortgage application with Barclays, on behalf of 
himself and Mrs D. Mr D has told us that the initial conversation with an advisor lasted for 
over an hour. On this call Mr D provided the details to support a BTL mortgage application, 
then arranged a formal mortgage appointment. Mr D said he was clear from the outset that 
he was seeking some extra lending, and he told Barclays what this was for. 
Mr Ds mortgage appointment was postponed, and Mr D told us the call to rearrange his 
mortgage appointment took another 20 minutes. But when Mr D then eventually had the 
mortgage appointment, he was told that Barclays lending criteria says it wont offer 
additional borrowing for the purpose Mr D wanted. 
Mr D accepts that lending criteria are a commercial matter for Barclays. So he says hes not 
complaining about that. He wanted to complain about the time which Barclays had wasted 
before telling him and Mrs D that it did not offer the lending they wanted. Mr D stressed that 
hed been clear about the purpose of the lending from the start, so he was complaining that 
Barclays didnt tell him right away that this fell outside of its lending policy. Mr D said this 
delayed an application elsewhere.
Barclays issued a response letter on this complaint on 19 June (although Mr D didnt receive 
this until some time later). Barclays said it didnt think this was a mistake. Barclays accepted 
Mr D had said what he wanted to use extra borrowing for, when he first spoke to Barclays. 
But Barclays said the person he was speaking to then doesnt give mortgage advice. It was 
only when Mr D spoke to one of its mortgage advisors that it could be clarified his lending 
was outside of Barclays policy. So Barclays said it wouldnt uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Our investigator noted that we might not be able to consider all of the issues Mr D was 
raising, as some of these were about the handling of his complaint, which isnt in itself a 
regulated activity. He would look whether Barclays had delayed unreasonably in clarifying its 
lending policy for Mr D. 
Our investigator set out that Mr D had three conversations with Barclays - 
1) a call with a Customer Service Adviser who collected his information and booked an 
appointment with a Mortgage Adviser to make an application,
2) a call to rearrange the above booked appointment as the Mortgage Adviser had fallen ill, 
3) a call with the Mortgage Adviser, who was able to tell Mr D that Barclays couldnt proceed 
with this application as it falls outside of Barclays lending criteria.
Our investigator didnt think this was excessive or unreasonable to establish a lending 
decision.
Mr D replied to disagree. He wanted us to look into the wider issues which happened when 
he tried to make and escalate his complaint. This case then came to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr Ds initial complaint was just about the length of time it took before his application 
reached a stage where someone was able to tell him that the lending he requested was 
outside of Barclays policy. And Mr D has been clear that he doesnt complain about the 
policy itself, just the length of time he wasted before he found this out. 
Mortgages are a surprisingly complex financial product, and Barclays has to take 
responsibility for the advice it gives on mortgages. Bearing both of those things in mind, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to say that only its dedicated mortgage advisors 
are able to cover the full range of issues involved, including having detailed knowledge of its 
lending policy, and areas where it prefers not to lend. So whilst I accept its unfortunate that 
Mr D spent time on an application that couldnt go ahead, I dont think the arrangements that 
Barclays had in place, or the amount of time this took, produced a result which was either 
unfair or unreasonable in Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Mr D raised his concerns about the delay in telling him about Barclays lending policy, on the 
same call where Mr D had received the advice about lending. So I think that Barclays did 
explain its position to Mr D promptly. 
I understand Mr D wanted us to consider more than just this issue, and Im sorry Im not able 
to do that. My previous decision on jurisdiction explains why Im not looking at Mr Ds other 
concerns here. 
I know Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed, but I have considered carefully the part of their 
complaint that I am permitted, by our rules, to consider. And I dont think it should be upheld.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman