DRN-2194164
The complaint
Mrs Ps complaint is that when she set up an online fixed term saving account with Metro 
Bank PLC it also set up a second account without her authorisation. She said that the 
additional savings account had a lower rate of interest rate and that she wasnt told some of 
her money was being held in the lower rate account until she contacted Metro Bank the 
following month about it failing to send her a 12-digit code from online banking.
What happened
Mrs P opened an online Fixed Term Savings account with Metro Bank in February 2020 and 
received an email to confirm this. The account had an 18-month term and interest rate of 
1.6%. She said the account was opened with a deposit of £37,525 which had come from 
another savings product. However, she said she had underestimated the amount she had 
and a further amount of over £11,000 was also transferred. Mrs P says that Metro Bank 
didnt contact her to ask where she wanted the additional funds to be placed and instead 
opened another account without her authority (an Instant Access Savings account) and 
placed the funds there. The Instant Access Savings account had a lower rate of interest.
Mrs P contacted Metro Bank on 25 March because she hadnt received her 12-digit code for 
online banking. She says only at this time was she made aware that she had two accounts. 
Metro Bank admitted some mistakes and offered to pay Mrs P £50, but she didnt accept 
this. Mrs P wants £150 compensation along with the £279.80 of interest she says she 
missed out on due to Metro Bank not taking her instructions for the additional funds.
Metro Bank says Mrs P completed an application for a Fixed Term Savings account with an 
investment amount of £37,525. It said the application process required her to declare that 
she had read the Terms and Conditions along with the Important Information Summary. This 
information explained that an Instant Access Savings account would be used to transfer the 
money in to the Fixed Term Savings account and that the transfer would happen once the 
agreed amount had been paid in, or 30 days had passed. 
Metro Bank said Mrs P was sent an email dated 12 February saying the Instant Access 
Savings account had been set up and a separate email was sent with the Terms and 
Conditions and the Important Information Summary leaflet. On 25 February a payment of 
£37,525 was made into Mrs Ps Instant Access Savings account and her Fixed Term 
Savings account was opened the same day and email confirmation of this was sent. 
Additional funds were then sent to Mrs Ps Instant Access Savings account on 6 March. 
Metro Bank said that the code for online banking should have been sent to Mrs P, but this 
didnt happen. Then, on a call on 13 March, she was told statements would be sent on the 
two accounts and the 12-digit number sent out. Unfortunately, this didnt happen, and Metro 
Bank offered to pay Mrs P £50 because of this. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said that the information provided to Mrs P 
set out the process of how the account would be set up and funded and that as Mrs Ps 
application for the account was successful she must have signed the declaration that she 
had read the account Terms and Conditions and the Important Information Summary. 
Our investigator noted that Metro Bank had accepted that the 12-digit access code wasnt 
sent out and that following her call on 13 March mistakes were made with the sending out of 
statements and the access code. She thought the £50 compensation offered for this was 
reasonable.
Mr P, on behalf of Mrs P, didnt accept our investigators view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs P applied for a Fixed Term Savings account online. I have looked at the 
Important Information Summary for the account and it explained that if the account 
is opened online an Instant Access Savings account will be opened automatically for 
the money to be transferred to the Fixed Term Savings account. Therefore, I find that 
Mrs P was provided with the information she needed to be aware that an Instant 
Access Savings account would be set up for her as part of the process of setting up a 
Fixed Term Savings account.
As part of the application process Mrs P needed to declare that she had read the 
terms and conditions of the account noted as the Fixed Term Savings Important 
Information Summary and so I find that she should have been reasonably aware of 
the information it contained.
Mrs P was sent an email dated 12 February 2020 providing details of the Instant 
Access Savings account and saying this will transfer money into the Fixed Term 
Savings account. It noted that £37,525 will need to be paid into that account and this 
will be automatically transferred to the Fixed Term Savings account. I note Mr Ps 
comments about this email, but I find the information provided shows the email was 
sent on 12 February and the account information provided shows the Instant Access 
Savings account was set up on that day.
The £37,525 was received on 25 February and the Fixed Term Savings account was 
set up on that day with the amount that had been set out. I find this is the process 
that should have been expected.
Mrs P then had a further amount transferred to the Instant Access Savings account 
on 6 March 2020. I understand why she was upset that she wasnt contacted about 
this. However, I do not find that Metro Bank was required to contact her about an 
amount she had decided to transfer to her account. The agreed funding amount for 
the Fixed Term Savings account had been paid and so I do not find that Metro Bank 
was required to contact Mrs P about any additional funds she transferred.
Overall, I do not find that Metro Bank did anything wrong by setting up the Instant 
Access Savings account as well as the Fixed Term Savings account. This was its 
usual process and information about this had been provided to Mrs P.
Mrs P didnt receive the service she should have as the information for online 
banking wasnt sent as it should have been, and her requests made on a call in March 2020 werent followed up on as they should have been. Therefore, I agree that 
she should be compensated for this.
I understand that Mrs P wants £150 compensation for the issues she has 
experienced however, as the online banking information was provided following a 
subsequent call I find that the £50 offered is reasonable. I note Mrs P also wants to 
be refunded for the interest she says she lost out on, however as I do not find that 
Metro Bank did anything wrong in the setting up of the account and transferring of 
funds I do not require it to refund this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC should pay Mrs P £50 compensation, as it has 
offered, due to the mistakes made in sending her the online banking code and responding to 
her request for statements.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman