DRN-3827699
The complaint
Mr B says Lloyds Bank PLC is not sharing information about his Classic account with the 
credit reference agencies. This is supressing his credit score and restricting his access to 
credit.
What happened
Mr B says Lloyds made a business decision to change the Classic account terms and 
conditions on 1 April 2004 that meant it would no longer share data with the credit reference 
agencies. It did not notify him or send a copy of the new terms. When he tried to find out 
more about this, after his application for third-party credit card was declined in November 
2021, the branch and the customer services team gave him conflicting information.   
Mr B says this has understated his credit score from 2004 onwards, leading to declined 
credit card and loan applications. It has left him out of pocket, taken up his time and stalled 
the repair of his credit file. He wants Lloyds to provide a copy of the 2004 terms and 
conditions; for data about his Classic account to be shared with the credit reference 
agencies; and for all accountholders to be periodically asked to opt-in or out of data sharing 
and to be told that Lloyds made a business decision not to share data from 1 April 2004 
onwards.
Lloyds said, in its final response letter, that data on Mr Bs Classic account was not shared 
as the account was opened prior to April 2004 and its terms do not include the necessary 
data sharing permissions. It paid Mr B £60 compensation to acknowledge that he had been 
given conflicting and incorrect information by the branch about this. It apologised for this and 
gave feedback to the branch. It offered to cover the £21 cost of a months temporary 
upgrade to a Platinum account which would mean his account would show on his credit file.  
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said Mr B had opened his account prior 
to April 2004 when the bank did not share information with the credit reference agencies. 
From April 2004 Lloyds terms included a clause to permit data sharing but this did not affect 
Mr Bs account as the bank made a decision not to vary the terms of accounts opened prior 
to this date. He felt Lloyds had offered a reasonable solution to accommodate Mr Bs request 
for his account data to be shared with the agencies. And he said £60 was proportionate 
compensation for the poor service Mr B received when he asked about this. 
Mr B disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. He said, in 
summary, his Classic account was opened in January 1970; it was the complaints manager 
at Lloyds that told him about the policy change on 1 April 2004; he was never told about the 
compulsory opting out of data sharing; Lloyds ought to have a copy of the 2004 terms on file 
as is best practice; the branch manager ought to have told him if he had been able to apply 
an opt-in to data sharing to his account as he said he would; and the arbitrary withdrawal of 
data sharing in 2004 means account holders have depleted credit scores
He provided an example of how another bank asked him, easily and effectively, for his 
consent to share data with the agencies. He also commented on what he says is an 
incorrect bank contact note saying he asked for £110 compensation on a different issue 
saying this raises concerns about incomplete and inaccurate record keeping and 
submissions. He also made some broader comments about GDPR requirements not being 
considered in the assessment, nor the ICOs interpretation of active consent for data 
sharing, and the debate the NHS triggered about consumers opportunity to opt in/out of 
decisions, rather than business decisions being the default position.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have carefully thought about all of Mr Bs comments but in keeping with our role as an
informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus here on the issues I
find to be material to the outcome of his complaint.
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint. I will explain why but first, as it is important context 
here, I want to set out what the powers we have, and what the rules we must follow, allow us 
to consider. Our remit is to look at the individual circumstances of a complaint; to assess if a 
business has made a mistake; and if so, to decide what it must do to put things right. We do 
not have the powers to review a banks systems, policies or processes, or the impact of a 
bank decision on a group of accountholders. That is the role of the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
In this case I have found no evidence of bank error, aside from the provision of inaccurate 
information from the branch when Mr B was investigating if data about his Classic account 
could be shared with the agencies. Lloyds has apologised that he was told his account could 
be updated to activate the data sharing as this is not the case. I find the £60 it paid to be fair 
compensation for this inaccurate advice.
Mr B believes the bank changed the terms of his account in 2004 and so ended data sharing 
with the agencies. This is not the case. It changed its banking terms to allow data sharing for 
all accounts opened from 1 April 2004 onwards. It made the decision not to change the 
terms of existing accounts, like Mr Bs, and so it has never shared data on his Classic 
account  in line with its terms and conditions. The bank has confirmed this is the case for all 
account opened prior to April 2004. I know this differs from Mr Bs pre-2004 recollections but 
I have seen no evidence to allow me to conclude data sharing was in place and then 
stopped. As Lloyds did not vary Mr Bs terms it would not have sent him revised terms. It 
follows, whilst I see it has frustrated Mr B, I cannot find he has suffered any detriment 
because Lloyds was unable to send him a copy of the terms it started to use in April 2004 as 
he requested. 
Lloyds explained that if Mr B temporarily upgraded his account it would appear on his credit 
file and it offered to cover the upgrade cost of £21 for a month. This seems to be a 
reasonable and practical solution.
I am not instructing Lloyds to take any further action. And it follows that as I have not found 
Lloyds made any mistakes on Mr Bs account, beyond the misinformation provided by the 
branch, I do not consider it is liable for any of the harm or losses Mr B has set out. I have 
seen no evidence to support Mr Bs claim that the lack of data for his Classic account on his 
credit file is the sole reason he was declined for credit in 2007 and 2021. If it was 
instrumental in restricting his access to credit I would have thought he would have become 
aware of this much sooner in the last 25+ years.
Mr B also raised a number of broader policy issues and asked for our review of his 
observations, but as I have explained previously that is not our role and so I will not be commenting as requested. I mean no discourtesy by this, but we have to operate within the 
rules that define our powers.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman