DRN-2264887
The complaint
Mr D complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) refused to switch his account 
which meant he lost a switch incentive and also complains about how it dealt with him and 
his attempt to get the balance from his RBS account.
What happened
Mr D wished to switch his RBS account to a different bank in March 2020, but the switch 
didnt go through as RBS decided to close his account. He says he lost a £150 switch 
incentive and says he then couldnt get his money out of another of his accounts despite 
attending a branch some distance from his home. Mr D would like the incentive fee paid to 
him as well as compensation for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
RBS says it was entitled to close the account and so the switch ended. It says Mr D can 
have the balance in his other account of just over £61 and doesnt accept misleading him in 
branch when he attended.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
RBS was entitled to close an account but that it wasnt clear why that took place or how that 
affected a switch. The investigator thought RBS could have explained what was going on 
and told Mr D why he wouldnt receive a new account card and helped him get his money 
when he attended the branch. The investigator thought RBS should pay £150 compensation 
for the lost incentive.
RBS has agreed to pay £150 but Mr D doesnt accept that view and in summary says that 
compensation amount doesnt go far enough and that he still hasnt received his money from 
the account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that RBS should pay Mr D £150 
compensation. I appreciate Mr D will be unhappy with my decision and I also accept there 
will be unanswered questions about what took place and about the events in the branch.
Im satisfied that RBS is entitled to reject an account application and to close a customers 
account. I think it made that decision before Mr D made his switch application and so I dont 
think RBS acted unfairly by telling the other bank that. I think it was up to the other bank to 
decide in those circumstances if Mr D was entitled to the switch incentive.
I accept that RBS ought to have been clearer in its communication with Mr D and explained 
what was happening with the closure of the account and the reason why a new account card 
wasnt being sent. I also think RBS ought to have closed the account far sooner than it did 
and can see it was operating some months after it was due to close. I appreciate that Mr D 
was caused inconvenience in those circumstances and would have spent some time trying 
to resolve matters. So, I think RBS should pay Mr D compensation.
The key question is what that amount should be. And I have come to the overall view, which 
I accept differs slightly from the investigators view (that RBS should pay the switch incentive 
of £150), that RBS should pay £150 compensation which I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I also think RBS should pay Mr D the account balance as 
soon as possible into the account he has given RBS details of. 
Overall, I have said that I think Mr D will have unanswered questions about what took place 
and Im sorry that we cant provide answers to some of those questions. But Im satisfied the 
compensation award fairly reflects what took place and the impact upon Mr D and takes into 
account that I dont think it possible to be sure on balance that Mr D would have been 
entitled to the switch incentive in these circumstances.
Putting things right
I intend to order RBS pay Mr D £150 compensation and pay him the account balance.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order The Royal Bank of Scotland 
Plc to pay Mr D £150 compensation and pay him the account balance. Mr Ds acceptance of 
this decision would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman