DRN-2435553
The complaint
Ms T complained to Insurance Factory Ltd that the premium for her pet insurance policy has 
been increased unfairly. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Ms T took out, will continue to cover any
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Insurance Factory should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Ms T when 
she took the policy.
Insurance Factory have accepted the information they gave Ms T about the policy wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. They have paid her £212.50 compensation for the trouble and 
upset shes been caused as a result of this. 
Its important to be clear that Insurance Factory are the administrators of Ms Ts policy and 
not the underwriters  so they do not set the price of her policy. But they are responsible for 
the information given to Ms T about her policy. 
The thing Insurance Factory did wrong was not give Ms T the information she needed to 
understand she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something 
has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer 
has lost out.
Ms T chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover. And, as she chose 
to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the greater level of cover it 
provided. If Ms T hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, and 
would have had to pay for all the dogs treatment herself, or a reduced level of cover, where 
she would still have found herself in a situation where the dogs conditions were no longer 
covered. So I think its likely she would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, even if 
shed known the premium could increase significantly in the future.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Ms T wasnt so
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been
something she was aware could happen, particularly if she claimed on the policy. And she
would have been better prepared that at some point it might not be possible to carry on with
the policy because it might become unaffordable.
Insurance Factory paid £212.50 to Ms T in recognition that the information she was given 
wasnt good enough. 
In our initial assessment of the case the investigator recommended Insurance Factory 
increase this their offer of compensation to £450 to recognise the level of trouble and upset 
caused to Ms T.
 
Insurance Factory disagree and say that Ms Ts case doesnt warrant higher compensation 
because when considered alongside some of their other customers with similar 
circumstances, they feel the offer is fair and reasonable.
 
I agree with our investigator that I think the circumstances of Ms Ts individual complaint 
warrant a higher level of compensation than has been paid  and I think £450 is a fair 
amount.
 
Ms T has held this policy for 10 years, since her dog was a puppy. The premium increase in 
2020 increase nearly doubled what she had been paying the year before and was a lot more 
significant than any increase she had seen in the past. She says paying the increase will 
cause her financial hardship  and what this means in practical terms for Ms T is that she 
now has to make the very difficult decision about whether to carry on with the policy and pay 
a premium thats much more than she ever expected to pay or cancel it and lose the cover. I 
think this would have come as a real shock  which is supported by Insurance Factorys 
case notes from when Ms T called in after receiving her renewal documents. 
Ms Ts dog is now over 10 years old and may well need treatment for an existing condition in 
the future. It will be harder to get a policy to that covers an older dog and especially one with 
existing conditions. 
Ms T clearly didnt expect to find herself this position. When she took out a lifetime policy, 
she expected it to be for just that  the whole of the dogs life. And now she is faced with the 
cover being unaffordable. Better information about the policy wouldve meant that she could 
have been more prepared for the possibility that she might not be able to afford to continue 
with the policy at some point and lose cover for her dogs existing medical conditions. 
Instead Ms T was shocked and upset when she realised. 
The award I make isnt to compensate Ms T for financial loss - I can see she has benefited
from the policy. Its about the impact that the lack of clear information has had on Ms T, both 
practically and emotionally. Its clear the difficult position she now finds herself in was not 
something she expected when she decided to take out lifetime cover. It has caused her a 
significant amount of trouble and upset. So, I think compensation of £450 is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I think compensation of £450 is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
I understand Insurance Factory Ltd have already paid Ms T £212.50 so they should now pay 
her the remaining £237.50 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman