DRN-3969196
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Grove Pension Solutions Limited when 
being advised about the transfer of his defined benefit pension. Mr S complains that the 
transfer process wasnt clear, that he was coerced into using its full advice service and that 
he is unhappy with the fee he is being charged. 
What happened
Around August 2021 Mr S was referred to Grove by his IFA because he was considering 
transferring the benefits from his defined benefit (DB) pension scheme to a personal 
pension. As Mr Ss IFA wasnt authorised by the regulator to advise on DB pension transfers 
it referred him to Grove which was able to provide pension transfer advice. 
Grove wrote to Mr S on 17 August 2021 enclosing some information about pension transfers 
and asking him, when he had had a chance to read the information, to let it know if he 
wished to proceed with his enquiry. The letter said that if Mr S decided to proceed with his 
enquiry there were two relevant stages: the first was its Abridged Service which was free 
and under which the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) only permitted it to 
make one of two recommendations, namely to either stay in the DB scheme or to conclude 
that it was unclear whether a transfer was suitable. The second was its Full Advice service 
which wasnt free and where a fee would be charged irrespective of the whether a transfer 
went ahead or not. 
Mr S signed a form on 19 August 2021 to say that he wanted to proceed with his enquiry. He 
went on to complete a fact-find document and in September there followed a telephone call 
between Mr S and Grove where his financial circumstances were discussed along with his 
retirement objectives. Mr S decided to proceed with the Abridged Service offered by Grove. 
On 1 October 2021 Grove provided Mr S with its Abridged Advice Pension Report which 
recommended that Mr S remain in his DB scheme. The report concluded by saying that Mr S 
would now need to decide if he did or didnt want to proceed to the Full Advice Service, for 
which there would be a charge of £6,015.16. It also said, You are not committed to anything 
at this stage and if you decide not to proceed any further before weve provided a full formal 
recommendation, then there is no charge. Equally, once we have made a full 
recommendation the fee is payable, irrespective of whether our recommendation is to 
transfer or not.
In mid-November 2021, and in January 2022, there were two phone calls between Grove 
and Mr S to discuss the Abridged Advice Report and to answer Mr Ss questions about 
moving to, and paying for, the Full Advice service. Groves insistent client process was also 
discussed and Grove made it clear that it couldnt guarantee to Mr S that it would support 
him if he went down the insistent client route.
Mr S signed a form on 12 January 2022 to say that he wished to proceed to Full Advice and 
that he understood that there would be a charge of £6,015.16. 
Grove sent Mr S a suitability report containing its full recommendation on 22 February 2022; 
the report recommended that he didnt transfer his DB scheme benefits. 
At the end of February 2022 Mr S emailed Grove asking it to provide him with copies of 
recordings of their telephone conversations. Grove tried to call Mr S to discuss his request 
over the following weeks without success eventually emailing him to explain that whilst it 
recorded its phone calls for training and monitoring purposes it currently did not have the 
facility to download calls and send them to clients. It also said that it could consider 
processing the transfer for Mr S on an insistent client basis if that was something he wanted 
to consider. 
Mr S complained to Grove at the start of June 2022. His complaints were:
That he was unhappy with the service provided and felt unfairly treated.
That he felt coerced into taking the Full Advice option and that his adviser was insisting that 
he did so before Grove was prepared to provide him with a transfer value comparator 
report.
That he had not been provided with copies of recordings of phone calls he had had with 
Grove.
That despite being advised that a transfer would be unsuitable, Grove had offered him the 
insistent client process which was clearly an inappropriate offer to make in the 
circumstances. 
He wasnt shown the full cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) prior to the Full Advice 
process which he considered unfair, particularly as he wasnt able to request one for himself. 
If he had known the CETV had fallen he would not have even considered transferring.
Grove looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Grove said it had 
reviewed the phone calls and found no evidence that it had coerced Mr S into proceeding 
with the Full Advice service. It said it had made it clear that he would be liable to pay the fee 
for the Full Advice irrespective of the recommendation and that he knew that there was a risk 
that no transfer would take place. Grove also said that at no point had its adviser said Mr S 
would be able to obtain a copy of the phone call recordings; this was because it simply did 
not have the facility to provide them. Grove sent Mr S transcripts of two calls Mr S had had 
with its adviser from which it could be seen that the fee payable for the advice had been 
discussed and that it had been Mr S that had asked the adviser to speculate on what the Full 
Advice and insistent client outcomes would be. Grove said the information it had given to 
Mr S was in response to questions hed asked and was not as a means of coercing him. 
Finally Grove said that its adviser had in fact said to Mr S that it would be prudent for him to 
obtain a new CETV before moving to the Full Advice process but hed chosen not to. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Groves investigation, Mr S complained to this service. Our 
Investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. He said that 
Grove had made it clear that the Full Advice service wasnt free and he said hed seen no 
evidence that Grove had coerced him into proceeding with it. Our Investigator also thought 
Grove had at no point guaranteed that the transfer would proceed. And he said that Grove 
hadnt unfairly declined to provide Mr S with a copy of the transfer value comparator before 
fully advising him; he said this report formed part of the Full Advice process. 
Mr S disagreed with our Investigators findings. He provided our Investigator with his 
comments which largely repeated those he had made previously and had already been 
considered by our Investigator. 
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this is a complaint that should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
From 2020, the regulator permitted financial firms to provide an abridged advice service to 
clients seeking advice on their DB schemes. That service can only yield two possible 
outcomes: either a recommendation not to transfer or, a notification that it is unclear whether 
or not that a transfer was in a clients best interests. 
Ive considered the terms and conditions provided to Mr S by Grove at the start of the advice 
process. I can see that they set out that Grove offers four types of service  triage, abridged, 
full and ongoing. The terms and conditions state: 
We make no charge to take an initial look at things and help you understand the pension 
youve got. You will pay us an adviser charge for our services where Full Advice has been 
provided
Abridged AdviceAssesses your personal circumstances and can tell you if a pension 
transfer is NOT right for you or whether you should explore it further with Full Advice.
Full Advice This Service is subject to a fee. A full analysis of your scheme benefits & 
personal circumstances covering potential new pension, available benefits and investment 
risk analysis.
And:
If you have agreed to proceed with Full Advice, as set out in the attached pricing 
information, you will be liable to pay the full fee irrespective of whether a transfer is 
completed. In the interest of clarity, the Full Advice fee is paid for the Full Advice service, not 
the outcome.
I can also see that the letter Grove sent Mr S on 17 August 2021 contained clear information 
about the types of services offered, the applicable fee for Full Advice and the circumstances 
under which it is due. And the Abridged Advice Pension Report dated October 2021, the 
covering letter sent the same day and the options form Mr S signed on 12 January 2022 
stating that he wanted to proceed to Full Advice, all cited the fee and the circumstances 
under which it fell due. 
I can see from the transcripts of the phone calls that Mr S was somewhat wary about having 
to pay the fee for Full Advice in circumstances where the abridged advice recommendation 
was that he should not transfer. So I accept that paying over £6,000 for without obtaining 
what he wanted was disappointing to Mr S. But I think Grove made it clear from the outset 
that he would be liable for the fee if he proceeded to Full Advice even if it ended up advising 
him against transferring his pension. I cant reasonably agree with Mr S that Groves 
processes lacked transparency. 
I can also see from the transcripts of the phone calls that Grove gave Mr S no guarantees 
that Full Advice would lead to it recommending he transfer his DB scheme, or that it would 
support him if he elected to use its insistent client process. Of course I understand why Mr S 
is unhappy with the outcome of the advice he received but I think that Grove was clear with 
him from the outset about its process  and Ive seen no evidence from the transcripts Ive 
reviewed that it told him anything different. Nor have I seen any evidence from the 
transcripts that Grove in any way coerced Mr S into paying for Full Advice. Grove made it clear in both the phone calls and the documentation it provided to Mr S what the extent, and 
limitations, of the Abridged Service were. 
Ive also seen no evidence that Groves adviser insisted that Mr S pay for Full Advice before 
it was prepared to provide him with a copy of the transfer value comparator. The provision of 
Full Advice about whether to transfer a DB pension, and where it should be transferred to, is 
a detailed process for which the regulator requires the production of specific information and 
reports. The FCA doesnt permit any detailed analysis of where a DB scheme is transferred 
to unless it forms part of the Full Advice process and one purpose of a transfer value 
comparator is to analyse where the DB scheme in question should be transferred to. And 
producing a transfer value comparator requires actuarial input and is not without cost. So 
I dont think Grove informing Mr S that he couldnt obtain a transfer value comparator ahead 
of him receiving Full Advice was unfair or unreasonable. The components of Full Advice 
cant be separated and produced in isolation at a consumers behest. A transfer value 
comparator report is only part of the Full Advice process and is produced to help enable 
consumers to make a fully informed decision about how to proceed.
I appreciate that Mr S has asked Grove for copies of the call recordings between them. I can 
see that Grove says it doesnt have the facility to provide them; that it is unable to provide 
them rather that it refused to provide them. I can see that it has provided Mr S with 
transcripts of the advice calls between them; I think thats reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive thought about Mr Ss complaint that Grove inappropriately told him about the insistent 
client option. From the evidence Ive seen it seems this option was only discussed after Mr S 
asked Grove during one of the advice phone calls what would happen should he disagree 
with any subsequent recommendation it made not to transfer. I can see that Grove told Mr S 
about the insistent client option in response to that query but that it also made it clear that 
there was no guarantee that it would support him should he ultimately express a wish to 
proceed on that basis. And I can see that when Mr S expressed dissatisfaction with Groves 
recommendation not to transfer, Grove said in response that it could consider facilitating a 
transfer for him on an insistent client basis but it would need him to first provide his reasons 
why he wanted to proceed against its advice. 
Grove is required to treat its customers fairly and to provide them with information that is 
clear and not misleading. From the evidence Ive seen I think Grove did this in respect of 
Mr Ss enquiries and questions around the insistent client process. When he was 
disappointed with its recommendation not to proceed, I dont consider it to be inappropriate 
that it offered to consider facilitating the transfer under the insistent client process if that was 
something Mr S remained interested in. It didnt promise that it would do so, it merely offered 
to consider it. Had Mr S chosen to proceed with the process he would, however, have been 
going against Groves recommendation. But that is the point of an insistent client process. 
And Grove wouldnt have been supporting him by letting him do so. So I cant say that 
Grove treated Mr S unfairly or unreasonably in this respect. 
It is unclear to me why Mr S didnt obtain an up-to date CETV ahead of proceeding with the 
Full Advice process if the determining factor for him on whether to transfer his DB scheme or 
not was the current CETV. I can see from the phone call transcripts that Grove advised Mr S 
that it would be prudent if he obtained an up-to date CETV from his scheme  as he was 
entitled to do (subject to paying a fee)  ahead of moving to Full Advice. I cant see that Mr S 
took Groves advice. So from the evidence Ive seen I cant reasonably conclude that Grove 
was in any way at fault for Mr S not seeing an up-to date CETV prior to deciding that he was 
going to proceed to Full Advice. Grove advised Mr S to contact his DB scheme trustees to 
do so but it seems he chose not to.It follows that I dont think that this is a complaint that I can fairly or reasonably uphold. Ive 
seen no evidence that Grove treated Mr S unfairly or provided him with a poor service. I 
understand that Mr S is disappointed about having to pay over £6,000 for advice when he 
cant proceed with his transfer. But I think Grove was transparent about the cost of its 
services and provided Mr S with clear information so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether he wished to proceed or not before incurring any costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman