DRN-3672896
The complaint
Mr K complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited avoided his home insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim
What happened
Mr K took out a home insurance policy with Admiral Insurance through a comparison website 
online. Mr K made a claim under his policy with Admiral. 
Admiral said hed answered the question it asked about not having any Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA)s incorrectly. And it considered this to be a careless qualifying 
misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy, decline his claim because of this and 
refund the premium hed already paid. 
Mr K brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
thought Admiral had acted reasonably, in line with relevant legislation and the policy. Admiral 
had provided evidence to show Mr K hadnt answered the key question correctly and 
evidence it wouldnt have offered Mr K a policy if he had told it about an IVA. 
Mr K doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
says he hasnt been provided with any evidence to show he was asked a question about 
having an IVA. Mr K has carried out quotes online through Admirals website and it doesnt 
ask him a question about an IVA. So he thinks this is unfair as he believes Admiral allows 
customers to buy a policy it can avoid based on information it doesnt ask at the outset. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Admiral thinks Mr K failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
was asked the following question on a comparison website, which he answered no. 
Bankruptcy and CCJs
Have you or anyone living in the property been declared bankrupt or had a County 
Court Judgment (CCJ) or Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA)
As Mr K answered no on the comparison website, this allowed Admiral to offer cover, and 
this led to Mr K being directed to Admirals website to complete the application. 
Admiral has provided a copy of the application Mr K submitted online - and of the Important 
Statements screen Mr K answered yes to in order to proceed with buying the policy. 
Admiral has given consent for us to share a copy of Mr Ks answers with him. Mr K was 
asked to answer either yes or no to the following statements:
Important Statements
About the occupants
The occupants...
- are not currently bankrupt or making payments under an Individual Voluntary 
Agreement (IVA)
- have not had any insurance policy cancelled, refused, declared void, or had special 
terms applied
- do not have any unspent or pending criminal convictions
- do not have an ongoing buildings or contents claim with another insurer
Are all of these statements true?
Yes No
Admiral say there was an information button that provided information to assist in 
answering the question. It read;
Bankruptcy
Please tell us if you or any occupant is currently bankrupt or has an unsettled IVA 
(Individual Voluntary Agreement). Important: If any occupant is currently bankrupt or 
has an unsettled IVA, we may not be able to offer cover. In Scotland bankruptcy is 
sometimes called 'sequestration' and IVAs sometimes called 'Trust Deeds'.
Admiral said Mr K answered yes to these statements which led to Mr K being able to 
complete his application and buy the policy. 
Ive looked at the question Mr K was asked about having an IVA and I think it was clear. 
When Admiral asked Mr K why hed answered the question incorrectly, he told it he had 
noticed the question about Bankruptcy but hadnt noticed it also asked about IVAs.
So I think Mr K didnt take reasonable care when answering the question. 
Mr K has since carried out quotes online with Admiral and provided screenshots of quotes 
where a question about Bankruptcy isnt asked. Admiral told us that when Mr K applied for 
this policy, he was asked a question about Bankruptcy through the comparison website. And 
as Admiral has provided evidence to show this was the case, any differences Mr K has 
subsequently identified doesnt change the outcome here. Ive considered the evidence to show what questions Mr K was asked and whether he answered them correctly when he 
applied for this policy. 
The next thing for me to consider is whether the misrepresentation would have made a 
difference and if it was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
Admiral has provided evidence from its underwriter to show it wouldnt have offered a policy 
if it knew Mr K had an IVA. An insurers underwriting criteria is commercially sensitive and so 
we cannot share it with a customer. But we can ask an insurer to provide its underwriting 
information to us so that we can see if its treated a customer fairly. 
So based on the underwriting evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr Ks misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one.
Admiral has said Mr Ks misrepresentation was careless because he failed to notice when 
answering the question that it included an IVA. It accepted Mr Ks explanation and didnt find 
Mr Ks misrepresentation had been deliberate or reckless. 
I agree that Mr Ks misrepresentation was careless for the same reason. So as Im satisfied 
Mr Ks misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the actions Admiral 
can take in accordance with CIDRA.
Admiral is entitled to avoid the policy where it has shown it wouldnt have offered cover. So 
in this case, Admiral can avoid the policy for careless misrepresentation and return any 
unused premiums the consumer paid.
Admiral avoided Mr Ks policy and refunded the unused premium he paid to him. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Admiral was entitled to avoid Mr Ks policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Admiral does not have 
to deal with his claim. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation 
cases, I think allowing Admiral to rely on it to avoid Mr Ks policy produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr K. But for the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman