DRN-3822788
The complaint
Miss T complains that Legal & General (Portfolio Management Service) Ltd (L&G) mis-sold 
and mismanaged her pension. Shes unhappy it decided to close the fund this was invested 
in, and with the transaction costs involved in switching her pension to a new fund. 
What happened
In 2013, Miss T became a member of her now previous employers group personal pension 
plan that invested in the 10 Year Lifestyle Profile fund (Lifestyle Profile).
In February 2022, L&G wrote to Miss T saying that as she was no longer a member it would 
move her pension into its default investment option  the Multi-Asset Fund (MAF)  with 
effect from 13 April 2022. L&G provided Miss T with 60 days notice to decide if this was right 
for her and said that otherwise she could change her investments by looking at its online 
facility or getting in touch with it. It also said the transaction cost in switching to the MAF 
would be around 0.165% and that this reflected market costs for selling and purchasing 
units. 
In May 2022, Miss T complained to L&G, in summary, that the Lifestyle Profile was mis-sold 
to her and mis-managed. She said this didnt minimise volatility close to retirement age in the 
way L&G promised, given her fund value fell 16% between December 2021 and April 2022. 
Miss T said 75% of her fund was invested in gilts and bonds with risk ratings of 5 out of 7. 
And that L&G caused Miss T a lot of upset and stress, particularly as the drop in fund value 
means she feels she can no longer do what shed planned on reaching her retirement date.
Miss T said that L&G closing the Lifestyle Profile and forcing her to switch funds at a cost to 
her was unreasonable with less than a year to her selected retirement date. Miss T said she 
was charged more during the switch to the MAF than L&G said she would, as her fund value 
dropped by £3,300, which was around 1.65% of its overall value. Miss T said shes since 
been told the actual transaction fee was 0.699%, amounting to £1,400, which is still more 
than she anticipated and its unclear why she lost a further £1,900. Miss T said that if shed 
known this is what switching to the MAF would cost she would have chosen another option. 
 
In response, L&G said the Lifestyle Profile was a bespoke default arrangement with Miss Ts 
previous employer. It said Miss Ts fund was invested as per the stated mix and delivered 
strong returns prior to mid-2020. But that through 2021 and 2022 prices were volatile and fell 
between 8% and 12%, such that any fund which tracks a benchmark comprised of gilts and 
bonds will have fallen, which the Russian invasion of Ukraine was a key driver behind. 
L&G said Miss T is no longer linked to her employer for its pension investment options, 
including the Lifestyle Profile. And, in any case, it decided to close this as it was no longer 
considered to be an appropriate default investment strategy. L&G also said that while     
Miss Ts switch was processed on 13 April 2022 and had a fund value of £200,448.89 at that 
point, this was done with a unit price effective two working days later, on 19 April 2022 after 
accounting for bank holidays. And that by that point unit prices had dropped equating to 
1.66% of Miss Ts overall fund value, which explains the drop shes referred to. 
In relation to the switch transaction costs, L&G said the cash and gilt holdings in Miss Ts 
Lifestyle Profile fund didnt attract such costs. It said Miss T made a gain on the dealing price 
of her bond holdings. And that when also taking into account the way the MAF was priced, 
the switch transaction cost was equivalent to -0.136% of Miss Ts overall fund. L&G also 
apologised for incorrectly telling Miss T this was 0.699%. 
Unhappy with this response, Miss T brought her complaint to our Service. One of our 
Investigators looked into it and didnt uphold it. She said that while gilts and bonds that     
Miss T was invested in within the Lifestyle Profile have typically been considered lower risk, 
these arent risk free. And that, while the risk rating for this type of investment has increased 
over time, this reflects unprecedented market conditions. She said L&G wasnt responsible 
for the 16% drop in Miss Ts fund value, as performance isnt guaranteed. And that L&G 
acted fairly and in line with the plan terms and conditions when closing the Lifestyle Profile. 
She also said that Miss T incurred lower transaction costs than expected during the switch, 
given it appears she incurred negative costs. 
Miss T didnt agree, adding that she was unhappy with the scale by which her pension value 
dropped in four months. And she maintained that L&G didnt move her pension into lower 
risk funds when approaching her retirement date in light of the risk ratings. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking L&G to do anything, for largely the same reasons as the 
Investigator. Ill explain why. 
Miss T was enrolled in her employers workplace pension plan with L&G, where shes said 
she opted to invest in the Lifestyle Profile fund as the default investment fund. The employee 
can choose to opt-out of this and select their own investment funds. Information is usually 
set out about this in the employer communications issued before the employee is enrolled in 
the scheme. And, once enrolled, the pension provider usually provides a welcome pack or a 
link to one with further information. 
I havent seen anything to suggest L&G provided Miss T with any advice here. And I think 
the Members booklet, which I think Miss Ts likely to have been provided with when she 
enrolled, is clear on what L&Gs role is and how the arrangement works. It clearly says, 
under the section dealing with insured arrangements, that Miss T could manage her 
investment choices at any time. And that L&G isnt responsible for the choices and actions 
taken by her, her employer, or any financial adviser appointed by her, in doing so. This 
means L&G wasnt responsible for how Miss Ts funds were invested or for monitoring these.
Lifestyle profiles usually seek to manage investment risks as someones retirement age 
approaches, by gradually moving investments out of equity type investments and into cash 
and fixed investments. And it isnt in dispute that in Miss Ts case, with less than a year 
before her selected retirement age, her fund was invested 25% in cash and 75% in gilts and 
bonds. While Miss Ts says these funds have a high-risk rating this type of investment 
usually exhibits lower volatility than equity assets over the long term. And I think L&G clearly 
set out in the documentation that it would move Miss Ts plan into the funds it did, in the 
above proportions, as she moved closer to her retirement date. This means I think L&G 
correctly followed the strategy it set out for the Lifestyle Profile in the run up to Miss Ts 
selected retirement date.I appreciate Miss Ts said her fund value dropped 16% in the four months before the switch, 
but I think its important to bear in mind that such strategies dont eliminate risk and in certain 
situations fixed interest investments can fall in value sharply, as was the case here. And        
I think L&G made Miss T reasonably aware of the risks, as I can see that the two page 
Lifestyle Profile information sheet she provided us with says in bold on the first page to, 
Please remember that the value of investments can go down as well as up. Its particularly 
important to remember this if you are close to taking your benefits.. This goes on to say that 
a Lifestyle Profile doesnt guarantee the value of the pension fund, these arent risk free, and 
that there might be another fund or profile more suitable to Miss Ts needs and that she 
could move her pension between funds at any time. 
In summary, while I understand Miss Ts disappointed with the performance of her fund, L&G 
correctly followed the Lifestyle Profile strategy set out. It wasnt responsible for ensuring 
Miss Ts funds were suitable for her. And I havent seen anything to suggest L&G 
mismanaged these  the underlying funds appear to have achieved similar returns to the 
benchmarks they track, indicating they didnt perform any worse than comparable funds.
Turning to the closure of the Lifestyle Profile, L&G made a commercial decision to no longer 
offer this and the Members booklet sets out under Making Changes that it can do this. It 
states it may stop offering a lifestyle profile that a member is invested in. And I cant fairly 
say L&G did anything wrong by closing this  its entitled to decide what funds it wants to 
offer and for which products. L&G gave Miss T 60 days notice and details of her options.      
I think this was a reasonable amount of time for her to consider these and its in line with 
what the booklet sets out that L&G will give where possible in that case. 
Miss T has said the costs incurred during the switch to the MAF were more than she was led 
to believe these would be and if shed known she would have chosen to switch to another 
fund. But L&G has shown the switch incurred negative transaction costs overall due to the 
respective dealing prices of the funds at the time. 
L&G also clarified that the £3,300 Miss Ts said the switch cost was actually due to a drop in 
the value of her funds within the Lifestyle Profile during the switch process, rather than due 
to transaction costs. L&Gs confirmed it processed the switch on 13 April 2022  the date it 
told Miss T it would move her investments  with a unit price effective two working days later 
on 19 April 2022 due to bank holidays. And, while the unit price unfortunately appears to 
have dropped during this time, impacting the value Miss Ts investments achieved during the 
switch, I cant fairly hold L&G responsible for this. This is because I think it carried out the 
switch in a reasonable amount of time and in line with the Members booklet, which says the 
value will be calculated based on unit prices on the second subsequent working day. 
Miss T had to switch funds, and it seems the overall transaction costs involved in doing so 
were negative and therefore lower than what shed initially been led to believe. And I think 
the drop in value of her pension during the switch process would have always happened due 
to the performance of the Lifestyle Profile. So it naturally follows that Im not persuaded   
Miss T would have chosen to switch to another fund other than the MAF. 
It seems L&G gave Miss T incorrect information about how much the switch had cost after 
this had taken place, adding to her concerns that these werent right. But I can see L&G has 
recognised this and apologised. And I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
to make up for its error. 
So, for the reasons Ive given, Im not asking L&G to do anything. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold Miss Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman