DRN-3690705
The Complaint
Mr M says that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays Partner Finance)
(BPF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a holiday product purchased on
22 September 2009 (the Time of Sale).
The claims, which are the subject of this complaint, are Mr Ms because they relate to a loan
in his sole name. But as the transaction in question relates to a contract entered into by both
him and his wife, Ill refer to Mr and Mrs M at times throughout this decision.
Background to the Complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought membership of a holiday club at the Time of Sale and used a loan (in 
Mr Ms name) from BPF to help finance that purchase.
Unhappy with what had happened at and after the Time of Sale, Mr M  using a professional 
representative (LF)  made claims for misrepresentation and an unfair relationship under 
Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA on 15 January 2018 (the Letter of Claim). As both sides 
are already familiar with the reasons for those claims, I wont repeat them here. But it is 
helpful to note that the Letter of Claim did suggest that BPF hadnt carried out the right 
checks before lending to Mr M.
BPF says that it responded to the Letter of Claim in February 2018. Its not entirely clear
what that response said as I havent seen a copy of it. But its evident that Mr Ms claims
werent successful as far as BPF was concerned. So, a complaint was referred to the
Financial Ombudsman Service in June that year. It was then looked at by an investigator
who, having considered the information available, concluded the following:
1. A complaint about Mr Ms claims under Sections 75 and 140A of the CCA was made on 
time under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) six and three-year time limit (in light 
of an objection from BPF).
2. Both claims were out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA)  which gave BPF a 
defence to them.
Mr M disagreed. And his new professional representative (M) asked the investigator to
consider the following:
Irresponsible lending as no affordability checks were undertaken by the Supplier.
Pressure as the sales presentation lasted at least eight hours and Mr and Mrs M werent 
allowed to leave  which clearly gives rise to an unfair relationship contrary to Section 
140A of the CCA.
Tactics used by the Supplier were nothing short of undue influence.
Mr and Mrs M were told that their membership was an investment when it clearly wasnt.
Mr and Mrs M should have had the opportunity to thoroughly review the contract and 
make an informed, unpressured decision.
The Supplier wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority to broker credit, such
that Mr Ms loan was void in light of a breach of Section 19 of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000.
The additional borrowing remains intrinsically linked to the first transaction and had the
borrowing been affordable the clients would still be paying the first loan until expiry of the
same and clearly within limitation.
The Supplier received undisclosed commission from BPF  which would give rise to an
unfair relationship under Section 140A of the CCA.
The Supplier was selling the same product to many consumers knowing full well that, if
they all wanted to holiday at the same time as Mr and Mrs M, it wasnt possible to
accommodate that. So, each and every misrepresentation by the Supplier was
fraudulent.
Mr M could not have known that the Suppliers misrepresentations were fraudulent or
what remedy was available to him until he instructed M who, in turn, told him that the
misrepresentations were fraudulent.
Mr M can rely on Section 32 of the LA to extend the time available to claim.
As an informal resolution couldnt be found, the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans
decision  which is why it was passed to me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD) on 9 August 2022  which focused on the merits of this 
complaint as the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction, as far as the FCAs six and 
three-year time limit is concerned, no longer appeared to be in dispute. And with that being 
the case, I concluded that Mr Ms claims under Sections 75 and 140A were both out of time 
under the LA. I also wasnt persuaded by the suggestion that he had been lent to 
irresponsibly.
BPF had nothing to add to this complaint in response to my PD  nor did M. But Mr M did 
respond. 
During a conversation with one of our investigators, Mr M indicated that he had tried to 
relinquish his membership not long after having purchased it. Following that conversation, he 
submitted an email he sent to a professional representative (LM) on 12 February 2014. And 
in that email, he told LM that he had originally made a complaint by completing an online 
form on a third-party website on 13 January that year. 
Mr M got a response from LM on the same day as his email to it  which he also shared. 
And, in summary, it offered to give him an opinion on the merits of his concerns about the 
Supplier in return for a fee.
As the deadline for responses to my PD has now been and gone, Ive considered this 
complaint for a Final Decision.What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld for the same reasons 
I gave in my PD. I realise this will be disappointing for Mr M. But I hope he understands why 
thats the conclusion Ive reached.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
As I said in my PD, Mr M made a like claim against BPF under Section 75 of the CCA and 
he had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr M entered into the
purchase and Credit Agreements. I say this because he entered into the purchase
agreement based on the alleged misrepresentations of the Supplier  which he relied on. 
And as the loan from BPF was used to help finance the purchase, it was when he entered 
into the Credit Agreement that he suffered a loss.
It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued when Mr M entered into the purchase
agreement or, if later, the Credit Agreement  which means he had six years from either of
those points in time to make a claim. But despite Mr Ms response to my PD, it still doesnt 
look like he did that until January 2018. And for that reason, I still think BPF had and has a 
defence to it under the LA given its timing.
Section 140A
Only a court has the power to decide whether the relationship between Mr M and BPF was
unfair for the purpose of Section 140A. But, as its relevant law, I do have to consider it if it
applies to the Credit Agreement  which it does.
However, the time limit to make this claim for the purposes of the LA ran from the date the 
credit agreement ended if it wasnt in place at the time the claim was made. As the limitation 
period is six years, and as this claim still looks like it was only made in January 2018, I 
remain of the view that BPF is entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to this claim too given 
its timing. And for that reason, I still see no reason to ask BPF to do anything further in 
relation to this claim either.1
It was said in the Letter of Claim that not disclosing the amount of commission paid by BPF 
to the Supplier made the relationship between BPF and Mr M unfair. But, as I said in my PD, 
from what Ive seen across the timeshare industry, if commission was ever paid it tended to 
be low. So, for that reason, and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, I still think its 
unlikely that the levels of commission normally paid in situations like the one in question 
were high enough to put BPF on notice that not disclosing commission to Mr M risked 
making their debtor-creditor relationship unfair under Section 140A.
1 In response to the investigators assessment, M also said that the Supplier wasnt authorised by the Financial Conduct 
Authority to broker credit, such that Mr Ms loan was void in light of a breach of Section 19 of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000. If the Supplier wasnt authorised to broker credit by the relevant regulatory body, that might have implications 
on the Credit Agreement and might give rise to a separate complaint. But as this allegation wasnt put to BPF when the claim 
and complaint in question were first made to it, it wouldnt be appropriate to consider the assertion as a separate cause of 
complaint before BPF has had the chance to do so first. And as Ive already explained why the claim under Section 140A was 
likely to have been made out of time under the LA, I dont think the allegation changes what Ive already said about the timing of 
that claim.Grounds to Extend Time
In response to the investigators assessment, M said that the Suppliers misrepresentations 
were fraudulent  which Mr M could not have known until he was told that was the case by 
M. It said that Mr M can rely on Section 32 of the LA to extend the time available to claim. 
And it also said the following:
The additional borrowing remains intrinsically linked to the first transaction and had the
borrowing been affordable the clients would still be paying the first loan until expiry of the
same and clearly within limitation.
Its still not clear what M was trying to say here. On what remains my reading of the point, it 
seems to have been suggesting that Mr Ms claims were made in time under the LA 
because, had the loan from BPF been affordable, he would have made the repayments and 
run the loan to term. But I still cant see why the relevant time limit under the LA should be 
determined according to a scenario that never happened.
I also cant see why the mere fact that the Supplier sold the same product to a number of
consumers who may have wanted to holiday at similar times of the year automatically
leads to the conclusion that each and every misrepresentation (if made) would have been
fraudulent. And as nothing has been said and/or provided in response to my PD to bolster 
this argument, Im not persuaded that the elements necessary to make such a finding are 
satisfied.
Section 32(1)(b) applies when any fact relevant to the plaintiffs right of action has been
deliberately concealed from him by the defendant. But given the circumstances of this
complaint, Im still not persuaded that theres a reason why time might be extended in 
keeping with the provisions of the LA.
Unaffordable Lending
The suggestion in the Letter of Claim that BPF didnt carry out the right checks when it lent
to Mr M looks like it was framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under
Section 140A. And Ive already explained why the claim under that provision was likely to 
have been made out of time under the LA.
But as I said in my PD, lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in 
question was an activity covered by the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction at the 
Time of Sale. But its still the case that very little has been said about this particular 
suggestion. And even if I were to find that BPF failed to do everything it should have when it 
agreed to lend (and I make no such finding), Id have to be satisfied that the lending was 
unaffordable for Mr M before also concluding that he lost out as a result. As I still havent 
seen anything to persuade me that was the case, I dont think this is a reason to uphold this 
complaint given its circumstances.
Conclusion
Ultimately, as Ive said before, its for the courts to decide whether or not the relevant
claims against the Supplier or BPF have expired under the LA. But, as far as I can
see from the information available, any claim that might exist against BPF is likely to have 
been made outside the time limits set out in the LA. And given what Ive said about the 
allegation of unaffordable lending, Im not persuaded that BPF needs to do anything to put 
things right in this complaint.My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman