DRN-3553129
The complaint
Miss B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund payments made from her 
account which she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
Background
Miss B has said that in June 2021, she logged onto her mobile banking app and saw a credit 
had been received into her account for £4,000 from a loan company she didnt recognise. 
Three payments had then been made out of the account, over the next few days to the same 
new payee, that Miss B also didnt recognise, totalling £4,450. Miss B contacted her bank 
immediately to raise a claim.
Barclays investigated Miss Bs claim but declined to refund her. It said that no third party 
access was established on Miss Bs account and that the disputed transactions were 
completed on her genuine mobile banking device.
Miss B maintains that the transactions werent completed by her and brought the complaint 
to our service. An investigator considered Miss Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. As 
transactions were made on Miss Bs mobile device, needed her mobile banking pin to logon 
and also her card to complete the first transaction, all of which Miss B has said were only 
available to her, the investigator concluded the transactions must have been authorised by 
Miss B.
Miss B disagreed with the outcome. She said her card is linked to her phone and believes 
her account details have been hacked. The complaint has therefore come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant law 
and regulations; the regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice; and, where 
relevant, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant times.
Of particular relevance to my decision are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), 
which apply to transfers like the ones made from Miss Bs account. Ive considered the 
relevant provisions of the PSRs alongside the contractual terms and conditions of Miss Bs 
account.
Taking those into account there are two key questions relevant to my consideration: 
1. Were the transactions authorised by Miss B; and 
2. If they werent, did Miss B fail with intent or gross negligence to comply with her 
obligations under the PSRs, to comply with the terms and conditions of the account, or to 
keep the personalised security details safe? 
If I find Miss B made, or otherwise authorised the transactions, I dont need to consider point 
2 above.
Barclays has provided all login records for Miss Bs mobile banking. These show that Miss 
Bs account was logged into using the same device that has been registered to Miss Bs 
profile and been used for genuine payments and logins  and also is linked to the same 
telephone number that both Barclays and our service hold for Miss B.
For each disputed transaction, Barclays has demonstrated that Miss Bs mobile banking was 
accessed using a pin number that should only be known to Miss B, and that Miss B has 
advised she hasnt shared with any third parties. The first two payments were also made 
using the same IP address and internet provider that Miss B has previously made regular 
undisputed payments from.
For the first disputed transaction, as the payment was made to a new payee, Barclays also 
wouldve required confirmation of Miss Bs card details, which were correctly entered.
Therefore, it seems these payments must have been made from a location known well to 
Miss B, with access to her phone, her banking passcode and her bank card. Miss B has said 
that none of these things had been compromised  therefore even if I assume her phone 
was hacked, which seems a less likely option, it doesnt explain how the hacker would have 
access to her full card details and banking passcode. 
Having reviewed Miss Bs bank statements I can see she had a healthy account balance 
before the loan company credit was received. It seems unusual behaviour for a fraudster to 
risk taking out a loan, rather than simply access the money Miss B already had in her 
account, and then to not attempt further withdrawals after the loan money had been 
withdrawn. I can also see that after the first disputed transaction had been made, Miss B 
appears to have logged on to her mobile banking (again from the same IP address as the 
disputed transactions) and made a undisputed payment to an existing payee  but failed to 
raise at this time that an unrecognised payment of £2,000 had been made from her account.
In summary, Miss B hasnt provided a plausible explanation for how a fraudster would be 
able to access her online banking, or hack her mobile phone. It therefore seems to me 
beyond reasonable doubt that the transactions in dispute were carried out by Miss B or 
someone she authorised to do so on her behalf. There are situations where we might expect 
a bank to reimburse its customers where theyve been the victim of an authorised push 
payment (APP) scam. However, Miss B has maintained throughout the complaint that this 
isnt the case here and that she didnt authorise the transactions. In the circumstances of this 
complaint, as Miss Bs submissions dont align with other available evidence, I dont consider 
it would be fair or reasonable to ask Barclays to refund the transactions on this basis, and so 
I make no award against it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman