DRN-3344146
The complaint
Mr H complains that he was misled into entering into a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS). 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr H entered into a hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a used car. It 
was just over four years old at the time. Mr H says that, before he agreed to take the car, he 
asked the dealership if it would replace the cambelt and water pump. Both would be 
recommended service items the following year and would cost around £650 to replace. The 
dealership declined to do so. Mr H says he was not told that there was no need to replace 
them as the car came with a two-year service plan. 
The service plan was an agreement between Mr H and VWFS, made on the same day as 
the hire purchase agreement. It was not priced separately from the hire purchase 
agreement. 
When, in June 2021, Mr H arranged for the car to be serviced, he found out that the cambelt 
and water pump were not standard service items and that he would have to pay for them 
separately. He also noted that three tyres were worn and that the front brake discs needed 
replacing. He complained to VWFS. It said however that his concerns were not directly 
related to its own actions and referred Mr H back to the dealer. It also gave referral rights to 
this service. 
Mr H complained to this service and one of our investigators considered his complaint. He 
thought however that the cambelt and water pump fell with in the exclusions in the service 
plan  that is, they were not covered by it. He was not persuaded that Mr H had been told 
they were. He did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  
Mr H did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs complaint concerns statements he says were made by the dealership, the extent of 
the service plan, and matters around the quality of the car. In making statements about the 
car and the service plan, the dealership was acting as agent for VWFS. The service plan 
was not priced separately from the hire purchase agreement and was, therefore, financed by 
credit provided by VWFS. And VWFS, as supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring it 
was of satisfactory quality. For these reasons, I do not agree that Mr Hs concerns were 
matters for the dealership alone; they were also matters for VWFS. 
Ill consider first whether the cambelt and water pump were covered by the service 
agreement. That agreement was intended to cover standard service items and listed, at 
clause 4, items that were not covered. That listed included non-standard service work and, 
expressly, the cars cambelt. I do not believe that replacing a water pump is standard work 
for a service. I am satisfied therefore that these items were not in fact covered under the 
service agreement. 
I must therefore consider whether Mr H was led to believe they were covered and, if so, what 
he would have done had he not been told that. The dealership says that it did not tell Mr H 
that they would be covered. Given in particular that one of the items  the cambelt  was 
expressly excluded in the service agreement, I think it unlikely that Mr H was told the 
opposite. In order for me to make a finding that Mr H was told something completely different 
from the written agreement, I would need to see very persuasive evidence. I do not believe I 
can say here therefore that Mr H was told that these items would be covered by the service 
agreement. 
I note as well what he has said about the tyres and front brakes. Having regard to the age 
and mileage of the car and the use that Mr H had by then had of it, I think these are items of 
wear and tear which might be expected. I dont believe they show that the car was not of 
satisfactory quality.         
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman