DRN-4176583
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt with a claim 
he made under his home insurance policy for damage caused by an escape of water. 
What happened
In October 2022 Mr M made a claim for water damage to his home. His insurer Admiral 
instructed an assessor to visit and identify the cause of damage. 
Admiral declined the claim in full - but on second review accepted Mr Ms claim in part. 
In January 2023 Mr M complained to Admiral. He was unhappy with the delay in arranging 
for an assessor to visit his home. He didnt think it was fair for Admiral to apply its contractor 
rates to a quote for the agreed works in order to settle the claim. He said Admiral had quoted 
an incorrect excess amount to him. Mr M wanted Admiral to meet his claim in full. 
In April 2023 Admiral agreed it had caused a delay in appointing a surveyor. It said this was 
due to a backlog it had at the time. For the delay it paid Mr M £100 compensation. 
Outside of this delay, Admiral said it had dealt with Mr Ms claim fairly and in line with the 
policy. It explained that it hadnt received a quote from Mr M for the agreed works - but for all 
of the works. So in the absence of an updated quote, it had reasonably offered a settlement 
which was in line with the assessors scope of works (SOW). 
Admiral couldnt find any evidence it had quoted the wrong excess fee to Mr M. As the quote 
for the SOW was a little over the correct excess due, Admiral said it would await Mr Ms 
decision as to whether he wanted to claim against his policy. But it said it couldnt leave the 
claim open indefinitely.
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator thought 
Admiral had acted reasonably, so she didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr M disagrees and so he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy with Admiral says it will cover Mr M for damage caused by an escape of water. 
Admirals cover is limited to the areas of Mr Ms home where the damage was caused by the 
insured event. 
Mr M claimed for damage to a spare bedroom ceiling and his hallway ceiling. He said both 
ceilings were damaged by a leak from a neighbours bathroom above. 
Following the assessors visit, they concluded that none of the damage had been caused by 
a recent leak, but was old damage from a leak several years ago. 
However, Mr M provided further information to challenge this decision - and on further review 
the assessor said the damage to Mr Ms spare bedroom ceiling was valid. However, the 
assessor remained of the view that damage to the hallway ceiling wasnt caused by a recent 
leak. 
Mr Ms daughter has provided a copy of a photo of the hallway ceiling she says she took the 
day after the leak. She says the reason why she took this photo was because there were 
new cracks which had appeared around the spotlight.  
In Admirals response to Mr Ms complaint, it said that if Mr M provided evidence of a similar 
nature to the assessors to show the damage to the hallway was caused by the recent leak, 
it would consider this. I understand Mr M has concerns about the reliability of the assessors 
opinion, given they initially rejected his claim in full and then changed their mind. 
However, I can see that the assessor noted there was a stone wall in between the spare 
bedroom and the hallway - being a reason why they didnt take the view that the damage to 
the hallway ceiling was caused by the same event. 
I cant see that Mr M provided evidence from a suitably qualified professional to support his 
claim for the hallway ceiling damage. So I cant say that Admirals decision not to include the 
hallway damage was unreasonable. 
I havent seen anything to show me that Admiral quoted an incorrect excess to Mr M for his 
claim. Under the policy, it says Mr M will need to pay an excess of £1,000 for this claim. 
Mr M submitted a quote from a contractor for repair works which gave a total sum - so it 
wasnt possible to tell what the costs were for the agreed works and for the non-agreed 
works (the hallway). In May 2023 Mr M provided a word document with a breakdown of the 
works that have been completed to his home. 
Admiral asked Mr M to provide an updated quote from his preferred contractor to exclude the 
damage to the hallway - as it wasnt covered under the claim. As it didnt receive one, it 
provided a settlement offer of £1,067.82. This was based on its commercial rates for the 
agreed works carried out by the assessor. As Admiral explained, the rates it pays is 
commercially sensitive information and so cannot be shared with customers. We arent able 
to interfere with an insurers commercially sensitive information about how much it pays 
approved contractors. 
Mr M was given the choice to have an approved contractor carry out the agreed works. But 
in April 2023 Mr M told us hed arranged for the works to be completed. He said it cost him 
£2,274 to have the works to the spare bedroom ceiling and the hallway done. He says the 
contractor told him that £290 of the total was for the repair works to the hallway. 
Mr M contacted Admiral on 10 October 2022 to report the damage. According to Admirals 
notes, it advised Mr M of the excess of £1,000 that would be due if he wished to claim. On 
24 October 2022 Mr M advised Admiral he wanted to proceed with his claim. 
The approved assessor attended Mr Ms property on 8 November 2022. As Admiral accept it 
caused a delay and has paid a compensation award of £100 for this delay, I think it has been 
reasonable here. The compensation Admiral paid is in line with awards we give in similar 
circumstances. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M and Ive no doubt that dealing with the damage from an escape 
of water has caused significant disruption and upheaval. But from what Ive seen, I think 
Admiral dealt with Mr Ms complaint in a reasonable way. This means I dont think it needs to 
do any more. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman