DRN-3275882
The complaint
A Company that Ill refer to as E has complained that American International Group UK 
Limited (AIG) unfairly declined a claim under its business protection insurance policy.
Mrs B, a director of E brings the complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
E held a business protection insurance policy with AIG. E claimed on the business 
interruption insurance section of the policy to cover losses arising from its closure as a result 
of the national Government-imposed lockdown in November 2020.
AIG declined the claim as they said Covid-19 wasnt covered under the terms of the policy. E 
didnt agree with AIG. It said the wording of the policy, specifically the extension for 
Prevention of Access provided cover. 
E complained to AIG, but they explained that Covid-19 is a communicable disease and 
these are specifically excluded in the policy wording. They did however note an error in the 
policy schedule which referred to an extension for specified illness, which wasnt included in 
the policy, but noted that this didnt mean there was cover available under the policy.
E wasnt happy with AIGs response so brought the complaint to our service. It also noted 
that it hadnt been informed of changes to its policy wording at renewal and said that AIGs 
error meant that it should at least have its premium refunded.
Our investigator considered Es complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. He said that, 
while he sympathised with Es situation, he didnt think there was cover available under the 
policy. 
E didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It referred to the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) test case on Business Interruption Insurance and said it wasnt kept 
updated by AIG. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on E, but I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why. 
E is looking to claim on its business interruption insurance policy. These types of policies 
offer protection from risks common to business, but there are a range of policies on the 
market covering a range of different risks. When considering whether AIG acted fairly in 
declining Es claim, the starting point is to consider the specific policy it took out. 
Communicable disease
Under the heading Business interruption Exclusions it says:
We will not pay for any loss, cost, damage or expense, arising out of, attributable 
to or occurring concurrently or in any sequence with a communicable disease.
For the avoidance of doubt no extension of cover, additional coverage or 
exception to any exclusion or other coverage grant shall afford any coverage that 
would otherwise be excluded through this exclusion. For further avoidance of 
doubt loss, cost, damage or expense includes any costs to clean-up, de-toxify, 
remove, monitor or test: (1) for a communicable disease; or (2) any tangible or 
intangible property insured by this policy which has been affected by such 
communicable disease.
 
The policy defines communicable disease as:
Communicable Disease means any infectious or contagious substance:
a) including but not limited to a virus, bacterium, parasite or other organism or 
any mutation thereof, whether deemed living or not; and
b) regardless of the method of transmission, whether direct or indirect, including 
but not limited to, airborne transmission, bodily fluid transmission, transmission 
from or to any surface or object, solid, liquid or gas or between humans, animals 
or from any animal to any human or from any human to any animal; that can 
cause or threaten damage to human health or human welfare or causes or 
threatens damage, deterioration, loss of value, marketability or loss of use to 
tangible or intangible property insured under this policy.
I think Covid-19 would be considered a communicable disease and therefore 
interruption to Es business caused by Covid-19 would be specifically excluded by the 
policy. 
Prevention of Access
E said that the extension for prevention of access should provide cover for its claim. This 
provides cover in the event of:
Damage to property in the vicinity of the premises or the property, which 
prevents or hinders the use of the premises or the property or access thereto, 
regardless of whether the premises or property is damaged
The wording of this extension requires there to be Damage, which is defined in the policy 
as:
 physical loss or destruction of or physical damage to tangible property
For this to provide cover the interruption to Es business would need to be due to damage to 
tangible property in the vicinity of its premises which prevented or hindered access to Es 
premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused damage to property in 
the vicinity of Es premises  so I dont think this section covers Es claim.
E has referred to an extension for non-damage prevention of access but there isnt an 
extension for this in its policy. Moreover, the policy also has the exclusion for losses arising 
from a communicable disease referred to above which would therefore exclude any cover for 
Covid-19.Specified Disease
AIG has identified that Es policy schedule incorrectly refers to an extension for specified 
disease. The policy booklet doesnt contain a specified disease extension and AIG has noted 
that it issued a Notice to Policyholders on 5 August 2020, which was included in the 
renewal documents. It stated:
The specified disease extension under the Business Interruption section of your 
policy has been removed (some cover has been retained for Murder, Suicide or 
Defective Sanitation only).
A communicable disease exclusion will apply under each of the Material 
Damage, Business Interruption, Money and Personal Assault, Specified All Risks, 
Goods in Transit and Equipment Breakdown Sections.
The schedule also says that a new policy booklet will be issued, and the renewal documents 
make it clear that the statement of fact, policy schedule and policy wording all need to be 
read together. Ive also noted that the wording of the extension for specified diseases in the 
previous policy didnt provide cover for Covid-19. 
Im satisfied that AIG made an error when drafting the policy schedule in referring to 
specified disease cover as the policy doesnt list any specified diseases that are covered. 
I think its sufficiently clear that the policy doesnt include specified disease cover. So, taking 
everything into account, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to find that cover 
existed for Covid-19.
Other issues
E has referred to the FCA Business Interruption Insurance test case. I can see that AIG 
wrote to E in December 2020 to tell it about the test case and to say that they didnt think Es 
claim was one that would be impacted by the outcome. Whether a claim should be paid still 
depends on the wording of the policy. In this particular case, the test case doesnt impact the 
outcome of Es claim. 
E is also unhappy that it took AIG until February 2021 to provide an outcome to its claim. Its 
unclear why it took AIG this long to give E an answer to its claim. But even if I found that AIG 
took too long to deal with the claim, in order for me to make any award for this Id need to be 
satisfied that this caused E inconvenience or loss. In this particular case I dont think any 
delays would warrant compensation and I havent seen anything to indicate that they caused 
E any loss. 
E said it wasnt sent policy documents or told about changes in its cover when this policy 
was sold. However, the policy was sold by a broker and I understand that complaint has 
been dealt with separately. 
So, while Im sorry to hear about the financial impact the Government-imposed lockdown 
had on E, having taken all of this into account and having considered the remaining terms of 
the policy, I dont think AIG acted unfairly in declining its claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman