DRN-2898254
The complaint
 Miss M complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home (LAH), lent to her 
irresponsibly. She complained to LAH in March 2020.
What happened
Using information from LAH here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Loan Approved Amount 33 week term each. 
amount each weekRepaid
1 14 March 2018 £300 £15 22 August 2018
2 22 August 2018 £500 £25 20 February 2019
3 20 February 2019 £500 £25 3 July 2019
4 18 December 2019 £500 £25 o/s
Our understanding is that loan 4 remains unpaid. LAHs response to the provisional decision 
(referred to below) does indicate that Miss M still owes money on Loan 4. 
Miss M has explained that she lived alone with her children who were very young at the time.
She applied for Universal Credit (UC) and when it was paid to her, it included the rent money
of around £575 (£557 in the UC) a month which had to be paid for out of that UC money. On
other occasions when she was working and earning a salary, her UC credits may not have
included the rent money but still it had to be paid by her. And sometimes she received a
concession for Council tax but when working she had to pay it. Miss M says that LAHs 
agent has missed these details for some of the loans.
Miss M says that she did not have a partner and no-one assisted her with the bills. This only
appears to be relevant for loans 1 and 2. In the copy application forms and creditworthiness
assessment documents I have been sent by LAH, for Loans 1 and 2 the notes indicated that
the marital status was Living together and she was not working. Miss M says that the agent
stated this to make the loan appear more affordable. For loans 3 and 4 her status was
single and a part-time worker.
LAH was asked about this and has said that the agents notes suggest that a partner paid
towards the groceries at the time Miss M applied for loan 4.
And LAH added: The Agent will have completed the Affordability Assessment based on the
information provided by the customer at the time of each loan issue. There is no evidence to
suggest the Agent manipulated this information as the assessment does record how many
attempts are made for the assessment to be accepted. On all 4 assessments, it does
confirm each was successful on its first submission.
LAHs final response letter dated 29 May 2020 does not uphold her complaint about any of
the loans and says that the complaint investigator had checked with LAHs Credit Risk
department to enquire about any credit checks and bureau data we may still hold. This
confirmed there was no adverse data recorded against you. Also, the data shows you had
not registered on the insolvency register, entered into an IVA or been declared bankrupt.
LAH was asked to send the credit search results carried out and on which it relies in its FRL.
Its reply was Please see Bureau Data tab on attached spreadsheet. But I dont think that
this was attached as Ive not seen anything that resembles this description. As its a
provisional decision LAH has time to send it to us.
One of our adjudicators thought that LAH did not have to put things right for Miss M. She
disagreed with that opinion and the complaint was passed to me for a decision. Having
reviewed the complaint, I asked our adjudicator to obtain more information from both parties.
Miss M explained more details and sent to us her credit file. LAH explained a few points and 
sent some documents which were captured by the agent at the time of the applications on a 
hand-held device. I had Miss Ms bank statements for March 2018, August 2018, 
February 2019 and December 2019. 
So I issued a provisional decision dated 11 June 2021, in which I gave reasons as to why 
I planned to uphold Miss Ms complaint in relation to each of her loans. LAH has agreed to it 
and has calculated some figures for the redress. Miss M agreed with my provisional 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss M could
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers
income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the
consumer. These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time 
(reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had 
become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
LAH was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further
in order to do that.
I have carefully reconsidered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
My provisional findings are set out below and are repeated here and form part of this final 
decision. Considering the responses from Miss M and from LAH  both have agreed to it  
then I see no reason to depart from these findings. My decision is that I uphold Miss Ms 
complaint for each of her four loans with LAH. 
My provisional decision findings dated 11 June 2021 
Loan 1
In March 2019 the loan application details supplied by LAH show that the reason for Miss M
needing the loan was subsistence. This reason for asking for credit ought to have alerted
the agent to the fact that Miss M was applying for credit for basic needs and this was likely to
have been or included priority bills.
As I have explained above, Miss M says that mistakes had been made in relation to the
entries including those surrounding her rent payments and the contribution to bills by another
individual. LAH has sent to me screenshots of what its agent captured to verify some of the
details at the time. For Loan 1 it was a photo of the first page of a UC letter dated
August 2017. It is clear that there were five pages to that letter to which the agent had
access, and the letter says that a table was provided which explained how the UC had been
worked out.
My views are that the UC letter had details about what the UC payment covered which, in
my view, would have included rent. I say this because I have also seen a screenshot of
Miss Ms UC entitlements broken down into sections and that showed that she received just
over £557 of her £575 rent with a note saying You will have to pay your housing to your
landlord.
And I am aware that rent is not paid directly to landlords. I have seen a copy of Miss Ms
bank statements and I can see £575 was paid to a letting agent on 12 March 2018 by
standing order, and so it was a regular payment.
And a note next to the Expenditure section of the LAH Lending Assessment form does
show rent as £0 and a note next to it which said claim reference 84811. Miss M has seen
these Lending Assessment documents and has explained that this reference related to a
council tax concession claim and not the rent. And from the screenshot of the UC letter its
clear that the UC reference is quite different. So, its the wrong information entered into the
rent section. And these points all do indicate that income and rent were discussed between
Miss M and the agent at the time. But I cant see why the agent would have inserted an
incorrect claim reference when he clearly had access to Miss Ms UC letter.In relation to the payments by a partner, then at most these were noted in the Lending
Assessments as the partner paying half of a £10 a week electricity bill (so, £5) and half of
the food costs (around £20). So that contribution, if made, would have been relatively small.
I note what Miss M says about her being single at the time, but I do not have enough
evidence to be able to make a finding about whether Miss M lived alone or whether the
agent understood that another individual helped towards the bills. So, on current evidence,
I cant say much more.
LAH has said it had no concerns arising from its credit search, but I am yet to see what
LAHs credit search results were. So, I have looked at Miss Ms credit file and even
considering that business searches can reveal different information to an individuals
personal credit file report (but not always), still I note that Miss M had the following:
- late water bill payments at the end of 2017 and early 2018
- in arrears on a communications/broadband provider account
- a default in relation to her landline provider
- her bank had issued a default for her current account in February 2017
- a debt collection agency had issued two defaults in February and in August 2017
And I find it difficult to believe that a credit search by LAH would not have revealed these or
at least some of them. So, I am sceptical about LAHs statement in its FRL that there was
no adverse data recorded against you.
Overall I think that the mistake on the rental payments were fatal to this creditworthiness
assessment as it was an additional £132 a week which had to be paid. On those figures then
LAH would have seen that the loan was unaffordable to Miss M.
I am planning to uphold loan 1. The information I have noticed and to which I have referred
will be relevant going forward to loan 2.
Loan 2
Miss M has told us that in March 2018 she received a County Court Judgment (CCJ) for a
£1,852 debt which, according to Miss Ms recent credit report, remains unsatisfied. So,
I think its highly likely that when she applied for loan 2 in August 2018, any credit search
carried out by LAH would have revealed this CCJ. Its a matter of public record and in the
same way that insolvency and bankruptcy records are public, and are elements about which
LAH has said it did carry out a search in relation to Miss M, then I think that this would have
been revealed.
I make a provisional finding that it likely was, and if thats the case then I think that LAH
ought to have gone further and carried out a full financial review on Miss Ms circumstances
to ensure that she was able to afford loan 2 for £500. It was a higher amount than the £300
Miss M had asked for loan 1 and when she applied for loan 2 she had not repaid loan 1.
One way to do that full review could have been to review Miss Ms bank statements. I do not
have the bank statements for the month leading up to loan 2, but I do have one for the whole
month of August 2018 which gives me a good idea as to what Miss Ms situation was around
that time. I say this because the July 2018 statement likely revealed much the same entries
to those I have seen in the August 2018 ones.
And I repeat the points I made about Miss Ms personal credit file and the adverse
information revealed by it as they would have been relevant to the August 2018, loan 2,
application.Reviewing the August 2018 bank statements, I can see Miss Ms rent payment of £575
debited the account which demonstrates that it was paid. Whereas the LAH agents Lending
Assessment notes show the same as the previous loan: that rent was £0 and Claim
Reference 84811 and for Council Tax the agent has noted this C/Tax Benefit reference. So
again I think that these were incorrect details in the Lending Assessment documents.
The August 2018 bank statements also reveal details which dovetail with Miss Ms credit file
report. Additional payments showing on her bank statements not included in the LAH
Lending Assessment form for loan 2 included DVLA monthly payment of £27.56, water bills
of £38.04 a month, insurance of £97.64 (possibly car insurance), and three, possibly four,
debt collection payments. And having read her credit file its clear that Miss M had taken a
finance loan which had commenced July 2018 which was due to be four payments of £111.
Overall I think that the mistake on the rental payments was fatal to this creditworthiness
assessment as it was an additional £133 a week which had to be paid.
On LAHs own net disposable income figure (it shortens this to NDI) for loan 2 of £157
(which appears to have included the scheduled loan 2 repayment of £25 a week), the
additional £133 a week (£575 a calendar month), would have left Miss M with £24 a week
left over. This would have been too low an amount to be a responsible lending decision. I am
planning to uphold Miss Ms complaint about loan 2.
Loan 3
The situation for loan 3 had altered in that Miss M was earning and was receiving UC as
well. And with the CCJ history then I would have expected the same sort of checks to carry
out a full financial review to have been done for loan 3. I dont think that LAH did this and so
I have reviewed Miss Ms bank statement for February 2019 and I think its highly likely that
her statement for the month leading up to her application for loan 3 would have been similar.
Still I am of the view that her expenditure and credit situation leads me to much the same
conclusion as I did for loan 2  that she was not able to afford loan 3. A simple example to
point out is some additional expenditure Miss M was having to shoulder. When young
children get to a certain age then free nursery care (for a limited number of hours a week)
ends, and as often happens with working single mothers, to facilitate her ability to work, the
youngsters would have had to attend nursery or have some other child care if they were not
at school. I have seen that Miss M had nursery fees of £719 which likely were monthly. So,
most of what Miss M earned (£757) went on nursery fees: a fact I do not find surprising.
Many other entries on her statement shows me that she paid all the bills, including full rent
and monthly council tax, and was using other high cost lenders and still was in repayment
plans for what must have been historic loans. I am planning to uphold Miss Ms complaint
about loan 3.
Loan 4
Even LAHs own calculations have led it to show in its records that Miss Ms NDI was
£34.69. This clearly was too low an amount for a responsible lending decision on loan 4. And
as I have demonstrated in this decision, the full financial review I would have expected LAH
to have carried out for loan 4 would have revealed loan 4 to be unaffordable as well. I am
planning to uphold Miss Ms complaint about loan 4.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress LAH should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what mighthave happened had it had never lent to Miss M as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly
there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there,
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, they may
have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or
indeed a different application (i.e. for more, or less borrowing). But even if she had done
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is
impossible to now accurately reconstruct.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Miss M in a
compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable
to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options.
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce LAHs liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right. 
what Loans at Home has to do
Loan 4 remains outstanding and LAH ought to do as follows for loans 1 to 4:
refund all interest and charges Miss M paid on loans 1 to 3;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information about loans 1 to 3 from Miss Ms credit file and the 
same for loan 4 once its been repaid if it has not been paid already.
For loan 4  as Miss M still owes Loans at Home the principal balance she borrowed on 
loan 4, Loans at Home should remove all the interest and charges applied to the outstanding 
balance for loan 4. It should then re-work the account as if all payments made by Miss M 
went to towards the principal. But importantly, Loans at Home needs to make sure that 
Miss M doesnt repay more than the principal amount borrowed.
If after doing this Miss M hasnt repaid the principal she borrowed Loans at Home can
deduct this from the remainder of the redress sum. If, Miss M has already paid enough to
repay the principal then any overpayment should be refunded to her with 8% simple* interest
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
And if Loans at Home no longer owns this debt, and it wants to make a deduction due to the
amount owed, then it should buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled to make any
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Miss M. Any set-off needs to be carried out
after tax has been deducted.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans at Home to take off tax from this interest. Loans at
Home must give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint for the reasons I have outlined above, 
and I direct that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at Home, does as I have outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman