DRN-3996300
The complaint
Mr R complained that The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited declined to meet a claim
under his income protection policy.
What happened
The facts are well known to the parties and not in dispute, so I wont repeat them in detail
here. In summary Mr R made a claim under his policy following a slip on ice in January 2022
whereby he injured his back.
Shepherds Friendly didnt feel he met the policy definition for a claim to be met. Mr R then
provided further information which persuaded our investigator that the complaint should be
upheld  but Shepherds Friendly didnt change its mind.
I issued a provisional decision on 19 January 2023 and said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am minded to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Rs policy provides that benefit will be paid if the policyholder is incapacitated. It says:
2.1 For the purpose of the contract between you and us, you suffer from an incapacity and
are incapacitated if you are not fit and able to work in your own occupation as a result of
physical or mental illness or injury, provided that such physical or mental illness or injury is
not due to a pre-existing condition.
2.4 Fit and Able  Whether you are fit and able to work in your own occupation is a question
of fact. We will determine this question by reference to the evidence you provide and in
consultation with any medical and employment advisors who we may choose to instruct.
2.5 Own occupation is the occupation you are engaged in and from which you derive an
income at the start of your incapacity.
You will need to establish any physical or mental illness or injury to our satisfaction.
In January 2022 Mr R was signed off work by his GP due to back pain. However he declined
to have an x-ray at that time and was awaiting physiotherapy. As there was a lack of
evidence as to whether his back pain incapacitated Mr R from his occupation throughout the
deferred period his claim was not admitted.
Mr R felt that Shepherds Friendly should have obtained a medical report however his policy
does clearly show that the onus is on him to prove his claim. So I understand why
Shepherds Friendly declined his claim originally and I dont think that was unfair.
However in September 2022 Mr R attended a physiotherapist who identified all Mr Rs
lumbar spine movements were severely limited by pain. They said he was unable to sit for
longer than 15 minutes maximum and standing was limited to 10 minutes due to pain.
Mr R works as a sales manager and his employer has confirmed his role involves driving to
visit clients all over the country. It has also confirmed that he covers around 55,000 miles per
year.
It is unfortunate that Mr R wasnt able to see a physiotherapist earlier. I can see that an NHS
referral was made by his GP in May 2022 but due to delays he wasnt given an appointment
and eventually decided to pay privately. In September last year he did see a physiotherapist
who reported that in their opinion his condition meant he was unable to perform his
occupation at that time.
Shepherds Friendly didnt believe that the physiotherapists evidence was enough to
retrospectively support a claim from the end of the deferred period. I understand the
concern. But Mr R was also being signed off by his GP and it was hoped that the matter
would resolve with pain killers. Its clear that this didnt happen. It might have been prudent
to require imaging as part of the ongoing investigation into his symptoms  but I dont find
that the lack of such evidence means that Mr R hasnt provided enough evidence to show
his claim should now be admitted.
On the evidence before me Im satisfied that it is more likely than not that Mr R was
prevented from working in his occupation due to his back condition during the waiting period
and beyond.
For this reason I am minded to find that Shepherds Friendly should admit Mr Rs claim from
the end of his eight week waiting period. It is entitled to review the claim in order to
determine if/when Mr R became fit and able to work in his own occupation.
If Mr R continued to pay premiums, he would be entitled to have them refunded in
accordance with his policy terms.
Finally to any benefit payment that was due to Mr R before the receipt of the
physiotherapists report in September 2022 interest at 8% simple should be added from
September 2022 until settlement.
Interest should be added at 8% simple to any payments due from September 2022, from the
date they became due until settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional findings there is no need for me to revise them.
Shepherds Friendly indicated that it was in the process of requesting financial information 
from Mr Rs employers in order to identify any financial responsibility it had to meet. This is 
fair.
Putting things right
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision and adopted here I require Shepherds 
Friendly to admit Mr Rs claim from the end of his eight week waiting period. It is entitled to review the claim in order to determine if/when Mr R became fit and able to 
work in his own occupation.
If Mr R continued to pay premiums, he would be entitled to have them refunded in
accordance with his policy terms.
Finally to any benefit payment that was due to Mr R before the receipt of the
physiotherapists report in September 2022 interest at 8% simple should be added from
September 2022 until settlement.
Interest should be added at 8% simple to any payments due from September 2022, from the
date they became due until settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require The Shepherds Friendly Society 
Limited to put things right as indicated above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman