DRN-2363211
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the service she received at a Nationwide Building Society 
(Nationwide) branch.
What happened
In July 2020 Mrs H visited a Nationwide branch to deposit a cheque. She arrived before the 
branch opened.
When staff were opening the branch doors Mrs H tried to step inside, but she was asked to 
wait until all doors were fully open before entering. Mrs H was unhappy with how she was 
spoken to, she thought the member of staff had been rude to her. She was also unhappy 
they werent wearing a name badge.
 
Mrs H went to the counter to deposit her cheque, and while she was there, she asked how 
she could raise a complaint. She says she was told by the counter staff that she could raise 
a complaint by phone, or she could do so in branch. Mrs H has said she wasnt told she 
could raise a complaint online, even though this is an option. Additionally, Mrs H said staff 
spoke about her at the counter while she was being served, which she didnt think was 
appropriate.
 
Mrs H complained about what happened. Nationwides final response letter apologised to 
her for the experience shed had in branch, and for the mis-information shed been given 
about how to raise a complaint. Nationwide said it had provided feedback to the branch and 
staff involved. But Mrs H remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service.
 
An investigator here considered Mrs Hs complaint. He said that while it seems things 
couldve gone better, he didnt think staff were intentionally rude toward Mrs H. And he 
thought the apology from Nationwide was enough to put things right. But Mrs H disagreed, 
so because an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H has said she feels she was spoken to rudely when asked to wait before entering the 
branch, which is unfortunate. But I think its a reasonable request to ask customers to wait 
until the branch doors are fully open before trying to enter. Particularly if I keep in mind the 
social distancing guidelines during the Covid-19 pandemic.
  
In her testimony, Mrs H said staff continued to talk about her at the counter. But statements 
provided by the branch describe the staff member addressing their colleague, and Mrs H, at 
the counter to apologise if they had been abrupt. And, on balance, Im more persuaded by 
this version of events, because I dont think it likely that staff wouldve been intentionally 
rude. Mrs H is also unhappy that the member of staff wasnt wearing a name badge. But 
from her own testimony Ive noted that Mrs H was given the individuals name. So I dont 
think this remains a material point.
 
Mrs H appears to have been given incorrect information about how she could make a 
complaint, and I can understand this wouldve frustrated her. But having said that, once 
Mrs H did raise a formal complaint, Ive seen that Nationwide dealt with the matter quickly. 
The day after her visit to the branch, Nationwide called, and then wrote to Mrs H, 
acknowledging that it hadnt provided a good service. Nationwide apologised for the 
experience Mrs H had in branch, and the mis-information she had been given. Ive also seen 
Nationwide took ownership of ensuring feedback was provided. So, overall, Im satisfied the 
matter was taken seriously.
Its clear the experience left Mrs H distressed and upset, and I understand her strength of 
feeling. But sometimes dealing with people can be challenging. Ive seen that Nationwide 
has issued a formal written apology to Mrs H, and has provided feedback to the branch and 
staff involved. In the overall circumstances of what happened, I think thats a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint. So I dont require Nationwide to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman