DRN-2778900
The complaint
This complaint is about a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
taken out in 1996 in connection with a joint mortgage. Mr G and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland 
plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them PPI.
What happened
Mr G and Mrs G took out a PPI policy alongside their mortgage. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy which offered accident, sickness and unemployment cover. They complain they 
didnt know PPI had been added to their mortgage account.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be rejected. Mr G and Mrs G disagreed with 
our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again.
 
I should point out here that Mr G and Mrs G have concerns that the PPI would not have 
covered them when Mr G became self-employed in 2000. However, they have complained 
the policy was mis-sold to them in 1996  so we only look at what happened on the day of 
the sale in 1996. In order to investigate a mis-sale complaint, we do not investigate any 
change in their circumstances which happened in later years.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs and Mrs Gs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland should have made Mr G and Mrs G aware they had a choice in buying the 
policy. They say they were not aware the policy had been added to their mortgage. Bank of 
Scotland says it would have given Mr G and Mrs G a choice and would have gained their 
consent before adding it to their mortgage.
Neither Bank of Scotland nor Mr G and Mrs G have any paperwork from the time of sale. I 
dont think thats surprising given that the sale took place around 25 years ago and 
businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. Because of this, Bank of Scotland 
also doesnt know how or when the PPI was sold to Mr G and Mrs G. So its asked us to 
proceed on the basis that the PPI was taken out during a meeting at the same time the 
mortgage was arranged. But because the point of sale information isnt available, it does 
mean I have limited information about the sale, so I have to base my findings on what I think 
is most likely to have happened in the circumstances. 
In order to uphold this complaint, Id need to see persuasive evidence to show that Bank of 
Scotland didnt give Mr G and Mrs G a choice when it came to the PPI. Ive thought carefully 
about what Mr G and Mrs G have said. But taking into account the time thats passed, and 
the limited information provided by both parties, I cant assume that something went wrong, 
when theres no persuasive evidence to say that something did go wrong. As a result, I dont 
uphold this complaint on this basis.
Mr G and Mrs G say they didnt receive any advice from the adviser when they took out PPI. 
Bank of Scotland says it doesnt know whether or not it gave advice, but has assumed that it 
would have recommended the PPI to Mr G and Mrs G.
 
This means that it needed to ensure that it was right for them and based on what Ive seen of 
their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. Mr G and Mrs G were eligible for the 
policy, it was affordable, and it doesnt look like they would have been affected by any of the 
significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions.
They have also told us they didnt have any savings or sick pay they could have used to 
cover the mortgage repayments if they ever fell on hard times. Having thought about what 
Mr G and Mrs G have told us about sick pay and savings, I dont think this means Bank of 
Scotland was wrong to recommend PPI. I say this because the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to the limited or statutory sick pay they would have received from their employers 
and also would have paid a benefit if either of them became unemployed. So I think the 
PPI would have been useful to Mr G and Mrs G if they ever became too unwell to work or 
lost their jobs. It also looks like it was affordable. It follows that I dont think Bank of 
Scotland was wrong to sell the PPI. 
They also said they could have relied on their family to pay their mortgage repayments. I do 
understand the point they are making, but there was no guarantee they could rely on this 
support at some unknown point of time during the full term of the mortgage. So I dont think 
this is a reason to uphold the complaint.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr G and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it could have been. But Mr G and Mrs G dont appear to have been affected by 
any of the main things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about their 
circumstances it looks like the policy could have been useful to them. So I dont think better 
information would have stopped them buying it. 
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Mr G and Mrs G. Its always difficult 
to decide a complaint on limited information. But Ive thought very carefully about what they 
and Bank of Scotland have said. And I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably 
uphold their complaint. Ive taken into account Mr Gs and Mrs Gs comments. But these 
points dont change my conclusion.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship provisions 
in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which were added to 
the Consumer Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship provisions would only apply to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Bank of Scotland has given me information that shows Mr Gs and Mrs Gs mortgage was 
taken out in 1996 and ended in 2003. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the 
unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission 
apply here.
So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr G and Mrs G paid for 
the PPI they had with their mortgage.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman