DRN-4141206
The complaint
Mr K complains about how West Bay Insurance Plc dealt with a claim on his commercial
vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K was turning right out of a side road. Mr K said the third party was indicating left to turn
into the road Mr K was exiting. Mr K said the third party drove into his van instead of turning
left into the junction. Because of this Mr K claimed on his policy with West Bay.
The third party insurer disputed Mr Ks claim and said the third party hadnt been indicating
to turn into the junction. West Bay reviewed the claim and repaired Mr Ks van. West Bay
initially tried to defend Mr Ks claim but after further consideration West Bay accepted liability
for the accident.
Mr K didnt agree and complained. He also complained about the condition in which his van
was returned to him. He said the repairs to his van hadnt been completed correctly and that
additional damage had been caused to his van when it was in for repair. Specifically, he said
the paint on his van no longer matched due to the repair, and that parts of damage hadnt
been repaired which should have been. Mr K also said his van now kept going into limp
mode and this was related to issue with the battery and Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF). Mr K
also said there were issues with the wipers and speaker on his van.
West Bay reviewed the complaint and maintained it was fair to accept liability for the
accident as there wasnt other evidence it could rely upon to support Mr Ks statement that
the third party was indicating. West Bay didnt agree it hadnt repaired Mr Ks van correctly
but did agree to repair the wipers and door speaker as a gesture of good will. In regard to
the other issues with Mr Ks van, West Bay said it wasnt responsible and Mr K hadnt
provided evidence to support his position. West Bay explained its engineer had reviewed Mr
Ks concerns with the repairs but didnt agree West Bay was responsible. However, West
Bay did offer £150 compensation for poor claim handling. Unhappy with West Bays
response, Mr K brought his complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 20 April 2023 where I said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy, like most policies we see, give West Bay the right
to take over the defence or settlement of any claim, as it sees fit. That means it might make
a decision Mr K disagrees with and not try to recover its outlay or settle a claim from the third
party or their insurer. But wed look at whether West Bay made a reasonable decision in
doing this based on the evidence it had and the circumstances of the case.
Mr K said he was exiting a side road and the third party was turning right into the road Mr K
was exiting. There was also a witness to the incident which West Bay considered, however
as the witness wasnt independent, West Bay said it couldnt use their statement. West Bay
also said, as there was no other evidence to support that the third party was indicating and
Mr K was making a higher risk manoeuvre, it didnt think this was a claim it could defend. Ive
considered whether West Bay has acted fairly in deciding the liability. As its considered the
witness statement and the circumstances of the accident along with whether the claim has
reasonable prospects of success, Im satisfied its acted fairly and reasonably.
Ive also looked at the claim handling and the condition Mr Ks van was returned to him in.
Mr K has listed multiple issues with his van. These include the paint not matching, bare
metal being left exposed, other areas of damage not repaired, door speaker not working,
washers not working, issues with the vans battery and diesel particulate filter (DPF) and
ultimately a new engine being required.
To support Mr Ks complaint hes provided a word document from a garage which says:
"We carried out diagnostic checks & diagnosed the adblue pump was 
not getting adblue through to it causing the dpf to choke. We replaced 
the dpf, adblue pump, cat, 4 injectors & body control module on the 
vehicle. All the faults in my opinion have stemmed from the vehicle being 
overpowered left idling with a battery charger connected causing the 
adblue being unable to get through to the adblue pump, therefore [sic] 
choking the dpf."
Mr K has also provided a quote to repair the paint on his van which says:
Repair offside due to poor previous repair, paint flaking and miss match
of colour
West Bay reviewed Mr Ks van and said its engineer didnt agree the paint was of a poor
repair or that it didnt match. It also said the garages comments didnt make sense as it
wasnt possible to cause damage to Mr Ks van in the way described.
Mr K has provided another report by a different mechanic which gives more detail and says
they dont agree the repairs to Mr Ks van are satisfactory. In particular, the report says the
paintwork hasnt been blended correctly, the wrong bumper has been fitted and says
overall the repairs to the paintwork arent of the required standard. In regard to the electrical
and mechanical issues it says:
"Reference is made to what causes BCM failure in hard impact collisions
such as this. Collisions and hard impact are one of the top reasons
which cause interference with the operation of the BCM and causes it to
fail. This in turn causes loose wiring, the shorting of wires and in some
cases excessive heat from the engine and damaged sensors which in
turn interfere with the operation of the BCM. Everything on the vehicle
then goes haywire which would include the vehicle over fuelling itself
and the ad blue being compromised and damaged in the process."
While Ive taken what I deem to be key parts of these reports, I would like to assure Mr K
that Ive considered them in full. However, Im not persuaded they show Mr Ks van hasnt
been repaired correctly. I say this because none of the reports Mr K has provided show the
issues with his van are related to the accident or West Bay causing further damage to his
van when in its possession. I say this because the reports are word documents and not on
headed paper, they also arent supported by pictures and explanations as to the issues on
Mr Ks van, but rather say what could happen, not what has or link it back to the accident
or West Bays handling of the claim. I understand Mr K has provided some pictures of his
van but again these pictures arent supported by an experts comments, and so Im not
persuaded they show the issues with the paint and a result of West Bays actions.
The main basis for the mechanical and electrical issues relate to Mr K saying West Bay left
his van idling while connected to a battery charger. And while Mr Ks report says this couldcause damage, it doesnt show that is what happened here. The report, as quoted above,
does say the BCM could fail due to hard impact collisions. While it does say that Im not
persuaded that means that is whats happened to Mr Ks van. I say this as the report says
thats what could happen and not what has happened.
West Bay has disputed Mr Ks reports and said the repairing garage didnt leave Mr Ks van
idling with a battery charger connected. West Bay has also said its engineers dont agree
damage could arise in that way. This is the same for the repairs to the bodywork of Mr Ks
van. West Bay said the damage to the back of the van isnt accident related and given the
impact to his van was to the front offside, this opinion doesnt seem unreasonable. West
Bay also said the repairer reviewed Mr Ks van and is of the opinion the repairs are
satisfactory. When assessing all the evidence, I have to base my decision on what I think is
most likely. And considering the reports dont show what the issues with Mr Ks van are
exactly along with an explanation as to why the repairs arent of satisfactory quality, Im not
persuaded West Bay needs to do any more than it has. Im therefore not going to tell West
Bay to do anything else.
Ive also noted though that West Bay has offered Mr K £150 for poor claim handling,
specifically related to difficulties Mr K had with contacting West Bay. When considering Mr
Ks complaint about the poor claim handling overall, Im satisfied this is a fair and
reasonable amount. So, Im not going to tell West Bay to pay any more. West Bay therefore
needs to pay this amount to Mr K if not already done so.
West Bay responded to my provisional decision. It said it didnt agree with most of the 
comments in the reports Mr K had provided. However, it did say it wasnt aware of the flaking 
paint and, as it expected any repairs to be lasting and effective, agreed to correct any flaking 
paint if it was caused by its poor repair, subject to Mr K providing evidence of this. Our 
investigator also let Mr K know this. 
Mr K responded and didnt agree with my provisional decision. He provided the 101 call he 
made to the Police at the scene of the accident. He also provided MOT history for the third 
partys car to show it hadnt been properly maintained and also raised concerns about it 
being correctly insured. Mr K quoted case law which he considered to be relevant to the 
liability of his claim. Mr K also provided a follow up report on the flaking paint on his van. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional information Mr K has provided but its not persuaded me to 
depart from my provisional findings.
Ive listened to the 101 call Mr K has provided, and while I agree it supports his version of 
the circumstances of the accident, Im not persuaded it shows West Bay acted unfairly when 
deciding liability. This is because West Bay considered Mr Ks version of events but said 
there wasnt other independent evidence to support it, and so it follows that a call recording 
confirming Mr Ks version of events doesnt persuade me that West Bay acted unfairly at the 
time. 
However, Ive also noted Mr K has provided MOT history for the third partys car alongside 
insurance records and said due to this new information he shouldnt be held liable for the 
accident. As this is new information, it wouldnt be fair for me to consider it in this decision 
without West Bay having the opportunity to consider it first. Therefore, if Mr K feels the 
condition of the third partys car means he wouldnt be liable for the accident, he should provide this to West Bay to consider. If hes unhappy with West Bays response about the 
condition of the third partys car then that would need to be considered separately to this 
decision.
Mr K has also referred to two different pieces of case law, one from 2003 which refers to 
someone exiting a side road and the other party driving down the main road indicating. In 
this case the courts decided the person exiting the side road was at fault. Mr K has said this 
case law doesnt apply to his situation and therefore said the second piece of case law is 
more applicable. In the second case law, from 1985, it refers to someone exiting a side road 
and the other party driving down the main road indicating. In this case the court found in 
favour of the person exiting the side road. While Ive considered these its not persuaded me 
West Bay acted unfairly at the time when assessing the circumstances of the accident. I say 
this because one case supports Mr Ks position and the other doesnt. Ive also noted the 
more recent case law Mr K provided is the one which doesnt support that he wasnt at fault 
for the accident. As its more recent case law, Im satisfied its more likely to be the relevant 
legal position. Im therefore not persuaded West Bay acted unreasonably when it assessed 
the liability for the accident. 
Finally, Ive also considered the poor quality of repairs aspect. Mr K has provided another 
report on the paintwork on his van. And in this report, it does go into detail about why the van 
hasnt been painted correctly and what needs to be done to correct it. While this report is 
more persuasive than the previous report, its not supported by photos of the areas of poor 
repair. Furthermore, West Bay has already agreed to remedy the paint flaking if it relates to 
the repair it did. As West Bay has agreed to review the paint flaking and correct it if its 
related to the area of the van it painted. Im satisfied thats a fair and reasonable outcome to 
Mr Ks concerns with the paint work on his van. So, Im not going to tell West Bay to do 
anything else as this is new evidence West Bay needs to be given the opportunity to 
consider first to identify if the flaking relates to the repair it did. Mr K should therefore provide 
this new information to West Bay for it to consider.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
require West Bay Insurance Plc to pay Mr K £150 for distress and inconvenience if not 
already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman