DRN-4273750
The complaint
Miss H has complained about an early repayment charge (ERC) she incurred when she 
repaid her mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
What happened
Miss H bought her property in May 2017 for £330,000, taking out a mortgage with Halifax to 
fund the purchase. She borrowed £155,000 on a repayment basis over a 23-year term, and 
the mortgage offer said the interest rate was fixed at 1.94% until 31 August 2022, with an 
ERC for that same period.
I understand that in June 2021 Miss H bought a new property, funded by way of a new 
mortgage also with Halifax. Miss H put the property this complaint relates to on the market 
and moved into the new property.
On 26 August 2022 Miss H sold this property for £412,500 and redeemed the mortgage. As 
this was before the end of the stated ERC period she paid an ERC of around £2,400.
Miss H phoned Halifax about the ERC on 31 August 2022, and at that time it referred the 
matter for an appeal against the ERC that had been charged. When that appeal was 
declined this was raised as a formal complaint. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint, saying the end date for the ERC was in the mortgage 
offer, and Miss Hs solicitor had received various redemption statements all detailing the 
ERC. Unhappy with that Miss H referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
One of our Investigators looked at the complaint. She said because Halifax hadnt done 
anything wrong, she couldnt ask it to refund the fee. She said details of the ERC were set 
out in the original mortgage offer and the annual mortgage statements and were also 
explained in the redemption statements that were issued to Miss Hs solicitor.
As Miss H didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Miss H feels very strongly about this, and I thank her for the frankness and 
detail of her submissions. Shes clearly been through  and is still going through - some very 
difficult times, with some significant health challenges. I wont detail everything that shes 
told us here to protect her privacy, however I can assure Miss H that Ive read and 
understood everything and taken it all into account.
The ERC wasnt a penalty as that has a distinct meaning in law; its a contractual term that 
applies where there is a breach of contract. But when Miss Hs mortgage was repaid, there 
was no breach of contract. Thats because the contract allowed for the mortgage to be 
repaid if Miss H paid an ERC.
Im satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the mortgage offer in a way that should 
have been readily understandable to Miss H; certainly, the information about the ERC was 
set out in a manner that met the regulators requirements. So Im persuaded Miss H knew  
or at least should have known  how much shed have to pay if she repaid the mortgage on 
or before 31 August 2022.
In terms of the length of the fixed rate some lenders offer rates for a fixed period (for 
example, for 60 monthly payments) whereas others offer them until a set end date (for 
example, until 31 August 2022). Both are acceptable, and both would be considered to be a 
five-year fixed rate. The mortgage offer set out which this was, that is it was a fixed rate until 
a set end date of 31 August 2022, and that is the contract Miss H entered into. It may be, 
due to her recent health concerns, Miss H didnt recall that, but I cant hold Halifax liable for 
that as the contract was clearly and correctly described at the time she entered into it.
The information was also reiterated in each of the annual mortgage statements that were 
issued, the last of those (before redemption) being issued on 2 May 2022. That said, Early 
repayment charges are payable on this account until 31 Aug 2022 and provided a monetary 
figure for the charge as at 30 April 2022.
That said, I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the individual circumstances of the 
complaint. The rules we operate under say that in doing that I must take into account, 
amongst other things, the relevant rules and regulations. In this case that is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business sourcebook 
(MCOB). 
MCOB includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, they say that an ERC must be able to 
be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs resulting 
from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can choose how it calculates an ERC, 
and can calculate the same level of ERC across a group of mortgages of similar type, rather 
than for individual loans. Halifax is entitled to set an ERC based not on the actual cost to it of 
Miss H ending her own mortgage early, but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of 
early termination of a group of mortgages of similar type. 
Lenders generally raise money to offer preferential rates for their mortgage customers on the 
wholesale money markets. Theres a cost to that, and its generally fixed in advance. But the 
lender expects to receive a return to outweigh those costs. If a mortgage ends early, it 
doesnt get back all the returns it expected, and so doesnt make back the costs in raising 
the funds to offer that preferential rate. 
I appreciate that Miss H was very near to the end of the tie-in period (repaying it just days 
before the end date) and that the amount of the ERC appears vastly out of proportion to that 
time remaining. But Im afraid that isnt a factor in how the ERC is calculated, nor is the 
actual cost to Halifax of this individual mortgage being repaid at the exact time it was. 
Its complex and onerous for lenders to calculate individual losses as and when individual 
customers decide to terminate their contracts early. And it isnt possible to estimate, for any 
given individual, when or if they might do so. So Halifax is allowed to project how many 
customers, on average, are likely to terminate early and, on average, at what point theyre 
likely to do so, and to apportion that cost across the mortgages in the group. For some 
individual mortgages that will end up being an over-calculation, and for others it will be an 
under-calculation. But thats allowed; Halifax doesnt have to refund the difference, but 
equally it doesnt tell a consumer to pay the difference if it goes the other way.Halifax issued various redemption statements to Miss Hs conveyancer over a two-month 
period from 23 June to 25 August, and all of those confirmed there would be an ERC of 
around £2,400 if the mortgage was redeemed on or before 31 August 2022.
Miss H has said that her conveyancer sent her a spreadsheet-style statement showing the 
amount owed to Halifax, in the context of the other credits and debits associated with the 
sale, but that she was unaware that figure included an ERC. Shes said she had no reason 
to ask the conveyancer about a potential ERC because she was nearly three months past 
the five-year anniversary of her taking out the mortgage.
But her conveyancer had received more than one redemption statement from Halifax and 
they all clearly stated Miss H would be charged an ERC of around £2,400 if she repaid the 
mortgage on or before 31 August 2022 so I would have expected her conveyancer to have 
queried that with her. 
Unfortunately, much of what Miss H has said relates to assumptions she made, but because 
she didnt have any contact with Halifax it didnt have a chance to correct her. Had she made 
contact with Halifax at any point in the months before the mortgage was redeemed, Ive no 
reason to believe Halifax wouldnt have corrected the misconception. 
Halifaxs only responsibility here, in the absence of any contact from Miss H directly, was to 
issue factually correct redemption statements to her solicitor, which it did.
I understand this was an honest mistake that Miss H made, and I understand why she feels 
shes been treated unfairly as there were only days left. Shes said that the outcome she 
wants is within Halifaxs discretionary power to provide as a gesture of goodwill, and by 
making this as a goodwill gesture it wouldnt be setting any precedents. 
It isnt a matter of punishing Miss H as she has said, instead it is that Ive no power to make 
an award against Halifax unless I first find that the loss was incurred due to something it did 
wrong.
Were an independent and impartial service and my role is to make an award if there has 
been wrongdoing. I cant order a business to make a gesture of goodwill, instead I have to 
consider the complaint and, as Ive said, I can only order a business to do something if I am 
first satisfied that it has done something wrong, that is, if Im satisfied it caused the loss.
Having considered everything I dont order Halifax to refund the ERC (either in full or in part) 
because: 
Halifax correctly set out the ERC end date in the mortgage offer and in each of the 
annual mortgage statements that were issued to Miss H.
Halifax was entitled to charge Miss H the ERC set out in her mortgage contract when 
she repaid her mortgage early.
There was no requirement for Halifax to only charge an amount worked out based on 
Miss Hs individual mortgage and date of redemption, instead Halifax was allowed to 
charge an amount based on its pre-estimate of the costs of early termination of a group 
of mortgages of similar type.
Miss H didnt speak to Halifax in the run up to redemption to check her assumption was 
right that she wouldnt incur an ERC, so Halifax didnt have the opportunity to give her 
the correct information. The correct information was set out in the redemption statements that were issued to 
Miss Hs conveyancer. 
Whilst Ive a great deal of sympathy for Miss Hs situation, there are no grounds for me to 
order Halifax to refund the ERC (either in full or in part).
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman