DRN-3389071
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the State Bank Of India (UK) Limited, referred to as the bank or 
the business. 
In summary, Mrs D says:
She wasnt told that her deposit could mature into her Easy Access Savings Account 
(savings account) that she held with the bank. Instead, she had to provide written 
instructions with identification (ID) to transfer her funds to another bank account. 
Shes also unhappy that the process followed by the bank was different to the 
process it followed in relation to her husband (Mr D) who also wanted to withdraw his 
funds.   
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D, each held an Individual Fixed Rate Bond (the bond or the investment) 
with the bank that was due to mature in March 2021.  
I note the bank initially sent maturity letters to Mrs D and Mr D informing them that the 
deposits were due for renewal and that they needed to contact the bank to let it know what 
they wanted to do.  
In February 2021, Mrs D sent a message to the bank  through the online portal/secure 
message  requesting to withdraw her deposit upon maturity and transfer out. This may 
have been before the maturity letter. 
I note in her message to the bank Mrs D said:
Hello, my fixed rate bond matures on 16 March. As your advertised interest rate looks rather 
low (compared to some other banks) I would like to withdraw my deposit on maturity please. 
Please clarify the process. Will you send the maturing funds to my bank account with (name 
anonymised) or put the funds in my easy access savings account with SBI and then I can 
transfer it myself.
I understand that the bank called Mrs D and told her that shed need to provide instructions 
in writing to her branch, enclosing self-certified ID documents, as part of its process, in order 
to confirm her instructions.  
Mrs D wasnt comfortable sending her instructions and/or documents in the post so she said 
she would send Mr D to a branch with her instructions and copies of the appropriate 
documentation.  
Mr D subsequently visited the City of London branch and made a withdrawal request on 
behalf of himself and Mrs D. 
Unfortunately, there were issues with Mrs Ds signature so the bank couldnt proceed with 
the request immediately. Based on what it says, it seems Mrs Ds signature didnt match the 
signature held on file, but the bank manager  as an exception  agreed to accept an email 
attachment as proof of ID. 
Frustrated with the entire experience, Mrs D (and Mr D) complained to the business. 
In short, Mrs D said she wasnt aware of the terms and conditions which state that the 
matured funds could be paid into the banks savings account, from where she could pay the 
money into a nominated account of her choice. 
Although she (and Mr D) accept that they were paid the money on time, theyre unhappy 
about the hassle of going into branch during the height of covid-19 and being given incorrect 
advice. 
The bank separated the complaint from Mrs D and Mr D and didnt uphold either. In respect 
of Mrs Ds complaint in short it said it dealt with her reasonably. Unhappy with the banks 
response, Mrs D referred her complaint to our service.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The maturity letter made clear the need to provide timely instructions, and the 
consequences of failing to do so. It also made clear the interest rates and the 
availability of the terms and conditions online.  
As an alternative, the bank also gave Mrs D (and Mr D) the option to email, call or 
visit a branch of the bank if they didnt want to re-invest their money. 
The bank received instructions from Mrs D dated 25 February 2021 instructing it to 
pay the maturity value into an account with another business for which she provided 
the account number and sort code.  
The bank called Mrs D to discuss her providing instructions and ID documents in the 
post which she wasnt happy with. 
Whilst it mightve been easier for Mrs D to transfer her money to the banks savings 
account, she cant say the business behaved unreasonably. This option wouldnt 
have been available to her because she wasnt prepared to send documents in the 
post or visit her local bank branch. Only as an exception the bank agreed to accept 
an email attachment of documents, as proof of ID. 
From the outset, Mrs Ds instructions were to transfer her funds into a nominated 
account of her choice. 
If Mrs D had specifically asked about her options, the bank wouldve discussed the 
options available to her. 
The online terms and conditions were referred to in correspondence with Mrs D.  A 
link provided with the maturity letter  which gave access to the terms and conditions 
 made clear that Mrs D could instruct the bank to pay into the linked current or 
savings account with the bank. So, it was possible to do that providing written 
instructions were received. 
Mr D visited the branch in London on Mrs Ds behalf. But unfortunately, her signature 
didnt match the signature the bank had on file. Because of this, and because she 
wasnt present at the branch, enhanced due diligence was required to verify that 
these instructions were from her.  
Section 3 of the terms and conditions under Proof of your identity and address made 
clear what was required including requesting further information or asking the 
customer to visit their local branch. 
In his instance, the investigator cant say that the bank followed a different course of 
action with Mrs D. In the circumstances it followed a suitable and necessary course 
of action.  Despite what Mrs D says, the terms and conditions were available throughout the life 
of the investment. Mrs D had the opportunity to consult these and speak to the 
business if anything wasnt clear. 
In short, the bank didnt highlight Mrs Ds option to move her money in the Easy 
Access Savings Account because shed already decided to move her money to 
another account and sought clarity in relation to that course of action. 
Mrs D disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she made the following key observations:
If shed been told she could move her money to the savings account with the bank, 
from there she couldve moved the money to an account of her choice. 
She sent her original message before she was sent information about maturity 
options. 
Shed already gone through security in order to be able to send her message through 
the portal online and thered be more security when it came to her withdrawing her 
funds. So, in the circumstances doesnt the investigator think it wouldve been helpful 
for the bank to tell her the best way to use her online portal in order to transfer her 
money? Rather than her having to obtain copies of ID, sending letters in the post and 
her husband visiting a bank branch? 
The link referred to isnt a link to her account but to any account. 
Given the concerns about security, why did the investigator think it was ok for the 
bank to send an email without containing anything that would identify it as genuine. 
Even though they had telephone baking with the business, this still wasnt enough to 
provide maturity instructions.  
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In short, he said that whilst he had sympathy for Mrs Ds position the bank was entitled 
to have its own process. The self-certification wouldve been fine had it not been for the 
issue with the signatures.  
The general terms and conditions werent specifically for her account, but if she clicked on 
the terms and conditions and then clicked secure deposit it wouldve led to her account. 
Ultimately, it wasnt unreasonable for the bank to ask for written maturity instructions. Its 
common industry practice and he cant ask the bank to change its process.  
The bank asked for the additional ID because Mrs Ds instructions were to transfer her 
money to an external account and thats why she, and her husband who had similar 
instructions, had to go through the additional security. 
Mrs D doesnt agree with the investigators view, as she feels the business was wrong not to 
have made clear that she could transfer money into the savings account with the business. 
The initial exchange wasnt an instruction. It was how do I do this? 
The investigator explained that he understood where Mrs D was coming from, but as her 
initial contact with the bank was in relation to how she could transfer her matured funds to 
her current account  with another bank  the business did nothing by guiding her how she 
could do this.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs D says, in the circumstances 
Im unable safely to say that the bank behaved unreasonably by not drawing her attention to 
its savings account notwithstanding her initial enquiry and subsequent instructions to transfer 
her deposit into an account with another bank.  
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note that I very 
much recognise Mrs Ds strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions 
to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case  Im 
mindful theres much correspondence. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs 
D and the bank, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision 
based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
In the circumstances, I dont think the business has done anything wrong by dealing with Mrs 
Ds and Mr Ds complaints separately. Its a matter for the business how it deals with 
complaints from a couple that separately held (identical) products. Whilst there were 
overlapping issues, Im also mindful that each of their complaints had aspects that were 
unique to them, so it was probably sensible to deal with Mrs D and Mr D separately. 
In this case Im satisfied that Mrs D, notwithstanding her initial inquiry, officially instructed the 
bank to pay the maturity value into an account held with another bank. I note from the 
complaint form to our service, Mrs D also made clear that she didnt want to stay invested 
and could the bank pay the maturing funds into her nominated account. 
On balance, Im satisfied that following the initial message from Mrs D she was told about 
the process of withdrawing her deposit upon maturity, and in due course she went on to 
provide instructions of her own volition, probably in consultation with Mr D. So, in the 
circumstances I cant blame the bank for not questioning her instructions or insisting that she 
could keep her money in the banks savings account, when it was reasonably clear she 
wanted to withdraw her deposit.  
Im mindful Mrs D loosely asked if the bank would send the maturing funds to her bank 
account or put the money in its savings account but didnt make clear she had a preference. 
In other words, she gave the impression she didnt mind. I appreciate Mrs D will disagree 
with my conclusion, but I dont think its unreasonable in the circumstances.   
Therefore, on balance I dont think the bank was obliged to question Mrs Ds initial message 
or subsequent instructions which was reasonably clear and unequivocal and offer an 
alternative course of action. Im not persuaded that there was a need to. So, on balance I 
cant say that it has done anything wrong by not doing so, other than confirming that she 
needed to provide her instructions in writing with the necessary ID. I note the contents of her instruction letter dated 25 February 2021, which made clear the 
following:
I refer to my bond (details attached) which matures on 16 March. I understand that you 
need my maturity instructions in writing. I would like to withdraw my funds on maturity and for 
the monies to be sent to my current account (in my name) with (bank name anonymised):
I also attach a copy of my driving licence signed by myself, as requested.
I should be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt as soon as possible and confirm the 
position.
Im also mindful that Mrs D (and Mr D) were adamant that they didnt want to provide 
instructions/documentation in the post which probably meant their options were limited. Im 
aware the investigator says that the option to transfer to the banks savings account wouldnt 
have been available to her because she wasnt prepared to send documents in the post or 
visit her local bank branch. 
I note in the complaint form Mrs D says she had the Easy Access Savings Account which 
she and Mr D were told they had to have to make the investment. I also note that its where 
they initially paid their respective monies into before it was invested in their individual bonds. 
So, in the circumstances it could be argued that she ought reasonably to have known from 
the outset this is where she could return the matured proceeds before deciding what to do 
with it. In any event, I note it was probably going to be paid to another account as Mrs D 
wasnt pleased about the interest rates on offer. 
On balance, I think its more likely than not if Mrs D had asked the relevant questions  i.e. if 
they could use the portal or pay the money into the same account they initially paid the 
money into because thats what they preferred to do  the bank wouldve given her the 
relevant answer. 
In any event, I note the terms and conditions, available online and referred to by the 
business in its correspondence with Mrs D (and Mr D), also made clear the option to keep 
the matured proceeds with the bank. 
I note the fixed term deposit terms and condition  to which a link was provided, state:
On maturity of the Fixed Deposit Account, the Fixed deposit will be renewed
to another Fixed Deposit with a similar maturity period.
However, you may instruct us to transfer the proceeds to the linked Current or
Savings Account that you have with us. Such instructions should be received in
writing by us at least 15 Working Days before the maturity date of a Fixed Deposit.
 
Based on the above, Im satisfied that the terms and conditions made reasonably clear that 
the transfers can be processed to linked current or savings accounts held with the bank. 
If Mrs D didnt read this information, its not something that I can blame the business for. 
Despite what she says, Im unable to safely say that she wasnt given access to the terms 
and conditions. Thats another reason why I dont think the business did anything wrong by 
not again volunteering the information, as it was contained within the terms and conditions 
available online.   
Despite what Mrs D says (aside from being told to provide her full instructions in writing and 
making clear where she wanted her deposit to go) on the face of the evidence and on balance, Im not persuaded that she was told or led to believe she could only pay her money 
into a different bank account and that was the sole reason why she provided details of such 
an account in her instructions to the business. 
I appreciate Mrs Ds concerns about the email she and Mr D received from the bank, but if 
they had concerns about its authenticity, she couldve called the bank to verify this or seek 
further information to satisfy herself as to whether or not it was a genuine email. 
In any case, I understand that the bank has provided feedback to the relevant department 
regarding this and that itll take the necessary action. In the circumstances this isnt a reason 
to uphold this complaint. 
On balance, Im satisfied that the bank took a slightly different approach to Mr Ds requests 
compared to Mrs Ds. I think this was probably due to the difference in background between 
the two requests. Based on what the bank says, Im satisfied that it wasnt initially aware of 
Mr D also wanting to provide his own withdrawal instructions  as this wasnt mentioned by 
Mrs D in her initial message  until Mr D visited the branch and made his intentions clear.
In this instance, on balance Im satisfied the bank was trying to do the right thing in terms of 
protecting its business and customers by ensuing that it was dealing with the correct person. 
I appreciate Mrs D will be unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator 
and that I havent given her what she wants. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, Im not going 
to ask the business to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reason set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman