DRN-3031731
The complaint
Mr M complains about the service he received from Professional Solutions IFA Limited, 
when it wouldnt help him make a withdrawal from his personal pension plans. 
Professional Solutions IFA Limited is an appointed representative of TenetConnect Limited 
so to keep things simple Ill refer to TenetConnect Limited (Tenet) in the decision. 
What happened
Mr M is self-employed and has two personal pension plans, with providers A and R. A  
Tenet advisor (Mr R) had been Mr Ms financial advisor for the past eight years. They had a 
remote relationship as they were based in different areas of the UK.
In September 2019 Mr M told Tenet hed stopped making pension contributions and asked 
how he could take a withdrawal of around £6,000 from his pension plan. He wanted to 
access the funds on his 64th birthday in November that year, to tide him over until he 
became eligible for the state pension at 66. 
A full fact find wasnt completed but in November Mr M provided the following information 
about his circumstances:
Aged 64, married with two dependent children;
Instant access funds of around £55,00 plus other assets;
Personal pension plans valued around £140,000;
Annual income of £24,000 from self-employment, £8,000 from rental properties
Outgoings of around £1,500 per month
State pension of £169 from age 66;
His wife receives her state pension of around £147 per week plus around £504 a 
month from her occupational pension;
He wanted the funds for his daily living expenses and to invest in an ISA. 
A telephone discussion took place on 18 November 2019 in which the advisor told Mr M he 
didnt consider the withdrawal was necessary. Mr M still wanted to access the tax-free cash, 
but the advisor said he couldnt recommend he did so. A further call took place on 21 
November followed by an email in which the Tenet advisor provided two pension 
consolidation projections, one with the withdrawal Mr M had requested and one without. 
Based on this analysis and because it appeared Mr M had no immediate need for the funds 
he couldnt recommend the drawdown as being in Mr Ms best interests. He explained the 
cost and compliance hurdles to overcome. But Mr M still wanted to go ahead with a 
withdrawal of £6,000.
On 23 December 2019 the Tenet advisor emailed Mr M with the current value of his policies 
but said as discussed going forward I recommend a face to face advisor scenario that I 
cant offer from [location]. But he told Mr M hed contacted the pension provider to stop 
deducting his ongoing advisor fees with immediate effect. He wished Mr M well and offered 
to assist the new advisor once Mr M appointed one. 
Mr M didnt accept this as hed been prepared to travel to meet the advisor and pay his fee. 
Hed never been told the distance posed a problem and he was unhappy the advisor had 
taken fees for eight years but refused to carry out his request. So he complained, saying the 
advisors failure to assist him had caused his financial situation to deteriorate. 
Tenet didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr M brought his complaint to this service where it was 
reviewed by one of our investigators. He didnt think the Tenet advisor was wrong not to 
recommend the drawdown, so he didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ms complaint. But he 
thought the advisor couldve explained things more clearly, so he recommended Tenet pay 
Mr M £200 for poor service.
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators assessment. He said Tenets recommendation had 
been based on incorrect information as he never said he had £55,000 sitting in a bank 
account. He explained that figure was made up of a number of investments (including one 
belonging to his wife) and a particular ISA with investment growth of 9% which outperformed 
his pension. He understood there might be obstacles to draw down what is rightfully mine 
but hed got the impression they could be overcome. 
Tenet didnt accept the investigators view either saying Mr M had continually changed his 
mind about what he wanted to do. The advisor had been clear with Mr M he couldnt take 
orders from him or deal with him as an insistent client. He wasnt prepared to facilitate Mr M 
taking the maximum tax-free cash as he felt it prejudiced his long-term retirement plans. He 
explained had he gone thought the advice process it would need pre-approval which 
wouldnt have been granted. So Tenet didnt think they should pay £200 just because things 
could have been worded better.
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator. Given the 
information before him I think the Tenet advisor was acting in Mr Ms best interests when he 
couldnt recommend he proceed with the withdrawal. But I think he could have explained 
things more clearly and promptly and made Mr M aware of his options. 
Pension advice might generally take place face-to-face, although telephone or video 
interviews are possible. But the 23 December 2019 email gives the impression the only 
reason Mr M was unable to drawdown his pension when he wanted was because hes based 
in a different part of the UK to the advisor. This meant Mr M questioned why the advisor had 
received ongoing advice fees from him over the years without explaining their locations 
might present a barrier when Mr M needed to access his pension. I think the advisor was 
acting with integrity by refusing to follow Mr Ms instructions which he didnt feel were in his 
best long-term interests. 
Mr M appears to view his pension fund as similar to a savings account, whereby it builds up 
over his working life and then can be accessed as and when needed. But due to the tax 
treatment it is usually better to utilise other available sources of funds rather than accessing 
pension funds. Pension freedoms legislation gave people greater control over their pension 
savings and the way benefits can be taken. But in order to protect consumers and ensure 
they retain adequate provision for their retirement, which due to rising life expectancy might 
be several decades, Financial advisors have a professional responsibility to act in their clients best interests. This sometimes means refusing to carry out a consumers instructions 
or explaining the risks of a particular course of action so the consumer can make an 
informed decision. 
The Financial Conduct Authority Conduct of Business Sourcebook sets out the obligations 
on financial advisors when assessing the suitability of a transaction for a client. Accessing 
pension drawdown is part of an advised process, requiring an assessment of the consumers 
finances, circumstances and objectives. COBS 2.1.1 requires a firm to act honestly, fairly 
and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. Failing to do so puts 
them at risk of a future complaint and financial redress, which is why Tenet required the 
advisor to get pre-approval before embarking on the process. 
Under the heading of Income withdrawals, short term annuities and uncrystallised funds 
pension lump sum payments COBS 9.3.3 says 
When a firm is making a personal recommendation to a retail client about income 
withdrawals, uncrystallised funds pension lump sum payments or purchase of short-term 
annuities, it should consider all the relevant circumstances including:
(1) The clients investment objectives, need for tax-free cash and state of health;
(2) current and future income requirements, existing pension assets and the relative 
importance of the plan, given the clients financial circumstances;
The advisor explained to Mr M the fees and process involved with moving his funds into 
drawdown which would incur additional costs and require pre-approval from Tenet which he 
didnt think would be given. His conclusion was based on information Mr M had provided on 
3 November 2019 in response to the advisors questions. Question 1 asked how much Mr M 
had in emergency or instant access funds to which he replied This would be in excess of 
£55,000. (Other investments are in the form of deposits on BTLs). 
Mr M subsequently explained he didnt have £55,000 sitting in a current account, but actually 
£22,000 was held in a stocks and shares ISA invested in a fund Ill call F (which I 
understand is heavily weighted in foreign equities), £20,000 was his wifes cash ISA and the 
balance was credit on a buy to let mortgage. But the advisor based his analysis on the 
information Mr M provided which suggested he had adequate instant access funds to 
provide income until State pension age. A pension is designed to provide adequate income 
throughout retirement, but Mr M commented he saw his pension as an enabling fund either 
towards further investment or more materialistic desires rather than for day to day living 
expenses. So it seems Mr Ms primary motivation for the withdrawal was not an urgent need 
for income but to increase his investment in the F fund, which had been growing at around 
9%. 
I can understand why based on the information available to the advisor he felt it made more 
sense for Mr M to utilise his existing savings rather than drawdown funds from his pension. 
His combined pension savings were worth around £140,000 but a withdrawal of the 
maximum 25% tax-free cash, would mean all future withdrawals would be taxable. And a 
substantial withdrawal when Mr M had no obvious need risked his future financial security.
So rather than leaving Mr M with the impression the geography was the only barrier to doing 
what he wanted, I think the advisor could simply have explained in his professional opinion 
the withdrawal wasnt in his best interests, and for that reason he wasnt prepared to assist 
him. It doesnt appear the advisor made Mr M aware of Tenets insistent client process 
whereby people can proceed against advice and at their own risk. 
But even if Mr M had been aware, the Tenet advisor wasnt obliged to facilitate a transaction 
against the clients best interest. I also think the advisor could have signposted Mr M to free 
services such as Pensionwise and made Mr M aware of other options. Such as approaching 
provider R direct on a non-advised basis to access the 25% tax-free cash from the smaller plan valued at around £20,400, leaving the larger plan with A invested. And Mr M could 
switch the investments within his pension plan to increase his holdings in the F fund. 
So in summary I dont criticise the advisor for failing to recommend the withdrawal, based on 
the information Mr M had provided. But I do think he could have managed Mr Ms 
expectations better and explained his reasoning for refusing to assist more clearly. This 
would have prevented the misunderstanding over the geography, enabled Mr M to 
appreciate the risks of what he intended and consider his options and whether it was in his 
long-term best interests to proceed. So for that reason I feel Tenet should pay Mr M £200. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint in part. TenetConnect Limited should pay Mr M £200.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman