DRN-2673289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a fee-
paying Advance account.
They say they missed a payment on their overdraft. They say they asked if they could make 
the next two payments at one and a half times the normal amount over the next two 
payments to get level. 
They say they were told that they either have to repay their overdraft off in full, or take out 
the fee-paying Advance account. Mr and Mrs A say they agreed to the Advance account as 
it was their only option and felt that it was given to them as a lifeline.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she didnt think that the account had 
been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs A disagreed, so the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. I would also like to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is the case here, I have to decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Having considered everything, I dont think that the Advance account was mis-sold. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs A say that they missed a repayment on their overdraft and asked if they could 
increase the next two payments to get level. However, as explained by the adjudicator, 
overdrafts do not operate on a fixed repayment basis. Instead, they operate on a rolling 
basis, whereby payments out of and into the account can occur at any time, and then 
interest and/or charges are calculated on the account balance, on a daily basis, depending 
on what the arranged limit was at the time. Therefore, I have to say from the outset that I 
dont find Mr and Mrs As recollections of the sale of the account and them being required to 
make repayments as particularly compelling or persuasive.
In response to the adjudicators assessment, Mrs A clarified that she meant to say that their 
account had exceed their arranged overdraft limit, and so asked if they could make 
payments into the account over the following two months to bring it back within the arranged 
limit. Mrs A says that HSBC said that not only could they not do that, but that they had to 
repay their entire overdraft in full, or take out the Advance account.
However, again I dont find Mrs As explanation as particularly persuasive. I say this 
because, HSBC says around the time of the sale of the Advance account, Mr and Mrs As 
arranged overdraft limit was £1,500. And looking at a small sample of bank statements from 
the time, I can see that Mr and Mrs A had exceed their arranged limit in October, November 
and December 2009 and in January 2010. Each time they did so, I can see that they were 
able to bring the balance back within the overdraft limit, without it seems, being threatened 
that theyd have to repay their overdraft in full or that theyd have to take out a packaged 
account. So when they upgraded to the Advance account in February 2010, I think they 
already knew that they didnt need a fee-paying account, in the event that they exceeded 
their overdraft limit. 
Furthermore, although Mr and Mrs A say they wanted to pay extra to bring the account 
back within the limit within 2 months, the statements show that they were clearly aware that 
they could pay however much they wanted into the account, at any time they wanted - rather 
than a fixed amount by a certain date. And more importantly, Mr and Mrs A never actually 
exceed their arranged limit at any point in February 2010 i.e. the month that the Advance 
account was sold to them. So their recollections of the sale dont match up with the (albeit 
limited) evidence that is available. 
So when deciding what I think was most likely to have happened, based on what I have 
seen, I am unable to conclude that its likely that Mr and Mrs A were essentially coerced into 
agreeing to the Advance account as the only option available to them  as they recall was 
the case. On the contrary, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs A agreed to the account, 
perhaps following some persuasion from HSBC, because of the benefits (namely the 
banking benefits) that it provided.
With this in mind, and as they had held a fee-free account (with an overdraft) with HSBC for 
many years before the sale of the Advance account, I think its more likely they agreed to it 
knowing it was optional. 
Based on what all parties have said and provided, Ive seen no evidence to suggest that the 
account was recommended to Mr and Mrs A. I say this as there appears to have been no 
assessment of Mr and Mrs As circumstances or that the account was recommended to them 
on the grounds that it would meet their specific needs. This means HSBC didnt have to 
check if it was right for them. But HSBC did have to give them important information about 
the account, so they could decide for themselves whether it was worth taking out. 
I think its likely that when explaining what the account came with, HSBC wouldve explained 
the features of the account to Mr and Mrs A. Afterall, HSBC wouldve wanted to make the 
account seem attractive and worthwhile taking out, so that Mr and Mrs A would agree to it. 
And it does not seem to be in doubt that Mr and Mrs A were made aware of the cost of the 
account when it was sold to them.
I accept that Mr and Mrs A might not have been presented with all of the important 
information about the account and the associated features. But Ive not seen anything about 
their circumstances that makes me think that they wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
Advance account, had they been given even more information about it. 
I understand that, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs A may now feel that the Advance 
account has been poor value for money over the years they have held it. But that does not 
mean that HSBC was wrong to have sold it to them when it did.
So, when taking everything into account, on balance, I dont think that the Advance account 
was mis-sold. I therefore dont think itd be appropriate to require HSBC to refund the 
account fees that Mr and Mrs A paid for it over the years they held it.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman