DRN-4040714
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) unfairly dealt with a 
claim under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr H contacted D&G to repair his boiler. D&G sent an engineer, who checked the system. 
He found a blockage within the boiler and said this wasnt covered by the policy. So, he left 
the property without repairing the boiler.
Mr H complained to D&G, as he had expected the engineer to repair his boiler. When D&G 
replied, it said its agent hadnt advised him the boiler would be repaired. Its records showed 
the engineer tried to repair the boiler but found a blockage, which wasnt covered by the 
policy. As a gesture of goodwill, it agreed to refund the £99 excess Mr H had paid.
When Mr H complained to this service, our investigator upheld it. She said she wasnt 
persuaded by D&Gs engineers findings and Mr H was later able to get the boiler repaired. 
She said there wasnt evidence of issues such as sludge with the boiler and that the repairs 
had involved replacing parts. She said D&G should pay the cost of repairs and £200 
compensation.
As D&G didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 23 February 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
The policy didnt provide cover for repairs related to sludge or blockages. When D&Gs 
engineer visited, he found blockages in the boiler. Mr H disagrees that there were blockages 
in the system, in particular sludge. However, I note that when Mr Hs engineer visited to 
repair the boiler, he said: We returned as your hot water wasnt hot enough, we found the 
plate to plate heat exchanger was faulty. We tried to flush out while on site, but this did not 
help, so we fitted a new one.
I currently think that Mr Hs engineer attempting to flush the system suggests he thought 
there was a blockage. Although flushing the system didnt clear the blockage, and didnt 
seem to identify sludge in the system, the plate heat exchanger was replaced. It is my 
understanding that plate heat exchangers can get blocked by things like scale and that a 
way to fix this is to replace the heat exchanger itself. Based on the evidence from both 
engineers, I think its more likely than not there was a blockage in the system. The meant 
that the repair wasnt covered by the policy and it was reasonable for the engineer to leave.
Im aware Mr H had concerns about D&Gs engineers ability, but this doesnt change my 
view, as I think both D&Gs engineer and Mr Hs seemed to find a blockage. Im also aware 
Mr H has said that even if D&Gs engineer couldnt carry out a full repair, he could still have 
done things like replace the expansion vessel. However, when the engineer identified there 
was a blockage, he knew he couldnt complete a repair under the policy. So, I currently think 
it was reasonable for the engineer to leave. I dont think he had to replace other parts within 
the boiler before he left.
When Mr H complained, D&G agreed to refund the excess Mr H had paid for the repair. In 
the circumstances, I think that was reasonable. As a result, I dont currently intend to uphold 
this complaint or to require D&G to do anything further.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 March 2023.
Mr H didnt agree with my decision. In summary, he said:
He understood my decision to mean that because his engineer attempted a flush that the 
engineer thought there was a blockage. This was incorrect. 
Mr H said he had asked the engineer to carry out a flush to demonstrate there was no 
sludge or blockage present. The flush then proved this.
The test was only carried out at Mr Hs request, not because the engineers ever thought 
there was a blockage present.
There were many reasons a boiler could malfunction and needed replacing, but the flush 
proved it wasnt due to a blockage.
He disagreed that it was more likely than not that there was a blockage in the system. 
The radiators being bled, the flush of the heat exchanger and that the boiler was fitted 
with magna clean and annually serviced showed this. There was no evidence to suggest 
a blockage.
D&G didnt reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that I have reviewed the complaint again, including 
considering the points raised by Mr H in response to my provisional decision.
Im aware Mr H has said his engineer tried to flush the system at his request to prove there 
wasnt any sludge or a blockage. Ive looked again at what the engineer said, which was:
We returned as your hot water wasnt hot enough, we found the plate to plate heat 
exchanger was faulty. We tried to flush out while on site, but this did not help, so we fitted a 
new one.
In my view, it is reasonable to read this as the engineer saying they carried out the flush 
because the heat exchanger was found to be faulty, but that it didnt help. I didnt see 
anything where the engineer said they only did it at the request of Mr H. I think the 
engineers explanation suggests they thought there was some kind of blockage. The D&G 
engineer also thought there was a blockage. Blockages werent covered by the policy. I 
remain of the view that it was reasonable for the D&G engineer to decide the repair wasnt 
covered by the policy and that he should leave without carrying out a repair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is not upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman