DRN-1678815
complaint
Miss S complains that Domestic & General Insurance Plc sent a letter containing her 
personal information to the wrong address. She says this caused her distress and 
inconvenience.
background
Miss S took out an insurance policy with D&G to protect her hob. D&G has explained that an 
error occurred after Miss S set up the policy online. It says due to similarities between the 
names of Miss S and her brother, who live on the same street, their data was merged.
D&G says Miss S opted to have her policy documents sent to her by email, so these were 
safely received. However, Miss S later raised a complaint because she was dual covered. 
Because the two profiles had merged, the acknowledgement letter for that complaint was 
sent to her brothers address. D&G says the data was then corrected, and its further 
correspondence went to the correct address.
In terms of the original complaint that was made about the dual cover, Miss S has told us her 
policy was duplicated and she was charged twice. But she says she was refunded, and the 
issue was quickly resolved. She hasnt brought that complaint to this service.
Miss S raised a second complaint about her correspondence being sent to her brother, and 
the service she had received during the first complaint. D&G acknowledged that it had sent 
one letter to the wrong address; it had kept Miss S on the phone for longer than necessary 
during a call about this; and a complaint hadnt been set up about the issue when she 
requested that to happen. D&G sent Miss S £30 to apologise for these issues.
Miss S remained unhappy with the response to her second complaint, so she referred the 
matter to this service. Miss S says her personal details and policy information was sent to 
her brothers address, and they arent on speaking terms  she says he was angry about 
receiving her post and this led to more issues between them. Miss S has explained she 
suffers from anxiety; and issues relating to her personal information cause her stress. 
Miss S also says that she had tried to raise her complaint on three occasions, and it wasnt 
until the third attempt her complaint was acted on. She doesnt consider £30 adequately 
acknowledges all her phone calls, stress, and inconvenience.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but overall, she thought £30 was fair for 
what happened and the impact on Miss S. Because Miss S disagreed, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
 
 
my findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As explained by our investigator, its not our role to decide if a business has breached data 
protection laws. This is for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. But we 
can consider whether a business should do something, such as pay compensation, to 
recognise the impact of whats happened. So, thats what Ive considered here.
I accept this matter has been upsetting for Miss S given her difficult relationship with her 
brother, and I appreciate its likely to have led to some concern about the security of her 
personal information. I also acknowledge resolving the issue has been frustrating and 
inconvenient. But equally, the incorrectly addressed letter contained little personal or 
sensitive information; and theres been no wider consequences. 
I appreciate Miss S is disappointed with the compensation she received. But having carefully 
considered the overall impact the incorrectly addressed letter had on her, Im not persuaded 
I would have awarded significantly more. So, in my view, I cant reasonably decide D&G 
should compensate her further.
my final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Miss S. But for the reasons explained above, I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Vince Martin
Ombudsman