DRN-2941278
The complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) in 
December 2009 by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that his fee free current account was upgraded to an URCA without his knowledge 
or authorisation. He says that when he queried the account change at the time, he was told it 
was needed to get preferential rates on loans, overdrafts and mortgages.
Halifax says that Mr B requested the upgrade based on the information it gave to him about 
the URCA. And it says he couldve downgraded the account at any time.
I wasnt present in the discussion at the time of the sale, so I can only look at the evidence 
available today to make my decision.
Halifax has provided evidence that Mr B opened a fee free current account in 2006 and had 
an overdraft with the account for several years before opening the URCA. So, in my view Mr 
B was aware that fee free accounts were available.
Halifax has also provided a copy of an application form from December 2009, which 
although difficult to read shows that Mr B requested to change his account in writing at that 
time, and he has signed the form.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mr B knew he had a choice whether to take out the 
URCA and he chose to take it out.
Ive not seen any evidence such as a written assessment of Mr Bs circumstances to indicate 
that Halifax advised Mr B to take out the account. And this service is aware that Halifax sales 
at the time were generally non-advised. So, I think its more likely than not that Halifax did 
not provide advice or recommend the URCA to Mr B.
So, the only requirement on Halifax was to provide enough information to Mr B to make an 
informed decision about the URCA.
And I think it did. I say this because Halifax has provided evidence that it sent Mr B an 
information pack. And Mr B couldve closed the URCA at any time but didnt for many years.
Ive considered Mr Bs argument that he didnt use any of the benefits. But at the time he 
took out the URCA he was using a substantial overdraft and Halifax had introduced a £1 a 
day charge for it. As the URCA was £12.50 a month, he would have saved money if he kept 
his overdraft below £300, and he could potentially access any of the benefits for little or no 
cost. He also had the various types of protective cover available whether he claimed it or 
not. An example of this would be that he was covered for car breakdown whether he was the 
owner or driver of a vehicle or not. So, I cant say that I think its more likely than not that he 
had no reason to take out the URCA as he suggests.
Mr B has also said that he was told by Halifax that the URCA provided savings on loans, 
overdrafts and mortgages. This was true, the URCA did provide better rates for credit in that 
way, but that was a commercial decision by Halifax and it has done nothing wrong in doing 
so.
So, in my view I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in the sale of the URCA to Mr B.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman