DRN-3291726
The complaint
Mr O complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax are unable to locate his accounts 
and pay him the money he says was outstanding.  
What happened
Mr O had a savings account with Halifax which he says was frozen due to an issue with his 
identity verification. 
Mr O says he has been into the branch to withdraw his money, which he thinks is around 
£800, but he was told his account cant be traced. 
Halifax looked into Mr Os complaint and declined it. It said it located Mr Os accounts which 
were opened in 2006. It said it wrote to Mr O on 13 November 2006 requesting some 
identification since he had applied for a new account. Halifax said it blocked the account until 
Mr Os identification was received due to Anti Money Laundering procedures. Halifax 
received the identification at the end of November 2006 and removed the block. Halifax said 
the accounts were closed in branch in 2009 and the remaining funds were paid out in cash. 
And because of this the accounts would have been closed in branch.
Mr O wasnt satisfied with the response from Halifax and so referred his complaint to this 
service.  Our investigator reviewed everything and didnt uphold the complaint. She said she 
had seen evidence from Halifax which satisfied her that the accounts were closed in 2009 
and the outstanding balances were withdrawn in cash in branch. Mr O wasnt happy with the 
investigators view and so the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am aware Mr O doesnt believe Halifax version of events. I think its important to say the 
financial business can never claim a customers money for itself, no matter how much time 
has passed since the account was closed. 
I can see Mr O feels strongly about this matter and I understand why. But I dont think 
Halifax has acted unreasonably or treated Mr O unfairly here.
There isnt very much evidence in this case. This is due to the passage of time. The account 
was closed in 2009 and the complaint brought in 2021. In the circumstances I was pleased 
to see Halifax was able to provide the information on it. 
When evidence is incomplete, as is the case here, I make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. So it means Ive based it on what I think is most likely to have happened given 
the available evidence.  
Mr O has provided information showing the accounts existed. He has sent us a copy of a 
statement and a photograph of the bank card associated with one of the accounts. 
Halifax has sent us documents which show transactions for two accounts belonging to Mr O. 
I note the investigator sent copies of those statements to Mr O when she provided her view.
Halifax said the accounts were closed in 2009. Mr O says he didnt have a card for the 
accounts or any identification so he couldnt have withdrawn the funds in branch to close 
them. However on review of the statements I can see the accounts were used regularly 
including at ATM machines so its likely Mr O had an active bank card at the time the 
accounts were closed. Mr O disputes he closed the accounts but there is no evidence or 
explanation as to what else is likely to have happened.  
I understand Mr O expects Halifax to be able to provide information on his account no matter 
the age. But banks arent required to hold records indefinitely. Generally they are only held 
for six years, in line with data protection laws. The statements provided by Halifax show the 
account was closed in 2009 and the funds were withdrawn in cash. Halifax couldnt give 
every detail due to the passage of time, as Mr O wants it to. But I think Halifax has done 
what it can to show Mr O the account details. 
On balance its likely the accounts have been closed and the outstanding balance paid out. 
Ive no doubt this claim has been made in the genuine belief Mr O still has funds in those 
accounts but from what Ive seen they were closed in 2009. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr O was hoping for and I can understand this must be 
frustrating for him. Halifax have provided the information Mr O had asked for.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman