DRN-3770674
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs S have complained about poor customer service and delays by Barclays Bank 
UK Plc when they were re-arranging their mortgage onto a new offset mortgage product. To 
settle the complaint Mr B, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, would like Barclays 
to reimburse approximately £4,000 of interest which he says he has been overcharged.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, Barclays has accepted that there was a delay, and that 
it needs to pay compensation, so the only issue I need to determine is what compensation 
should be paid and for what period of time. Finally, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr B and Mrs S being identified. 
So for these reasons, I will keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
Mr B and Mrs S had a mortgage with Barclays that was coming to the end of its interest rate 
product. They decided to switch to a new product, an offset mortgage, so they could offset 
savings against the entire mortgage. The implications of this are that interest on savings is 
offset against interest charged on the mortgage, resulting in less interest being charged on 
the mortgage. Where interest rates on savings are low (as they have been for some time), it 
can make more financial sense for borrowers to offset the higher interest theyd pay on the 
mortgage by against savings interest.
After unsuccessfully trying to make the switch to the offset mortgage online, in December 
2020 Mr B spoke to Barclays and was told that this would have to be a fresh mortgage 
application, as it was a new product, rather than just a product switch. Barclays also said 
that solicitors would need to become involved. Mr B and Mrs S engaged a mortgage broker 
to handle the application for them.
The mortgage offer was issued on 18 January 2022 and the transaction completed on 
1 April 2022.
Mr B complained about the length of time the transaction had taken, saying that the broker 
had been given incorrect information by Barclays about the need to involve solicitors. Mr B 
said that the delays had meant that hed paid £4,000 in interest that he would not otherwise 
have had to pay if Barclays had made no errors. In its final response letter, Barclays offered 
compensation of £250 for any trouble and upset caused. But Barclays didnt think it was 
responsible for any additional interest.
Mr B and Mrs S brought their complaint to our service, where an investigator looked at what 
had happened. He thought that thered been some confusion about what was required to put 
the new offset mortgage in place. A full mortgage application was required, and Barclays 
explained that solicitors would be needed in order to put this in place.
The investigator found that thered been a delay of about three weeks that could be 
attributed to Barclays. In addition to the £250 compensation already offered, the investigator 
asked Barclays to calculate the interest charged for the first three weeks of the mortgage, 
less the amount Mr B and Mrs S would have paid if the mortgage had been switched to the 
new product three weeks earlier, and reimburse the difference.
Barclays agreed to do this, and clarified that the mortgage didnt complete until 1 April 2022, 
so the period for reimbursement would be the 10-31 March 2022 inclusive. Mr B and Mrs S 
didnt think it was enough. Theyve reiterated the points theyve made about where they feel 
Barclays customer service fell short and have asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this matter didnt go as smoothly as Mr B and Mrs S wanted, and I can 
understand their frustration and disappointment that the transaction took so long to be 
completed.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents and 
several hours of telephone call recordings. Ive read everything and listened to all the calls, 
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In 
what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been 
presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I note that there was confusion about whether or not a solicitor was required for the 
transaction. The mortgage product being taken out was a different type of product from the 
mortgage Mr B and Mrs S had previously. As a result, it was necessary for a new mortgage 
to be put in place and the previous mortgage discharged. 
Because the secured property is in Scotland, discharging a mortgage and putting a new 
mortgage in place has to be done through solicitors. I can see that, behind the scenes, 
Barclays and the broker were trying to see if this could be done as a simple product switch, 
but ultimately this wasnt possible, due to the need to set up a new mortgage product. So 
although I understand that this was frustrating, it was a legal requirement that Barclays 
wasnt able to overcome through its own internal processes.
As I said above, I dont need to set out each and every incident that happened during the 
course of this transaction. However, Ive given careful consideration to everything thats 
happened and, having done so, Im satisfied that there was an avoidable delay by Barclays 
of about three weeks  which the bank has accepted. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that 
the re-mortgage could have been completed three weeks sooner. Given this, 
Mr B and Mrs S paid more interest than they would have done if the mortgage had been 
completed sooner and theyd offset their savings against it.Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to do the following:
calculate the amount of interest charged for the period 10 March 2022 to 31 March 2022 
inclusive;
deduct from this the amount of any offset interest that would have been applied to the 
account for the same period;
reimburse the difference to Mr B and Mrs S;
pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £250.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to settle the 
complaint as set out above.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman