DRN-3968070
The complaint
Miss C complains that Simplyhealth Access didnt accept that she had a valid claim. 
What happened
Miss C had a cash plan policy with Simplyhealth. She made a claim on 16 October 2022 for 
prescription lenses and frames under the optical benefit on her policy.
Simplyhealth paid £89 on 20 October 2022 but said it couldnt consider any unpaid balance 
which was showing on one of the receipts submitted for the prescription lenses specifically. 
Miss C queried this the same day and asked why the frames part of her claim hadnt been 
considered.
Following this, Simplyhealth paid the remaining £11 of the claim (up to the policy limit of 
£100) on 26 October 2022. It said it paid the remainder as an exception as the policy didnt 
cover eyewear that didnt have prescription lenses.
Unhappy with Simplyhealths response, Miss C brought a complaint to our service. She 
explained that due to her circumstances, purchasing frames online separately and having 
them fitted in store was the only way she could purchase the eyewear she needed. She 
wanted Simplyhealth to confirm her claim was valid and that it was paid in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy, rather than as an exception, as it had been before.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. He noted that Simplyhealth had 
explained to us it had made a mistake in originally only paying £89 of Miss Cs claim, and 
then later saying this was paid as an exception. Simplyhealth said that it shouldve paid the 
full claim and apologised to Miss C.
Our investigator didnt think there was anything else Simplyhealth needed to do. This was 
because Miss C hadnt suffered a financial loss  Simplyhealth had paid her claim in full 
promptly. And he thought what Simplyhealth had said (as set out in the previous paragraph) 
was fair and reasonable. He didnt think Simplyhealth needed to pay Miss C any 
compensation for these reasons.
Miss C didnt agree with our investigators findings. In short, she said having to chase 
Simplyhealth for the full claim payment was inconvenient. She also said that it was 
frustrating that Simplyhealth hadnt said the claim was paid in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. Miss C said shed needed clarification on this urgently so she could 
make an informed choice about whether or not the policy met her needs.
Following this, our investigator asked if Simplyhealth could issue Miss C a letter of apology 
directly. Simplyhealth agreed to do so.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think what Simplyhealth has done is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Here are my reasons why:
Simplyhealth has accepted it made a mistake when it originally only paid £89 of 
Miss Cs claim. But Im satisfied it paid Miss Cs claim in full promptly when Miss C 
queried this, and she hasnt suffered a financial loss.
I appreciate Miss C was concerned when Simplyhealth said it paid the claim as an 
exception. Simplyhealth has accepted it made a mistake and said it shouldve 
apologised to Miss C. And it has said it has now sent her an apology directly. Overall, 
I think what Simplyhealth has done is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I 
dont think it needs to do anything else  namely, pay Miss C compensation  in the 
circumstances of the complaint. 
I dont think I could fairly ask Simplyhealth to pay Miss C compensation for a concern 
about any future claim that hasnt yet happened. And while I appreciate Miss C 
wouldve wanted to make sure the policy was still right for her, Im also mindful that 
shed already been paid this benefit up to the maximum for that policy year, and the 
policy wasnt due to renew until April 2023.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss C but I think what Simplyhealth has done is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman