DRN-2668061
The complaint
Mr N complains about the loss assessor, Harris Balcombe LLP, that he appointed to assist 
with his insurance claim.   
What happened
In March 2018 there was an escape of water at Mr Ns property which caused significant 
damage throughout. He made a claim on his home insurance. 
In April 2018 Mr N appointed Harris Balcombe to assist with the claim. It appointed 
contractors to carry out the repairs. However once these were complete there were a 
number of snagging issues.
Mr N raised these issues with Harris Balcombe who addressed them. However he remained 
unhappy as he said Harris Balcombe hadnt carried out all the work needed from the list. He 
was also unhappy with the fitting of the laminate flooring as he said this was now uneven. He 
instructed a flooring expert who had said the floor had been laid poorly, so he wanted this re-
fitted. He was also unhappy with the layout of the kitchen that had been reinstalled and he 
felt Harris Balcombe hadnt paid him the full amount paid by his insurer for his contents 
claim. He made a complaint.
In May 2019 Harris Balcombe issued its final response to Mr Ns complaint. It said it was 
satisfied that the work had been done appropriately and that snagging issues were being 
addressed.
Mr N remained unhappy. He said most of the snagging issues hadnt been addressed and 
the uneven floor was making it difficult for him to move around his house as he has mobility 
issues. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered all the issues and recommended that part of Mr Ns complaint 
be upheld. She didnt uphold Mr Ns points about the kitchen layout or the defects on the 
snagging list that Harris Balcombe had already signed off. And she felt the correct amount 
had been paid for Mr Ns contents. But she thought it should resolve Mr Ns complaint by:
 Paying to replace the flooring, based on quotes provided by Mr N.
 Arranging to repair the agreed defects from the snagging list or pay for Mr N to have 
these done. 
Mr N agreed to this outcome. However Harris Balcombe didnt agree. It said that the problem 
with the flooring was due to an uneven sub-flooring which was in place before the escape of 
water. It said as this was not damaged by the incident, it wasnt its contractors responsibility 
to replace it. It agreed to look at quotes for replacing the flooring, but wouldnt pay for any 
repairs to the sub-flooring.
As Harris Balcombe didnt agree with our investigator, Mr Ns complaint has come to me to 
decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N and Harris Balcombe are now in agreement about how some areas of the complaint 
can be taken forward. Harris Balcombe has agreed to carry out the required repairs to points 
on the snagging list where it agrees there is a defect. And it has said it will look at other 
items if further proof is provided from Mr N. Mr N has agreed to this and I think this is a fair 
resolution. Mr N has also agreed that the layout to his kitchen doesnt need any further work.
So the only matter that is left outstanding is the laminate flooring.
Harris Balcombe has said that the problem with the flooring is caused by uneven sub-
flooring. It says that this was present before the claim and wasnt damaged by the escape of 
water. So it says it isnt the responsibility of its contractor to put it right. 
Mr N has disputed this. He has provided a report from a flooring expert that concludes that 
the new flooring wasnt laid properly. And this is why its now uneven. 
I have considered both of these accounts. While Mr Ns report doesnt mention any problem 
with sub-flooring, from the photos provided by Harris Balcombe I can see that there were 
some problems that could be seen when the original flooring was removed. So I accept that 
there may have been problems with the sub flooring that could have contributed to the 
issues Mr N is now experiencing.
However from looking at the report from Mr Ns expert, its clear that the flooring also wasnt 
properly installed by the contractors instructed by Harris Balcombe. And it has agreed to 
meet the cost of replacing the floor  based on quotes provided by Mr N. However Harris 
Balcombe doesnt agree that it should pay for any costs relating to the sub-flooring. 
In order to decide whether this is fair, Ive considered what should have happened when the 
floor was originally replaced by Harris Balcombes contractor. When a repair is carried out in 
respect of an insurance claim we expect it to be effective and long lasting. Sometimes this 
may mean other problems that werent caused by the insured event need repairing in order 
to ensure the repair is effective.
In this case the contractors have provided photos of the sub-flooring to demonstrate that this 
was damaged before they started work. So I can see there were problems with the sub-
flooring that may have contributed to the poor end result. 
However the fact that these photos were taken before the work was completed, shows that 
the contractors were aware of this problem. And, as experts, I think they could have 
reasonably foreseen that the uneven sub-flooring would lead to a poor end result and 
uneven flooring. It should have been clear that in order to ensure the flooring they laid was 
effective and long lasting, this would have needed to have been rectified before the flooring 
was laid. So I dont think it was fair or reasonable for them to complete the job without first 
addressing the issues with the sub-flooring. 
While I appreciate the problems with the sub-flooring werent caused by the insured event, 
so werent strictly within the remit of the contractors, I also need to consider what is fair and 
reasonable. And I dont think it was fair or reasonable for the contractors to carry out a repair 
that wouldnt produce an effective and long lasting end result. So I would have expected them to have completed any necessary work to the sub-flooring before replacing the floor.
For this reason I think its fair for Harris Balcombe to pay for the cost of the sub-flooring as 
part of the required repairs to the flooring. As repairing this is the only way to ensure an 
effective and long lasting repair to Mr Ns floor. 
So I require Harris Balcombe to cover the cost of replacing Mr Ns floor, including any 
necessary changes to the sub-flooring. 
Mr N has provided a quote for the work required. Because of ongoing restrictions due to the 
coronavirus pandemic, I understand it hasnt been easy for him to get any further quotes. So 
I think its reasonable for Harris Balcombe to pay the costs based on the quote provided by 
Mr N.     
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, I require Harris Balcombe LLP to:
 Pay Mr N the cost of replacing the flooring its contractors previously replaced, including the 
cost of the sub-flooring. This should be based on the quote provided by Mr N. 
 Carry out all mutually agreed repairs outlined in the snagging list or pay Mr N the money to 
have these completed, if it hasnt already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman