DRN-3318596
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zenith Insurance Plc declined his claim under his car insurance policy 
following the theft of his car.
What happened
In November 2020 Mr Hs car was stolen and crashed, resulting in it being written off. At the
time of the theft the car was parked at his daughters address, as she had borrowed it whilst
her car was being repaired at a local garage. Mr H says his daughter arranged for temporary
insurance cover for a period of two days whilst she used his car. After the two days the car
remained at her address until her mother could collect it.
Mr H was in hospital when he loaned his daughter the car. He was diagnosed with the
coronavirus, which meant he couldnt collect the car, and neither could his wife as she had to
isolate.
The thief was known to Mr Hs daughter and had access to her home. The keys were stolen,
which allowed the car to be taken. This individual was subsequently arrested and charged
with theft and crashing the car.
Zenith says as the car was at Mr Hs daughters address, and she was the last to drive it, this
meant she was in charge of the car at the time it was stolen. It says the terms of its policy
say cover is not provided in these circumstances. Zenith declined the claim based on this
exclusion.
Mr H disagreed and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator upheld his complaint.
She didnt think it was fair for Zenith to rely on this exclusion and decline the claim in these
circumstances. She thought it clear the intention was for the car to be collected, but due to
Mr Hs illness and his wife needing to isolate, this wasnt possible. Our investigator thought
these circumstances were exceptional and didnt think it was fair for Zenith to decline the
claim for the reason it gave.
Zenith disagreed. It says Mr Hs daughter could have simply extended her temporary
insurance when it became clear there would be a delay. Alternatively, it says she could have
driven the car back to Mr Hs address, in which case Mr Hs cover will have been in place.
Our investigator didnt change her view. So, Zenith asked for an ombudsman to review the
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021 explaining that I was intending to not 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Mr Hs car was stolen. My remit here is consider whether Zenith has
reasonably shown that the policy terms exclude his claim for the reason it has given.
The policy terms under the section entitled General Policy Exclusions say:
You are not covered under your policy for any of the following:
Who uses the car:
Any injury, loss or damage which takes place while the car is being:
- Driven by or in the charge of any person not covered by your Certificate of Motor
Insurance.
Mr Hs certificate of motor insurance shows he and his wife are entitled to drive his car. It
isnt disputed that the policy doesnt cover his daughter. But evidence has been provided to
show the temporary insurance cover she arranged for the two-day period when she drove
his car.
Mr Hs wife told us her daughter was expected to return the car on the Friday after hers had
been repaired. The repair took longer than expected. Mrs H says her daughter was to
arrange additional temporary cover if the car wasnt fixed by the following Monday. I
understand this was if she needed to use Mr Hs car after the weekend.
No further insurance cover was arranged by Mr Hs daughter after the initial two days cover
ended. Mr Hs car was then parked on her driveway and it was from here that it was stolen.
I acknowledge Mr Hs account that his daughter only drove his car during the period when
she had arranged temporary cover. This isnt in dispute. But Mr H believes his policy should
cover the theft and damage to his car regardless of his daughter having been the last person
to drive it, or that it was parked at her address.
I have thought about whether the exclusion relied upon by Zenith is clear in the terms and
conditions. And whether its fair, in these circumstances, for it to decline the claim for the
reason given.
Having considered the terms, I think theyre clear that there is no cover when the car is in the
charge of someone not covered by the certificate of motor insurance. Mr H gave permission
for his daughter to use his car. I think this reasonably means his daughter was in the charge
of his car until this was returned or collected. She then drove the car whilst under the cover
of her own temporary policy. It was parked on her driveway, from where it was subsequently
stolen. I understand the individual who stole the car had access to Mr Hs daughters home,
which enabled him to take the keys.
Clearly this is a very unfortunate situation. The theft of a car will be stressful for anyone to
deal with, but given Mr Hs hospitalisation at the time, I can understand this was very
upsetting for him and his family.
I dont dispute that Mr Hs daughter only intended to drive his car, whilst she was insured to
do so. I accept his wife couldnt pick up the car because she was isolating due to the
coronavirus. But I think Zeniths argument that the car was in the charge of Mr Hs daughter,when it was stolen, is persuasive. This is because its accepted that she borrowed the car,
that she was the last to drive it and it remained parked at her address. The car hadnt been
returned to Mr H and neither he nor his wife had taken charge of it.
I have considered the circumstances around why the car remained at Mr Hs daughters
address. But the policy terms are clear that there is no cover when the car is in the charge of
a person not covered by the certificate of motor insurance. Mr Hs daughter isnt covered
under his policy.
Zenith makes the point that Mr Hs daughter understood she needed to have cover whilst the
car was in her possession. Hence why she initially arranged for temporary cover to be in
place. It says she couldve extended this cover whilst the car was still in her possession.
Alternatively, it says she couldve driven the car back to Mr Hs address, where it would have
been covered under his policy.
Mr H says his daughter didnt want to drive his car back when she wasnt insured. I accept
his point here. But it was her decision to only arrange cover for a period of two days. I think
Zeniths point is reasonable that options were available to ensure the car remained insured.
And that Mr Hs daughter was in charge of his car when it was stolen.
Having considered all of this, I think the terms are clear and Zeniths view is persuasive that
Mr Hs daughter was in charge of his car when it was stolen. I accept he took steps to
ensure his daughter arranged her own insurance. But this didnt cover the full period she
was in possession of his car. It may be that by not driving it, the belief was insurance cover
was in place under Mr Hs policy. But I dont think Mr H has shown that cover was or should
have been in place as he suggests.
Mr H didnt contact Zenith to query if cover was in place when lending his car to his
daughter. And as above, I think the terms are clear in excluding cover here. I dont think the
circumstances Mr H describes, although unfortunate, mean the policy terms cannot be relied
upon by Zenith.
In summary I think Zenith has fairly relied on the terms of its policy when declining Mr Hs
claim. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
I said I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision. But neither party responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman