DRN-4140995
The complaint
Ms G has complained National Westminster Bank plc wont refund her for numerous 
disputed transactions from 2008 to 2022.
What happened
On 22 September 2022 Ms G contacted NatWest. She believed shed been a victim of fraud. 
After getting hold of her paper statements she told NatWest there were thousands of pounds 
of fraud on her account and was concerned NatWest had done little to protect her.
NatWest considered Ms Gs different claims. They confirmed they didnt have access to 
records for transactions before 2018. But in any case they didnt believe there was sufficient 
evidence to show shed been defrauded. They noted how upset shed been by suggestions 
within branch that shed be best off closing her accounts, but they didnt think there was 
anything further they should do.
Still unhappy, Ms G brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. 
Our investigator reviewed the evidence supplied by both Ms G and NatWest. He told Ms G 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 meant banks had to be notified of disputed 
transactions within 13 months of them taking place. Hed also looked at transactions from 
August 2021 throughout 2022. These involved Ms Gs debit card which remained in her 
possession throughout. He didnt think these were unauthorised. 
Disappointed with this outcome, Ms G has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The regulations which are relevant to Ms Gs complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (PSRs). These primarily require banks and financial institutions to refund 
customers if they didnt make or authorise payments themselves. 
To help me come to a decision, Ive reviewed the evidence NatWest provided as well as 
what Ms G has given us. This involved over 500 pages of paperwork which I can reassure 
her Ive looked at carefully. 
Firstly I should say I appreciate how upsetting this must be for Ms G. I dont doubt her belief 
shes been defrauded over a number of years. Shes told us she believes shes lost more 
than £100,000. 
However I have little leeway in what Im able to consider. The PSRs mean banks only need 
to consider fraudulent claims if theyre raised with them within 13 months of the transactions 
taking place. It was only in September 2022 that Ms G raised nearly 15 years worth of 
disputed transactions. 
I have looked at whether there was any reason Ms G couldnt have raised her fraud claims 
earlier. I note shes told us she wasnt getting paper statements, but she was able to use 
NatWests app. Ms G has told us these transactions werent highlighted within the app. 
However I dont believe this would be possible. Ms G would have been able to notice if her 
balance was lower than she expected and been able to see all transactions on her account.
So I confirm that I can only consider the disputed transactions from August 2021 that were 
brought to NatWests attention. 
Unfortunately that doesnt mean I can hold NatWest responsible for those either. I say this 
because:
These were made using Ms Gs debit card. On occasion transactions were 
contactless and on occasion they were PIN-based.
Ms G says she has her debit card in her possession.
Any fraud would have meant someone must have taken and replaced her card 
numerous times. I think this is highly unlikely and if this had happened, Ms G would 
have noticed it.
Overall I believe Ms G authorised these transactions herself. I wont be asking NatWest to 
refund her.
Ive also considered what Ms G has told us about how she was treated within branch. I note 
how upsetting this must have been. But I believe Ms G had been in branch on several 
occasions and was pretty insistent about what had happened. I know how distressing Ms G 
has found this but I wont be asking NatWest to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Ms Gs complaint against National 
Westminster Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman