DRN-3637674
The complaint
Mrs H complains Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) declined her application for a current account 
without providing a reason.
What happened
In April 2022, Mrs H applied for a current account with Monzo. However, Monzo declined 
Mrs Hs application without giving her a reason. Mrs H says she would like to understand 
why Monzo declined her application.
Monzo say they reserve the right to turn down banking applications and that there could be a 
number of reasons that lead them to decline applications. Monzo also said they recognised 
Mrs H wanted to know details of why her application was declined, but said unfortunately, 
this wasnt something they were able to provide. However, Monzo told Mrs H that they 
followed their internal guidance when they made this decision.
Our Investigator looked into Mrs Hs concerns and in summary, said some of Monzos 
criteria and how they assessed applications are considered sensitive information. So, our 
Investigator didnt think Monzo had done anything wrong in not providing Mrs H with detailed 
reasoning as to why her application was declined. So, our Investigator didnt recommend 
Monzo do anything to put things right for Mrs H.
Mrs H disagreed. In summary, she remained of the opinion Monzo should have told her why 
she didnt meet their criteria for opening an account and provided reassurances that her 
credit history is perfect. Mrs H also said she wasnt aware of anything that would result in a 
declined application for a current account and without knowing why Monzo declined her 
application, shes been left to wonder whether their decision was fair, legal or even 
discriminatory. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H is reasonably concerned Monzo have found something about her financial situation 
that led to their decision to decline her application and Mrs H has asked for a better 
understanding behind their decision. Monzo, in turn, say they assessed Mrs Hs application 
and upon following their internal guidance, they werent able to offer Mrs H an account. 
Mrs H has told us theres nothing on her credit file that she feels would cause Monzo 
concern. I dont doubt what Mrs H has said, but this isnt the only thing Monzo will consider 
when assessing an application for an account. I can see from the information provided by 
Monzo that they took into consideration a range of information when they assessed Mrs Hs 
application  this included (but was not exclusive to) information such as income, outgoings 
and other overall information about Mrs H such as her employment status. Following an 
assessment of Mrs Hs circumstances, Monzo decided not to offer her an account. With this 
in mind, Im satisfied Monzo considered Mrs Hs application in line with their criteria.
I note Mrs H has said that in the absence of information from Monzo or any logical reason 
from them, shes left wondering whether their decision was discriminatory. Im sorry to read 
Mrs H feels this way and I appreciate she wants to know more about why Monzo declined 
her application. 
I cant decide whether Mrs H has or hasnt been discriminated against because findings on 
discrimination can only be made in court. However, what I can say is whether I think Monzo 
have acted fairly in the circumstances. Ultimately, there isnt a requirement on a bank to 
provide banking services to a customer or potential customer. And it's for banks, like Monzo, 
to decide the criteria they use when assessing a customers circumstances, which they 
generally dont share with customers. I acknowledge Mrs Hs strength of feeling, but having 
looked at all the evidence, I dont think Monzo have acted unreasonably. 
I appreciate my response doesnt contain the level of detail Mrs H may have hoped for. But I 
want to assure Mrs H that as an impartial third party, I havent seen anything that shows 
Monzo treated her unfairly.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman