DRN-2873410
The complaint
Mr K is complaining Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited declined a claim he made 
on his car insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr K was involved in a car accident with a third party. He claimed for the damage to his car 
on his car insurance policy. But Watford said he was only insured for social, domestic and 
pleasure (SDP) purposes and, as he was driving home from work, he wasnt insured for the 
incident.
Mr K complained that he thought SDP cover included driving to and from work. He was also 
unhappy he was told he had to pay the third partys claim too.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint and I said the following:
There's no dispute Mr K was only insured to drive the car for SDP purposes and at the time 
of the accident he was driving back from work. So under the strict application of the terms of 
the policy, Mr K wasnt covered for any losses arising from the accident. But this service will 
always have consideration of whats fair and reasonable taking into account the relevant law 
and regulator guidelines.
Watford has set out that this isnt a matter that Mr K didnt correctly disclose his correct 
circumstances, but just didnt choose the level of cover he required. In the specific 
circumstances of this case, I agree with Watford that the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure 
and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA) doesnt apply. 
Mr K initially took the insurance policy out when he was unemployed and said he was only 
using the car for SDP purposes. But his situation had changed when he renewed the policy 
as he was working and was driving to and from work. At renewal the broker clarified with 
Mr K that he had SDP cover only and Mr K confirmed that was correct. So he wasnt asked a 
question about how he used the car at that time, but he was asked to confirm the level of 
cover he had. Mr K should have said he needed to increase the level of cover to include 
commuting, but he didnt do so.
But, as I said above, I also need to think about whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. In doing so Ive thought about why Mr K didnt ask for commuting cover and 
whether to apply the policy limitation in its strictest application could lead to an unfair 
outcome. Im satisfied that this was a careless mistake by Mr K and because he didnt 
realise or understand what SDP cover meant and that he had to have an increased level of 
cover to include commuting.
Watford hasnt said what it would have done had Mr K included commuting cover. But, from 
my experience of similar cases, Im satisfied it would have still insured Mr K with commuting 
cover. I appreciate Watford feels strongly about this that this is simply a matter that theres 
no cover for the loss. But I need to balance this against the fact that it would have covered 
Mr K with this level of cover for minimal or no extra cost. So I feel to apply the strict approach 
is creating an unfair situation in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whats a fair way to redress this complaint. While CIDRA doesnt apply in 
this case, I think the fairest way to redress this complaint is to follow the approach as set out 
in CIDRA for careless misrepresentation. This says, if the qualifying misrepresentation was 
careless and the insurer would have charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made 
the misrepresentation, it should consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
So I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that Watford should reconsider the 
claim. If Mr K would have paid a higher premium to include commuting cover and it accepts 
the claim, Watford should settle the claim proportionally based on the percentage of the 
premium he paid against what he would have paid had he included commuting cover. 
Watford replied to acknowledge receipt of my provisional decision but didnt provide any 
further response. Mr K said he didnt have anything further to add. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything else to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So I uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I set in my provisional decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint and I require Watford Insurance 
Company Europe Limited to reconsider Mr Ks claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts 
it. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman