DRN-1329781
The complaint
Miss S complains that an item she received from Studio Retail Limited wasnt what she 
ordered. Shes also unhappy that the item broke after three months.
What happened
In June 2019 Miss S ordered a steriliser from Studio. When it arrived, it was a different item 
to what shed ordered. She contacted Studio and it agreed to send a replacement. However, 
when the replacement arrived, it was also a different item to what Miss S had ordered.
Miss S is unhappy that she received the wrong item twice. She says she had to start using 
the steriliser because shed had a baby but is unhappy that it broke after three months of 
use.
Miss S says she complained to Studio about receiving the wrong items but didnt receive a 
response. Shes concerned about negative information which has been recorded on her 
credit file. She says Studio told her that she didnt need to make any payments on her 
account whilst her complaint was being investigated.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that although Studios terms and conditions 
allowed it to substitute items, it shouldve explained to Miss S that it had done so, so that she 
could make a decision whether to keep the item or not. The investigator thought it  was 
unfair of Studio to record negative information on Miss Ss credit file because shed been 
given the impression that she didnt need to make payments to the account. The investigator 
said that Studio should amend the credit file, arrange for the faulty item to be collected and 
pay compensation.
Studio didnt agree. It said it was allowed to send out substitute items and it saw no reason 
to compensate Miss S for this. It said it had never been advised that the second steriliser 
was faulty.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss S was sent a different item to that which shed ordered. This 
happened twice. I appreciate how frustrating this mustve been for Miss S.
The terms and conditions of the account allow Studio to substitute items in certain 
circumstances. So Im unable to say that Studio did anything wrong in sending a substitute 
item. However, I think Studio could have done more to explain to Miss S why it had sent a 
substitute item. Because it didnt, Miss S was left with the impression that Studio had made 
an error and sent the wrong items twice.
Miss S says that when she tried to speak to Studio about the problems with her order, it told 
her that she didnt need to make payments to her account whilst her complaint was being 
investigated. However, Studio subsequently recorded negative information on Miss Ss credit 
file.
Putting things right
Miss S has clearly been caused frustration at receiving the wrong item twice without 
explanation. If Studio had explained that these were substitute items, this wouldve given 
Miss S the opportunity to decide whether to keep the items or return it and obtain what she 
wanted elsewhere.
I think it was unreasonable for Studio to record negative information on Miss Ss credit file 
when it had given her the impression that she didnt need to make payments whilst her 
complaint was being investigated. I appreciate that there was another item on the account, 
but I dont think Studio made it clear that it expected Miss S to pay for this item but not the 
disputed items. Its clear that Miss S has been caused concern about the effect on her credit 
file and shes worried about the implications for her mortgage application. In the 
circumstances I think its fair to ask Studio to amend the credit file and to pay compensation 
for trouble and upset.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Studio Retail Limited must remove any 
negative information from Miss Ss credit file relating to the substitute items and pay 
compensation of £75 for the trouble and upset caused by recording negative information on 
her credit file. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman