DRN-2487292
The complaint
Mr M complains that the term of his mortgage with National Westminster Plc was extended 
beyond his 66th birthday. Mr M also complains that for a period his mortgage was on the 
standard variable rate (SVR) and he couldnt fix a rate because NatWest didnt respond to 
him about his complaint about the term. 
What happened
Mr M took out a mortgage with NatWest in December 2011 on a part repayment / part 
interest only basis. Mr M borrowed £78,168 with the term ending in December 2023. The 
date was to coincide with his reaching 65 years. As the state pension retirement age was 
changing, Mr M wrote to NatWest in 2013 asking that he wanted to extend the term by 
approximately one year. In November 2013, the mortgage was extended by one year and 
two months, so the term would end in February 2025. Mr Ms 66th birthday was in April 
2024. Mr M signed the change agreement extending the term in November 2013. Mr M 
complains that the new term meant that he would be paying the mortgage into his 
retirement.
Mr M took out a number of fixed rate mortgage products during the mortgage term, the last 
one ending in March 2018. In April Mr M called NatWest to make an appointment for a 
mortgage product switch application. Mr M also enquired about the mortgage term and 
NatWest said that it would investigate this before getting back to him. But NatWest didnt get 
back and the mortgage continued on the SVR, In June 2019 Mr M asked for a redemption 
statement and he redeemed the mortgage in 2020.
Our investigator felt that NatWest should pay Mr M £100 compensation for its failure to 
return to him about the new mortgage product in 2018 but otherwise didnt recommend that 
this complaint should be upheld. NatWest accepted our investigators view, but Mr M 
disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to this complaint. Firstly, that Mr M was required to pay the mortgage 
beyond his 66th birthday which was his intended retirement date. The original mortgage term 
was set up being mindful that Mr M intended to retire at age 65. The decision to change the 
term appears to have been at the request of Mr M who asked that the term be extended by 
approximately one year. That led to a change of term agreement which Mr M signed so that 
the term would end 11 years and 2 months after 13 November 2013 which would be 
February 2025. That period was slightly more than a year and beyond the date of Mr Ms 
66th birthday. But it clearly suited Mr M at the time as he instigated the request and he 
agreed to it. 
Mr M suggests that he may have wanted a further change in 2015 so that the term end 
aligned with his 66th birthday. But I cant see evidence of this request but more significantly 
there is no further formal agreement to change the end date. I also appreciate there are 
some other documents which suggest the term ending in December 2024. But I believe that 
the most significant document is the change agreement of 30 October 2013 which NatWest 
suggested that Mr M sign with legal advice, and which Mr M signed on 8 November 2013 in 
two places. That must represent the intention of the parties at that the time which was that 
the term end in February 2025. The term end may not have aligned with Mr Ms 66th 
birthday but by signing this document Mr M agreed that it wouldnt. So, I dont accept that 
this part of the complaint should be upheld.
The second complaint relates to Mr M not taking out a new fixed rate product with NatWest 
in 2018. Its accepted that Mr M contacted NatWest about an appointment for a new 
mortgage product application. At that time the issue of the mortgage term came up and 
NatWest agreed to contact Mr M but didnt. Mr Ms mortgage continued on the SVR. Clearly 
NatWest should have got back to Mr M. But, equally, If Mr M wanted an alternative rate to 
the SVR it was up to him to contact NatWest for a further appointment.
I understand that, unfortunately, Mr M was ill during this period for which he has my 
sympathy. But if he wanted to get an alternative rate, he needed to contact NatWest 
otherwise under the terms of the mortgage it would continue on the SVR. I accept there was 
poor service from NatWest, and I believe that it should pay compensation of £100 for Mr Ms 
upset which it has agreed to do. But I dont accept that it should recompense Mr M for being 
on the SVR. If Mr M wanted to get off the SVR, it was up to him to re-connect with NatWest 
to organise it. Im also mindful that as Mr M asked for a redemption statement in 2019, it 
might not have been in his interest to take out a fixed rate product in 2018 as this would 
have meant him paying an ERC on redemption. So, I dont uphold that part of the complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman