DRN-3621341
The complaint
Mr S and Ms S complain DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) have 
wrongly refused to pay their claim for loss of rent under their Legal Expenses Insurance 
(LEI) Policy.
What happened
Mr S and Ms S had cover for rent arrears as part of their LEI policy with DAS. The policy 
started on 24 February 2021. When their tenants fell into arrears, they made a claim. DAS 
declined to pay the claim on grounds there was no cover since the rent arrears began in 
early May, within 90 days of the policy taking effect, and Mr S and Ms S hadnt notified them 
of the claim until mid-August, outside the 90 day period set out in the policy. 
Mr S and Ms S said the arrears began to accrue in June, which was more than 90 days after 
the policy started. And since theyd made their claim in August, they were within the 90-day 
period for making the claim. They were also unhappy with how their claim had been handled.
DAS didnt uphold Mr S and Ms Ss complaint, so they brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator thought the evidence showed the claim arose in May 2021 
and DAS had been right to say there was no cover. And she thought the £100 DAS had 
offered Mr S and Ms S was fair to compensate them for the delays DAS had acknowledged. 
Since Mr S and Ms S didnt agree, their complaints been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mr S and Ms S have had with their tenants. I can see 
theyre owed a considerable amount in rent. But, having considered their complaint carefully, 
I dont think DAS have unfairly declined their claim, as Ill explain.
We expect a LEI insurer to consider claims promptly and fairly and not to reject a claim 
unfairly. Against that background, the starting point for considering Mr S and Ms Ss 
complaint, is the policy itself. 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the policy, DAS provide cover where, amongst other 
things, the date of occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of insurance and 
any claim is reported to DAS during the period of insurance and as soon as Mr S and Ms S 
become aware of an incident which could give rise to a claim.
DAS said Mr S and Ms Ss claim was an insured incident under section 5 Tenant Default 
of the policy. But they declined the claim on grounds the date of occurrence of the insured 
incident was within the first 90 days of cover.
Date of occurrence is defined in the policy, for rent arrears, as the first date that any of the 
rent due under the terms of the tenancy agreement (or any other amount agreed between 
you or your tenant) is not paid, unless this event and any other event leading to a claim 
have arisen from the same originating cause in which case the date of occurrence will be 
the first of these events. 
This is a term commonly found in LEI policies, which we dont generally consider to be 
unfair. Where there is more than one incident that leads to a claim on the policy, the first of 
those is the relevant date for determining the date of occurrence. Mr S and Ms S say the rent 
arrears should be treated has having started in June 2021. But Im satisfied the evidence 
shows arrears began to accrue from early May 2021 and built up from then on. Since the 
first date any of the rent due wasnt paid was May 2021, thats the date of occurrence under 
the policy terms.
The policy excludes cover where Any disagreement with your tenant when the date of 
occurrence is within the first 90 days of the first period of insurance and the tenancy 
agreement started before the start of this policy unless equivalent legal expenses and tenant 
default insurance was continuously in force.
The policy began on 24 February 2021, and arrears began in early May. That means the 
date of occurrence which led to Mr S and Ms Ss dispute with the tenants was within the first 
90 days of the policy. So, its excluded under the policy unless Mr S and Ms S had 
equivalent legal expenses and tenant default insurance in force before the policy started. Im 
not aware they did. Even if they had, I dont think it affects the outcome of their complaint, for 
reasons Ill explain below.   
Ive noted cover was provided on condition Mr S and Ms S reported the claim as soon as 
they became aware of an incident which could give rise to a claim. It was also a condition of 
the policy that claims must be reported within a specified period. It said:
Please note that all claims, other than claims under insurance incident 5 Tenant default, 
must be reported to us no more than 90 days after the date you should have known about 
the insured incident.
For claims under incident 5 Tenant default, please contact us if any part of the rent owed 
under the tenancy agreement is still unpaid 45 days after the date it was first due 
And the policy excluded Any claim reported to [DAS] more than 90 days after the date [Mr S 
and Ms S] should have known about the insured incident.
I think its reasonable to say that Mr S and Ms S ought to have known about the tenants 
failure to pay rent in May 2021. The statement of account they provided to DAS shows rent 
arrears started to accrue from then on without the tenants ever getting back up to date with 
payments. Under the policy they were required to tell DAS as soon as they were aware of 
any arrears as that was an incident that could give rise to a claim. Under the tenant default 
section, they should have contacted DAS within 45 days if any part of the rent was still 
unpaid, as it was here. And, since they didnt notify the claim until more than 90 days after 
the May rent wasnt paid in full, their claim was excluded. 
Mr S and Ms S say they werent able to take legal action against the tenants until there were 
two months arrears. But that doesnt affect their obligations to report the claim in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. So, I dont think that affects the fact they reported their claim 
too late. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mr S and Ms Ss claim is covered under the 
policy or that DAS have unfairly declined their claim.DAS acknowledged there were some delays in responding to Mr S and Ms Ss 
correspondence when they queried DASs decision to decline their claim in September 2021. 
DAS were reviewing their decision and making enquiries. But I can understand the delay 
was frustrating for Mr S and Ms S who were understandably concerned about the rent they 
were losing. In the circumstances, I think the £100 DAS have offered is fair compensation for 
the delays theyve acknowledged. And DAS should now pay that sum to Mr S and Ms S. 
Putting things right
DAS should now pay Mr S and Ms S the £100 compensation theyve offered for distress and 
inconvenience. Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr S and Ms S will be 
disappointed, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think DAS need to take any other action.
My final decision
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr S and Ms S £100 for 
distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman