DRN-3589743
The complaint
Mr T complains Leeds Building Society (Leeds) failed to provide him with a detailed closing 
statement on his Individual Savings Account, showing the interest paid and the penalty 
charged.
What happened
Mr T says he switched the type of his Individual Savings Account (ISA) with Leeds in 
January 2022. Mr T says he asked Leeds on several occasions to provide him with a full 
statement showing the interest he had earned up until that point, along with the interest 
penalty. 
Mr T says Leeds only sent him a mini statement and this didnt provide the information he 
needed. Mr T says Leeds informed him he had been sent a full statement on his ISA when it 
hadnt, and he then complained to the CEO given the poor service he had received. Mr T 
feels Leeds should have been able to send him a full closing statement, which he hasnt 
received, and given the time he has spent dealing with the matter wants Leeds to increase 
the compensation it has paid, from £50 to £250. 
Leeds says the information it provided in the mini statement it sent to Mr T, is the same as 
shown on a full statement. Leeds says as no interest had been applied, it wouldnt show on 
the statement only the net penalty amount. Leeds says it sent Mr T a manual breakdown of 
the interest earned, and the penalty charged. Leeds felt the £50 compensation it had 
awarded was fair here. 
Mr T wasnt happy with Leeds response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt there wouldnt have been a significant difference in the information contained 
in the mini statement Mr T received, to the full statement he requested. The investigator felt 
the statement provided sufficient information for Mr T to have been able to calculate the 
interest he would have accrued, before the penalty was charged. 
The investigator says that Leeds did provide Mr T with a written breakdown of the interest 
and penalty, although this wasnt its standard procedure. The investigator felt the 
compensation Leeds had paid Mr T of £50 was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision.
I can understand it would have been frustrating for Mr T to have asked for a full statement on 
his ISA when he switched to a new ISA with Leeds, but then to have only received a mini 
statement, which didnt provide him with the information he needed.
When looking at this complaint I will consider If Leeds were at fault when it sent the 
information it did on switching Mr Ts ISA, and if the compensation it has paid him, is 
sufficient here. 
Mr T is unhappy that when he switched his ISA with Leeds to another ISA product, it didnt 
provide him with details of interest he had accrued on the previous ISA or detail the penalty 
charged. Mr T says he requested a full statement and despite being told this had been sent, 
in fact Leeds only sent a mini statement, which didnt show the full breakdown of interest and 
penalty charge that he wanted. 
From the information I have seen the difference in information provided on the full statement 
compared to the mini statement Mr T had seen, wouldnt have provided him with the full 
breakdown he was looking for. So, its fair to say even if he had received that it wouldnt 
have provided Mr T with what he was looking for in any event. 
As Mr T had requested to switch his existing ISA to another with Leeds, he had incurred a 
penalty of £150 which meant in this case, was more than the accrued interest he had built, 
leaving a negative charge of £34.93, which is what his statement correctly shows. While I 
understand that Mr T would prefer to see a closing statement on his ISA detailing these 
entries individually, having looked at the terms and conditions of the account, I cant see that 
is something Leeds agreed to provide. 
While Mr T may not be happy with that, its not my role to tell Leeds what processes it must 
put in place when one ISA is switched to another ISA product. 
That said, I am pleased to see that Leeds have issued a letter to Mr T at the beginning of 
March 2022, which does provide the breakdown he requested. All I would say is that it would 
have been simpler if Leeds had made that clearer earlier on. 
Leeds have recognised the service it offered at the time could have been better, and paid Mr 
T £50 in recognition of that. 
With that in mind, I am satisfied Leeds havent made any errors here, its more of a case it 
couldnt provide the breakdown Mr T wanted in the statements it provided. So, while Mr T 
may not agree, I cant tell Leeds what systems and processes it must adopt on those 
occasions. It follows, I am satisfied the £50 compensation Leeds paid Mr T is reasonable 
here, for the time it took them to provide the breakdown he wanted. 
While Mr T will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Leeds here.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Barry WhiteOmbudsman