DRN-2364731
The complaint
Mr J complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold him a mortgage endowment policy.
What happened
Around 1989, Mr J took out a mortgage endowment policy with Zurich. This was surrendered 
in the 1990s.
In 2019, Mr J complained (via a representative) that the policy had been mis-sold. In 
summary, he said he was led to believe hed receive a lump sum on top of repaying his 
mortgage; he didnt want to take any risk repaying his mortgage; and he would have opted 
for a repayment mortgage if given the option. But Zurich said the risk would have been 
explained  and that his circumstances suggested the policy was suitable for him. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr J referred the matter to our service. His representative 
explained that his income from the time was a guesstimate as he was working abroad so 
couldnt provide proof of income. And that Zurich had told him that the only option available 
was a self-certified mortgage requiring a substantial deposit. They also said Mr J was told 
that mortgage protection was compulsory, and reiterated that he was unaware of the risk  
which they say made the policy unsuitable.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He acknowledged there was limited information 
available given how long ago the policy was sold and surrendered. Based on what was 
available, he thought it more likely that Mr J would have been made aware of the low-risk the 
policy was seen to carry  and that he could have tolerated this. 
Mr J has requested an ombudsmans decision. His representative reiterated that this was the 
only option presented, and that he didnt want to take any risk repaying his mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
We dont have much information about the sale. I dont consider that surprising or 
unreasonable given that this took place in 1989  and that the records suggest the policy 
was surrendered in the early 1990s. In situations like this where the available information is 
unclear or incomplete, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Mr J says he was told that the policy would pay a lump sum on top of repaying his 
mortgage. Although the aim of the investment would have been to perform well enough to 
do this, I havent seen anything to substantiate that he was told this was guaranteed.
Similarly, I havent seen anything to show he wasnt made aware of the risk of the policy  
which, at the time of sale, would have been seen as a low-risk investment suitable for most 
people. To the contrary, Mr J has said in his questionnaire that he switched to a repayment 
mortgage in the 1990s as he "wanted a guaranteed method of paying the mortgage". That 
suggests he was aware of the risk. So on balance, Im not upholding these points.
Mr Js representative has told us that he was only offered a self-certified mortgage with a 
substantial deposit due to being unable to certify his income. They say they feel this shows 
that the endowment was the only option presented and was compulsory. But Zurich wasnt 
the lender, and Mr J has since said that he didnt have any difficulty obtaining a mortgage. 
Hes mentioned speaking to various agents. On the basis of this testimony, I cant safely 
conclude that Zurich misadvised Mr J about his options. Id also explain that the mortgage 
protection which his representative said was compulsory isnt a separate product that he was 
sold; it refers to the life cover that it is an intrinsic part of the endowment policy.
Mr J also says the level of risk wasnt suitable for him, and that this wasnt properly 
assessed. I know he thinks the onus should lie with Zurich to demonstrate this. But as the 
person raising the allegation, there is a duty on him to support what hes said. I cant uphold 
the allegation solely due to a lack of evidence to refute it. Im conscious that there is a 
reasonable explanation for why Zurich has limited information (i.e. the time thats passed). 
So as previously mentioned, I must weigh up what is available to decide whats more likely 
to have happened.
As I dont know whether or how Mr Js attitude to risk was assessed during the sale, Ive 
considered what hes told about his circumstances  to see whether its likely that he would 
have been able and willing to take a low risk with the repayment of his mortgage. Ive 
considered that he says he had no tolerance for risk. But I cant solely rely on his recollection 
of an event so long ago, and I cant look at this complaint with the benefit of hindsight. 
I know the representative has said that Mr J wouldnt have wanted to face any uncertainty 
when the policy matured as he would be in his 50s. But I think its relevant that he would 
have been economically active when this happened, which would have likely made it easier 
for him to make up any shortfall. From what Mr J has told us, he was anticipating that hed 
work for around eight years after the policy matured. Taking this into account, as well as the 
level of borrowing and the income Mr J reported on his questionnaire, I think he could take a 
low risk  given, as mentioned above, that these policies were reasonably seen as suitable 
for most people at the time of sale. 
Ive also considered whether Mr J has shown, on balance, that he didnt want to take the low 
risk of a shortfall on his mortgage. This could have been taken in exchange for the possibility 
of earning an additional lump sum and/or paying off his mortgage more cheaply. There are 
also some indications that the mortgage endowment may have enabled Mr J to get onto the 
property ladder, given that he needed a self-certifying mortgage. Ive also found some 
indications that Mr J was likely aware of the risk, and his circumstances dont suggest it was 
inherently unsuitable. So on balance, I cant safely conclude that Zurich didnt properly 
assess Mr Js attitude to risk. Or that a more comprehensive assessment would have found 
that the policy was unsuitable for Mr J. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr J. But based on the admittedly limited 
information available about the sale, Im not persuaded that Zurich mis-sold the endowment 
and so Im not upholding his complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman