DRN-1617340
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the length of time it took The Royal London Mutual Insurance 
Company Limited to consider a claim he made under his late fathers term assurance policy.  
What happened
Mr Ss late father took out a level term assurance policy with Royal London in 2016. He 
sadly passed away in May 2018 and Mr S contacted Royal London to make a claim. 
In May 2019 Royal London declined the claim because Mr Ss father had provided 
inaccurate information when he applied for the policy. Royal London said had the correct 
information been provided, Mr Ss father wouldnt have been offered cover. But given the 
specifics of the claim, and in recognition of the difficult time Mr S and his family had been 
through, Royal London offered Mr S £2,000 to settle the matter. 
Mr S complained to Royal London about the time it had taken to consider the claim. He said 
the delay had made it difficult for the family to pay for their fathers funeral. Whilst he 
accepted the £2,000 Royal London had offered, Mr S felt it should meet the cost of the 
funeral, given the delays and poor service hed received. 
Royal London didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint and felt the £2,000 offered was fair. It said 
when its concerned the information provided as part of the application process impacts 
upon the validity of a claim, it needs to make sure all the relevant information is requested 
and fully considered. Royal London accepted this had taken some time, but was satisfied it 
had done all it could to progress matters. 
Mr S didnt agree with Royal London and so asked our service to look into his complaint. He 
maintained that Royal Londons poor handling of the claim caused him and his family both 
emotional and financial distress. One of our investigators considered the case but didnt 
uphold it. He thought the delays in processing the claim werent caused by Royal London, 
And he felt the £2,000 offered by Royal London was fair. 
Mr S didnt agree with our investigator and so his case has been passed to me to review.
He said the customer service hed received from Royal London was poor. And that it 
couldve made a decision on the claim much sooner. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Mr S, as this has been a very difficult time for him and his 
family. But Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In reaching my outcome Ive not looked at whether Royal Londons decision not to pay
Mr Ss claim was fair, as that isnt the complaint Mr S has raised. My review focuses on 
Royal Londons handling of that claim and the time it took to reach its decision.    
Royal London accepts it took a long time to consider Mr Ss claim. This was mainly due to 
the concerns Royal London had about the validity of the claim, based on the information
Mr Ss father provided in his application for the policy back in 2016. 
Royal London needed to make enquiries of Mr Ss fathers GP, Primary Care Support 
England (PCSE) and Mr Ss family. Such enquiries dont seem excessive or unnecessary to 
me, and are what Id expect to see in similar cases where concerns about a claims validity 
have been raised. So, I dont think Royal London could, or should, have made its decision 
on Mr Ss claim any sooner than it did.  
I can see from the timeline of events there was some delay in Royal London receiving the 
information itd requested from the GP and PCSE. But I cant agree this is because of any 
failings by Royal London. Royal London requested the information in a timely manner, and 
chased the relevant bodies for a response. It also took the necessary steps to speed things 
up when delays had occurred, such as resending requests by recorded delivery. So, I think 
Royal London did all it reasonably could here.    
Royal London also kept Mr S informed throughout its consideration of the claim. I appreciate 
Mr S made a number of phone calls to Royal London to find out what was happening. And I 
completely understand why he wanted the claim dealt with as quickly as possible. But Royal 
London provided Mr S with meaningful responses to his update requests and explained, as 
best it could, what the current position was. 
Whilst theres no evidence to show failings by Royal London contributed to the delay in
Mr Ss claim being considered, its recognised the unfortunateness of the situation and 
offered him £2,000. I appreciate this doesnt cover the cost of Mr Ss fathers funeral. But 
given Royal London cant be held accountable for the delay in the claim being considered, 
this seems to me to be a very fair offer. So, I wont be asking Royal London to pay any 
more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and the 
estate of Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman