DRN-3901521
The complaint
Mr H complains that a Santander UK Plc credit card account was fraudulently opened in his 
name, and is unhappy that adverse information regarding that account has been recorded 
on his credit file.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr H received a letter regarding a small outstanding balance on a Santander 
credit card. Mr H contacted Santander and said he was unaware of this account and had not 
opened it himself.
Santander investigated the matter and said it had no reason to suspect the application for
the account wasnt genuine. By this stage Mr H had paid the outstanding balance of the 
card, but he was unhappy that his credit file showed several months of missed payments, 
and maintained that he had not opened the credit card himself.
Our Investigator looked at the complaint, and based on what theyd seen, they didnt think 
Santander had acted unreasonably. They considered that the evidence suggested Mr H had 
opened the credit card himself, and that he had been aware of the outstanding balance on 
the card. The Investigator therefore considered Santander had acted reasonably in reporting 
adverse information about the account on Mr Hs credit file.
Mr H didnt agree. He questioned why, if he had opened the card himself, it had not ever 
been used for payments. Mr H also maintained that he had not been told he needed to make 
any payment to the card and had been led to believe that charges would be stopped on the 
card while Santanders fraud investigation was ongoing.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and for largely the
same reasons.
The account was opened online in December 2021 and the applicant provided Mr Hs name, 
phone number, address, email address, and employment details. Santander then sent the 
new card and PIN to Mr Hs home address. Santander has also provided evidence that 
numerous further letters about the account were then sent to Mr H at his home address, 
including regular statements and arrears notices.
Mr H says he was unaware of the card until July 2022. But its difficult to see how both the 
card and the PIN, and the subsequent monthly statements could all have been intercepted 
and kept from Mr H given that they were sent to his home address. And the amount of 
accurate information given to Santander when the account was opened does support that it 
was Mr H who opened this account.
Mr H has questioned why he would have opened an account and then never used it, but the 
alternative is, in my mind, even more unlikely. Why would a fraudster go to the trouble of 
opening a fraudulent account and intercepting the card, PIN, and other correspondence, only 
to not then make any use of the large credit facility available? In fact, no purchases were 
ever made on this card, the balance consisted entirely of the monthly account fees applied in 
May, June and July and one late payment fee of £15 applied in July. 
I note that Mr H says he was not told he needed to maintain payments to the account, and 
that he was told that any further charges would be stopped while the fraud investigation was 
ongoing. But Mr H had evidently already cancelled the direct debit for the credit card before 
he made contact with Santander  I can see that no direct debit payment was made to the 
card in June 2022 so it had already been cancelled by that stage. And when Mr H contacted 
Santander no further charges were applied from that point onwards, the last charge was 
added on 13 July, before Mr H made contact. But that didnt mean that the existing 
outstanding balance was no longer due. And the statements that Santander continued to 
send to Mr H made it clear that payment of that balance was still due.  
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr H hoped for. But, taking into account everything Ive seen,
I cant say Santander has done anything wrong. With the evidence available, I dont think it
was unreasonable for Santander to hold Mr H liable for the outstanding balance of this 
account or for it to have recorded adverse information on his credit file for the four months 
that no payments were made. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman