DRN-3450388
The complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt provide him with the service it should have 
when he tried to make an overseas payment through its online secure banking facility. He 
says this resulted in a financial loss of over £2,200 as well as a lot of stress and 
inconvenience. 
What happened
Mr P wanted to make a payment from his HSBC EUR account to an overseas account for 
the deposit on a property. He chose to make the payment through the online banking 
system. Mr P converted funds and moved them from his sterling account to his EUR account 
in mid-December 2020. On 30 December he says he submitted his payment request for 
€45,000. The transaction didnt complete even after he had confirmed it wasnt fraudulent 
and Mr P says he wasnt contacted about this. He contacted HSBC on 4 January and says 
he was told he had failed the fraud check and would need to visit a UK branch. Mr P says he 
explained this wasnt possible as he was overseas. He says he contacted HSBC again and 
was told he could visit a HSBC branch in the country he was in but when he tried to arrange 
this he was told he had been given inaccurate advice.
Mr P says he risked losing out on the property and so had to convert his money again and 
transfer funds to another currency account. He says this issue caused his stress, risked him 
losing his purchase and caused him a financial loss of over £2,200 due to the conversion 
costs. He also says that the transaction remained pending on his account for a number of 
months even though he had asked for this to be cancelled.
HSBC says that it has enhanced security arrangements for high value payments and that 
customers can be asked to attend a local branch. It says that Mr Ps transaction was alerted 
for fraud checks and it was explained that security reset could happen if Mr P attended a 
local branch with photographic identification and called with a branch member present. It 
said it had followed the correct procedure.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that HSBC had followed its procedures 
and had provided Mr P with an alternative option of visiting the overseas branch to reset his 
security.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that being told to visit the overseas 
branch wasnt an alternative option as the overseas branches couldnt carry out the 
verification check needed. He said that the procedure for overseas verification didnt work 
and that the overseas banks said they had told HSBC UK this wasnt something they could 
do.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
When dealing with a customers order to make a money transfer the bank acts as the 
customers agent in executing the instruction. An agent owes a principal a duty to 
exercise reasonable skill and care in carrying out the principals instructions. Given 
this I found it reasonable that when Mr Ps transaction was flagged by HSBCs 
security systems he was contacted to confirm the transaction. 
Against the banks duty of care, it has a contractual duty to execute a valid and 
proper order to execute its customers instruction. If it doesnt do so promptly, its 
liable for any consequential loss to its customer. 
In this case, security checks took place and Mr P provided reasonable answers. 
Further concerns were raised and I didnt think that HSBC then provided the service 
it should have. Mr P was told on 31 December that he didnt need to visit a branch 
and the fraud team had confirmed him as genuine. He wasnt then alerted to further 
issues until he called on 4 January and he then wasnt provided with reasonable 
solutions to make his payment. On the calls on 4 January, HSBC didnt seem to take 
into account the information Mr P had provided - and been provided with - on the 
calls prior to this. 
HSBC followed its process by telling Mr P to go to a branch, but this was an unusual 
time given lockdown and that Mr P was overseas. Given the need for the transaction 
to be completed in a timely way I think HSBC should have done more to assist Mr P. 
Mr P asked to cancel his transaction and carried out an alternative transaction so as 
not to miss out on the opportunity to buy the property and lose money he had already 
invested in the process. I understood why he felt he needed to do this as HSBC 
wasnt confirming that his transaction would be processed and the options he had 
been provided with werent workable for him. 
I didnt think HSBC provided the service it should have. Had it done so I thought it 
more likely than not that the transaction could have been processed. Because of this 
I thought HSBC should refund Mr P any consequential losses arising from the need 
to complete his transaction through a different account. Mr P would need to provide 
evidence to show the time critical nature of the transaction and the consequential 
losses that arose. I noted some information has been provided.
This issue caused Mr P stress and inconvenience and I thought HSBC should pay 
Mr P £250 compensation because of this.
Mr P accepted my provisional decision. HSBC didnt.
HSBC said that when Mr P called on 31 December this was in regard to his internet banking 
being blocked and there was no mention of the payment being processed in this call. It noted 
that Mr P would have been able to see through his online banking that the payment hadnt 
been processed.
On the call on 4 January HSBC said Mr P failed the security question and so it was right to 
refer him to a branch. It said it followed its procedures. It said it was Mr Ps choice to make 
the payment through another bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I can understand why Mr P is upset by the issues he experienced when trying to make an 
overseas payment. These issues caused him inconvenience and stress and he ended up 
needing to convert currency more than once as he carried out his transaction through 
another route. 
I note HSBCs comments in response to my provisional decision. I have listened to the calls 
again. As I have previously noted, on 31 December, the day after the transaction was put in 
place, Mr P had a call with HSBC on which he said he was sent a text about the transaction 
and had responded to this. He was asked several questions about the transaction and he 
answered these. Mr P answered the questions clearly and without hesitation and so I dont 
think his responses should have raised concerns. At the end of the call Mr P was told that 
further checks would take place and then his payment released. So, I think at this point he 
would have expected the transaction to go ahead.
There was then a further call and I note HSBCs comment about this being in regard to 
Mr Ps internet banking. But on this call after talking with the fraud team, the adviser told 
Mr P his account had been unblocked and Mr P didnt need to visit a branch following the 
fraud team confirmation of genuine. Therefore, while I note HSBCs comment I think this call 
would have resulted in Mr P thinking any issues had been resolved and expecting that his 
transaction would take place.
I appreciate that Mr P could see his transaction hadnt happened, but I dont think this means 
he wasnt expecting it to take place. By 4 January when the transaction still hadnt happened 
he called HSBC. HSBC has said that Mr P failed security on this call which was why he was 
told to visit a branch. However, the call note provided from this date refers to Mr P being 
previously referred to visit a branch which could be linked to the situation the few days 
earlier which Mr P had been told had been resolved. I do not have information about the 
failed security on 4 January but note on one call the adviser tried to carry out verification, but 
the system wouldnt allow this due to the reference to Mr P needing to visit a branch. 
Therefore, on balance, it appears the issue of the branch visit hadnt been resolved as Mr P 
had been led to believe on the call on 31 December and I dont think HSBC did enough to 
recognise the previous information Mr P had been given when he raised this.
Mr P explained the issues with visiting a branch and the need for the transaction to take 
place in a timely way. I accept that HSBC has procedures in place, and these are for it to 
determine. But in this case, given the information Mr P had been previously provided with 
and the processes he had gone through, I think it should have done more to assist Mr P as 
he was put in a position where he couldnt use his money to make his transaction. 
Overall, I dont think Mr P was provided with the service he should have been, and this 
resulted in him not being able to make his transaction in the timeframe he needed so he took 
an alternative action. This was his choice but as he has explained he would lose out on the 
property if he didnt make the transaction and had already incurred costs in regard to this I 
can see he would have felt he had no choice but to take the action he did.
So, while I appreciate the points HSBC has made, in this case I dont think it provided the 
service it should have and had it done so, Mr Ps transaction would more likely than not have 
taken place. Therefore, my conclusions havent changed, and I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
HSBC UK Bank Plc should:
refund Mr P any consequential losses arising from the need to carry out the 
transaction through a difference currency account, that is the costs involved in exchanging his currency for a transaction that then didnt take place. 
Evidence has been provided to show the costs incurred by Mr P exchanging his 
money into EUR in mid-December and then exchanging it back after the transaction 
didnt happen in January and based on this evidence Mr Ps calculated costs are 
£2,655; and
pay Mr P £250 for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should take the actions 
set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman