DRN-4328797
The complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) wont refund money he lost, 
which he believes was as the result of an Authorised Push Payment (APP scam).
What happened
The circumstances which led to this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont  
repeat them in detail here. But, in summary, I understand them to be as follows.
In or around early 2022, Mr M was looking to have some building work completed on his 
property. A friend of Mr Ms gave him some details of a group on a well-known social media 
platform, which he looked into and from which he was then contacted by a builder.
The builder provided Mr M with pictures of work hed carried out and visited Mr Ms home to 
discuss the work that Mr M wanted to be done, following which Mr M was provided with a 
quote. Mr M decided to go ahead with the work and between February 2022 and August 
2022, made a number of payments to the builder, totalling just over £34,000, from the 
account he held with RBS.
But Mr M has said the work the builder subsequently carried out was not completed to a high 
standard and it wasnt in line with the building plans or regulations. Hes added that the 
builder didnt use the correct materials and he also paid for some materials that were never 
received. Mr M has said due to the poor quality of the work and wrong materials being used 
he had to employ different builders to put things right and complete the work. Mr M added 
that the builder had agreed with him to refund £10,000 of the money, but he never received it 
and that he received threats from the builder.
As a result Mr M has told us that he took legal proceedings against the builder and a 
judgement was made in his favour and he was awarded monies. However, hes said the 
builder declared bankruptcy and he hasnt received any of the compensation the builder was 
ordered to pay. Mr M has added that he is aware of other families who have raised scam 
reports against the builder and that he is being investigated by Trading Standards.
Mr M believed he had been the victim of a scam, so he raised the matter with RBS. RBS 
considered its obligations under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM code), of 
which it is a signatory. It looked into Mr Ms complaint and sent its final  response, not 
upholding his complaint. In summary, it considered this was a civil dispute  between Mr M 
and the builder, so this wasnt covered by the CRM code.
Unhappy with RBSs response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service and one of our 
Investigators looked into things, but our Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. In  
summary he also concluded this was a civil matter between Mr M and the builder. He said 
this because he didnt think there was enough evidence to suggest that the builder had set 
out to defraud Mr M, he said he could see that some services had been provided by the 
builder, albeit they turned out to be defective.
Mr M didnt agree with our Investigators view. In summary, he strongly maintained that hed 
been the victim of a scam. As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided,  
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts.
I note that Mr M has referred to other customers of the builder who hes said are pursuing 
the recovery of money (or indeed have received some money back). But I think its important 
to note that my decision solely focusses on the payments that Mr M has made.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to  
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;  
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry  
practice at the time.
Having thought very carefully about RBSs actions, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. I do 
appreciate how disappointing this will be for him and I dont underestimate his strength of  
feeling, but I dont think I can fairly say RBS should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr M, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned to him. But not all cases where individuals have 
lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the  
Lending Standards Boards voluntary CRM Code, which RBS has signed up to and was in 
force at the time Mr M made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all 
push payments. It says:
DS2(2) This code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint.
Both the bank and our Investigator felt the payments Mr M made formed part of a civil 
dispute and, as such, are not covered by the CRM Code. Mr M disagrees. He feels the  
builder has scammed him.In order to conclude that the payments Mr M made were part of a scam, Id need to be  
reasonably satisfied, from the available evidence, that the builder he was using set out to 
defraud him. But I dont think, based on what I know, that I can safely conclude that.
Its clear the agreement Mr M entered into with the builder did not go as planned and he has 
not received what he was expecting. I can understand entirely why he feels so strongly 
about what has happened. There may even have been some sharp practice in terms of how 
the builder carried out the work and it doesnt seem to be in doubt, considering Mr M had to 
employ different builders to put things right, that the work wasnt completed to a standard 
that Mr M could reasonably have expected.
But I cant safely say, with what I know, that the builder set out with an intent to defraud him. 
I say this because there was work carried out, at least to an extent. This is confirmed with  
Mr Ms own representations, although as Ive said, I dont doubt the works werent carried 
out to the standards Mr M expected.
Im also mindful that Mr M wasnt cold called which, while not always, can often be the case  
with rogue trader scams - where people can often be contacted out of the blue and 
pressured into having work done that they may not want / require. Here, Mr M was looking 
for a builder, agreed a price and some work was carried out.
I can see that Mr M continued to be able to communicate with the builder after the final 
payment had been made and at one stage the builder appears to have voluntarily offered to 
return some of the money (albeit this wasnt honoured). This is not typically the case with 
fraudsters, who more often than not, once in receipt of a victims money, will not carry out 
any work at all and will then no longer be contactable, but that doesnt seem to be the case 
here.
Whilst I am unable to share details about a third party and the nature of their relationship 
with their bank. The evidence Ive seen from the beneficiary bank, regarding the beneficiary 
account, indicates that the builder had successfully carried out similar activities for other 
customers, without any concerns being raised.
After taking everything into careful consideration, so the testimony and evidence provided by 
both parties, on balance, I cant safely conclude what has happened here meets the high 
legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a builder, 
failing to honour its agreement by not providing the quality of work that its customer 
expected.
It follows that, on balance and based on the evidence currently available to me, I cant fairly 
or reasonably say that, based on what I know, the builder set out with the intent to defraud 
Mr M. This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant ask RBS to 
refund Mr M the money he paid to the builder, as I dont think RBS treated Mr M unfairly 
when it said the payments he made were not covered by the CRM Code.
Finally, I am very mindful that there is an ongoing Trading Standards investigation and that 
the Police are assisting in this investigation. But this, in and of itself, isnt enough for me to 
conclude that a fraud has taken place and I am not aware that there have been any charges 
brought or any convictions. For the reasons Ive given, as it stands, there is not enough 
information for me to safely say this is a scam. However, should new material evidence 
come to light, the first port of call for Mr M would be to go back to the Bank for them to see if 
this new evidence would lead it to reconsidering its position.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman