DRN-3397512
The complaint
M, a limited company, complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) hasnt given it a working 
card. M is represented by its director, Mr O.
What happened
M tried to use its card in a petrol station and it didnt work. M says it previously had issues 
with the card not allowing withdrawals from cash machines.
M complained to Barclays and it ordered a new card and felt the complaint was resolved. 
M couldnt use the new card, and felt the complaint shouldnt have been closed.
M brought its complaint to this service and an investigator looked into things. Initially they felt 
the complaint should be upheld as they couldnt see the new card had worked.
Barclays disagreed and sent in proof Ms old card had worked in a cash machine previously, 
and didnt think it had done anything wrong. The investigator considered this new information 
and changed their outcome.
The investigator thought Ms complaint shouldnt be upheld. M disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to decide things.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call M had with our investigator.
I have no reason to disbelieve M when it says the card it has doesnt work in cash machines. 
But I cant see anything to suggest this is Barclays fault. Barclays has shown Ms old card 
works in shops and online, and I can see it has worked, at times, in cash machines.
M says it tried to use the card in a petrol station and it didnt work. Ive looked on Ms 
statements and can see a card purchase on the same day. Im satisfied this purchase was in 
a physical retailer rather than online or by telephone.
I cant see anything to suggest a payment failed on the day in question. Its possible there 
was something wrong with the petrol stations payment system. Im satisfied M was able to 
use its card in a retailer the same day as the unsuccessful purchase.
M says the problems been going on for many years. I can only look at whats happened 
around Ms complaint to Barclays.
Ive looked at Ms statements and it often uses the card to make purchases, several times a 
day. The same month M complained to Barclays there are over 60 card transactions, 
including two cash machine withdrawals. 
I would expect Ms card to not work at all, rather than work intermittently. Looking at the card 
purchase on the same day, and the many purchases around that date, it suggests the petrol 
station payment failure was possibly a temporary problem.
I cant explain exactly why Ms card hasnt worked at times in cash machines, but I can look 
at what Barclays did when M complained to it.
Although there was a bit of delay before Barclays ordered a new card, because it closed the 
complaint too early, I dont think this was an unreasonable delay. And Ms card was working 
for purchases anyway, so I dont think the delay caused a loss to M.
M says the new card has never worked, and I can see its not been used. But the old card is 
working. M had been able to show branch staff the old card wasnt working in a cash 
machine, but I cant see thats been done with the new card.
I dont have anything to show the new card doesnt work, only that its not been used.
M says not being able to use the card has meant it lost out on work contracts and wants 
Barclays to pay for this loss in income.
Whilst I agree not having the card working in a cash machine would be inconvenient, M was 
able to use the card for purchases. I dont think I could fairly ask Barclays to pay for any loss 
of income where I dont think Barclays is at fault.
Barclays has given M access to its account and the money in it, and its clear the card works 
in shops, both contactless and using the physical card and has worked in cash machines. 
I dont doubt M has, at times, been unable to use cash machines, but I cant see this is 
Barclays fault.
Since I cant see Barclays has stopped Ms card working entirely, I cant fairly hold it 
responsible for any loss M has experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Chris Russ
Ombudsman