DRN-3314988
The complaint
Mr F acquired a new car in November 2019, by means of a 36 month hire agreement with 
LEASYS UK LTD. He complains that his car did not correspond to its description as 
advertised. He also complains that his car was also not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. 
Mr F wants Leasys: to accept rejection of his car; to refund in full all payments he has made; 
to remove any adverse information it may have recorded on his credit file; and to pay him 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. 
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 1 February 2022, as follows.
Background 
Mr F said he initially complained about problems with his car to the supplying dealership and 
the manufacturer, but without success. He then contacted Leasys in December 2019.
Leasys addressed Mr Fs concern that his car was not the model that he had seen 
advertised, and that he believed he had agreed with the supplying dealership to acquire. 
Leasys compared the description of Mr Fs car in the dealers invoice with that in its 
agreement with him. It found these descriptions to be the same  and, on this basis, it felt 
unable to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F took his car to a manufacturers main dealer (not the supplying dealership) in 
March 2020 for inspection. The main dealer provided a courtesy car, and repairs of his car 
were undertaken. But Mr F said he did not authorise these repairs, and he made clear that 
he wanted to reject his car. 
The dealer advised Leasys that the car had been fully repaired, but Mr F would not collect it. 
Leasys was unwilling to accept rejection, but offered two options to Mr F in May 2020:
It would waive two of the monthly payments required under his agreement, if he 
agreed to collect his car
Early Termination (ET) of Mr Fs agreement, with a 50% reduction in the ET payment 
he would be required under his agreement to make in these circumstances
Mr F rejected both offers, and he referred his complaint to us in July 2020, with supporting 
evidence.  Leasys arranged for the car to be collected from the main dealer and proceeded 
with the ET option. 
Our investigator initially concluded that the complaint should not be upheld. He noted that, 
under current legislation:
A consumer may be able to reject a faulty car within 30 days of acquisition
Beyond this period, a consumer may still be able to reject a faulty car, after the 
supplier has had the opportunity to repair it, and if that repair is unsuccessful  but it 
appeared that Mr Fs car had been successfully repaired, and so Leasys did not 
respond unfairly when it declined rejection of his car
Our investigator also initially concluded that the offers made by Leasys, as alternatives to 
rejection, were fair and reasonable. Leasys applied the 50% ET payment to Mr Fs 
agreement account, and it recorded this outstanding balance on his credit file.
  
In response to these initial conclusions, Mr F pointed to evidence showing that the variant of 
the type of car he saw advertised and ordered, was different to the variant delivered to him. 
He added that, if he had known at the outset a different variant would be delivered, then he 
would not have ordered the car in the first place. 
The differences between specifications of the variant Mr F wanted and the variant that was 
delivered appear to explain why he considered the car delivered did not correspond to its 
description.
Mr F also complained about adverse information (relating to the 50% ET payment) recorded 
by Leasys on his credit file.
Our investigator reconsidered his conclusions. His revised conclusions were:
The car delivered to Mr F did not conform to its description as advertised, and as he 
had agreed with Leasys to acquire  and so his complaint should be upheld for this 
reason
Leasys should have agreed to the rejection of Mr Fs car, when he complained to it in 
December 2019  had Mr F been allowed to do so then, the issues that arose in 
spring 2020 (when Leasys again did not agree to his cars rejection) could have been 
avoided
Our investigator recommended:
Mr F should not be required to pay the outstanding balance on his agreement 
account (which relates to the issues that arose in spring 2020)
Leasys should remove the adverse information it recorded on his credit file relating to 
this outstanding balance
Leasys accepted our investigators revised conclusions and recommendations. It also 
offered Mr F compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience, in full and final resolution 
of his complaint.
 
Mr F similarly accepted our investigators conclusions and settlement recommendations. But 
he did not accept the compensation offer made by Leasys. The settlement he was seeking 
comprised:
Full refund of all payments made
Removal of adverse information recorded on his credit file
Payment of compensation for the distress and inconvenience sufferedMr F told us that:
He had already made payments totalling a little under £4,200 to Leasys
His car had only travelled 8.9% of the mileage permitted by his agreement
The payments due over the full 36 months of his agreement amounted to just over 
£8,500, 8.9% of which is just over £750
The minimum acceptable settlement was roundly £3,450 (£4,200 less £750)
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
My provisional findings
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Leasys has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and corresponding to 
their description, have been supplied. The goods delivered to Mr F did not correspond to 
their description, for which Leasys are required to accept responsibility.
Leasys and Mr F might have agreed to have his car replaced when he complained to it, just 
a few weeks after taking delivery. But Leasys wrongly decided against replacement or 
rejection at that time.  Replacement might not have been practical in spring 2020, but Leasys 
once more wrongly decided against rejection. 
This means I have come to the same conclusions as our investigator, for similar reasons. 
Mr F had use of his car for four months, up to when he took his car to the main dealer. And it 
would be fair and reasonable to assume that he gained benefit from using the car during this 
period.
But Mr F says the car was faulty.  And this appears to be confirmed by the main dealers 
actions in repairing the car (albeit unauthorised by Mr F), as reported to us by Leasys.  
The cars faults imply that the benefit Mr F gained from it during these four months would 
have been impaired. His car might have been expected to travel 2,000 miles (4/36 of the 
mileage permitted by his agreement), but it only travelled between 1,600 miles (Mr Fs 
estimate  80% of the expected mileage) and 1,680 miles (the main dealers estimate  84% 
of the expected mileage).
I conclude from the above that Mr F did gain benefit over this period, but not full benefit. And 
so Leasys should retain payments made for this period (that is, payments made in 
December 2019 to March 2020, inclusive), but not full payments. This means that I agree 
with Mr F that the settlement recommended by our investigator should be increased.
Mr F told us that he had made payments to Leasys totalling a little under £4,200  and this 
figure is confirmed by the statement of his account provided to us by Leasys.
Putting things right
Leasys has already accepted our investigators recommendations that:
Mr F should not be required to pay the outstanding balance on his agreement 
account 
It should remove the adverse information it recorded on his credit file, relating to this 
outstanding balanceIn addition, I think it would be fair and reasonable:
For Leasys to retain 82% of four of the monthly payments, required under Mr Fs 
agreement (that is, discounted by 18% to reflect impaired benefit)
For Leasys to retain 82% of 4/36 of the required initial payment (that is, for 4 months 
of a 36-month agreement, discounted by 18% to reflect impaired benefit)
But for all other monies paid by Mr F to Leasys to be refunded, plus interest
Leasys has also offered Mr F compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience. There is 
information about compensation for non-financial loss on our public website, where we 
describe:
When we might award compensation for distress or inconvenience, damage to 
reputation, pain and suffering
What we take into account when deciding an award, where compensation is 
appropriate
Examples of awards for trouble and upset
I feel that compensation of £100 in this instance (as offered by Leasys) is appropriate, given 
the circumstances of Mr Fs complaint.  It is consistent with our approach to awarding 
compensation, and with those examples of awards.
My provisional decision and responses 
My provisional decision is that I uphold this complaint. My provisional settlement 
recommendations are that Leasys should:
Be allowed to retain 82% of four of the monthly payments, required under Mr Fs hire 
agreement with it
Be allowed also to retain 82% of 4/36 of the required initial payment 
Be required to refund all other monies paid to it by Mr F, plus interest at 8% per 
annum simple from the dates of payment to the date of settlement
Remove the adverse information it recorded on Mr Fs credit file, relating to the 
outstanding balance of his agreement account
Pay directly to Mr F compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Mr F has replied accepting my decision. Leasys has acknowledged receipt of my decision, 
but it has made no further comments or offered any further evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr F nor Leasys have offered further comments or evidence, and Mr F has agreed 
with my decision. In these circumstances, I see no reason to change that decision.
Putting things right
As noted in my provisional decision, Leasys has already accepted our investigators 
recommendations that:
Mr F should not be required to pay the outstanding balance on his agreement 
account 
It should remove the adverse information it recorded on his credit file, relating to this 
outstanding balanceAnd as also noted in my provisional decision, I think it would be fair and reasonable in 
addition:
For Leasys to retain 82% of four of the monthly payments, required under Mr Fs 
agreement (that is, discounted by 18% to reflect impaired benefit)
For Leasys to retain 82% of 4/36 of the required initial payment (that is, for 4 months 
of a 36-month agreement, discounted by 18% to reflect impaired benefit)
But for all other monies paid by Mr F to Leasys to be refunded, plus interest
And as further noted in my provisional decision, I think that Mr F should receive 
compensation of £100 as well (as offered by Leasys).
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order that LEASYS UK LTD:
1. Be allowed to retain  
a. 82% of four of the monthly payments, required under Mr Fs hire agreement 
with it
b. 82% of 4/36 of the required initial payment 
2. Be required   
a. to refund all other monies paid to it by Mr F, plus interest at 8% per annum 
simple from the dates of payment to the date of settlement
b. to remove the adverse information it recorded on Mr Fs credit file, relating to 
the outstanding balance of his agreement account
c. to pay directly to Mr F compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
If Leasys considers that it has to deduct tax from the interest element of my award, it should 
send Mr F a tax deduction certificate when it pays him. He can then try to reclaim the tax, if 
he is entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman