DRN-3045149
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) closed his account 
and recorded a default marker on his credit file.
What happened
Mr B had a bank account with Halifax with an overdraft limit of £250. When he exceeded this
limit, Halifax sent reminders and a formal demand in June and July 2018. In October 2018,
Halifax closed the account and recorded a default because Mr B hadnt brought the balance
within the agreed overdraft limit. The account was repaid in full by June 2019.
In October 2020, Mr B contacted Halifax to make a complaint. He felt that the account
should not be recorded as defaulted on his credit file. He also said he didnt know anything
about this at the time and it was affecting his application for a mortgage.
Halifax responded to Mr Bs complaint on 28 October 2020. They upheld the complaint
because they said they should have defaulted the account in September 2017 based on the
formal demand letter sent in July 2017. They paid Mr B £200 and also £73.85 for fees. They
also amended the default date. They said that Mr B may not have received the letters sent
because he hadnt updated his address with them. But they didnt feel theyd done anything
wrong here as they told him he could update it in branch.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. The investigator felt that the default
marker had been applied correctly and didnt ask them to do anything differently. She noted
that Halifax corrected the date of the default and paid him compensation. Mr B didnt agree
with the view and felt the default should be removed completely.
Since the investigator issued their view, Halifax have said that their final response to the
complaint was incorrect as the default should have been recorded in October 2018 (as it was
originally dated) when the account was closed. They say Mr B is in a better position because
of the steps they took when he raised his complaint and feel that his complaint shouldnt be
upheld.
In light of the responses from both parties, the case passed to me to make a decision. And 
on 6 August 2021 I made a provisional decision. I said: 
Halifax have provided a copy of their correspondence to Mr B in July 2017. This 
includes a formal demand letter sent on 26 July. They confirmed they would close the 
account if the unplanned borrowing was not paid within 60 days. This 
correspondence was sent to his old address.
However, Ive reviewed a call note from 20 July 2017 where Halifax confirmed he 
would need to visit the branch in order to change the address permanently. The note 
indicates that Mr B understood this at the time. But I cant see he updated his 
address. So, Im not persuaded Halifax have done anything wrong here.
In any event, the account information provided by Halifax shows the balance was 
brought within the agreed overdraft limit by 8 September 2017. Ive seen 
correspondence after this which also shows the account wasnt closed at this time. 
Therefore, it doesnt seem that Halifax should have recorded a default at this time, 
and I accept what theyve now said about their final response being incorrect.
This means I need to consider the correspondence up to October 2018 which is the 
date the default was originally recorded, and which Halifax now say was actually 
correct. Halifax sent Mr B a reminder to pay the outstanding balance on 8 June, 19 
June and 27 June. This was to his amended address which had been updated by this 
time. I can see they explained how Mr Bs credit file might be affected if he remained 
above the planned overdraft limit.
Halifax wrote to Mr B on 27 July 2018 with a formal demand for the balance due. 
They explained that they had sent several reminders and asked for the outstanding 
payment by 10 August to avoid further action. They confirmed the account would be 
closed two months following receipt of the letter if the payment wasnt made. They 
also said if the account remained in arrears, they may register a default. Therefore, I 
can see Mr B was given reasonable opportunity to bring his account up to date and 
the consequences of not doing so were explained.
Halifax have also provided a copy of their recovery teams notes. I can see they 
closed the account in October 2018. This timeframe is also in line with the deadline 
set in their final demand. Therefore, Im satisfied the default was originally accurately 
recorded on Mr Bs credit file in October 2018.
Overall, Im content Halifax fairly recorded the default on the account in October 2018 
as they sent the reminders and formal demand. And this means that I dont think they 
need to do anything to put things right. I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with my 
decision because he believes the default should be removed. But Halifax do have an 
obligation to report to credit reference agencies and as far as I can see the default 
reasonably reflects what happened. So, I wont be asking Halifax to remove it.
Nevertheless, Mr B has benefited from the steps taken by Halifax in response to his
complaint. Theyve already amended the date of the default to September 2017. This 
means it will be on Mr Bs credit file for less time than it otherwise would have been. 
Theyve also paid Mr B £273.85.
Im satisfied Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in all of the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond before issuing my final decision on the matter. 
Neither Mr B nor Halifax responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision. And Im content Halifax acted fairly and reasonably here. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman