DRN-2593199
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain about HSBC UK Bank plcs advice (HSBC) to invest in a capital-
guaranteed bond in 2005.
What happened
The plan started on 15 December 2005 where £42,000 was invested. The Capital
Guaranteed Account was essentially two parts, the income part (Income Fifty) and capital
growth part (Capital Growth Fifty). Each part had £21,000 invested into it. The Income Fifty
was designed to provide regular income and the Capital Growth Fifty was aiming to achieve
capital growth.
The plan ended on 13 January 2012. Mr and Mrs M received £45,844.82 (This was
made up of £42,070 surrender value and £3,744.82 income withdrawals). Overall, this is a
gain of 9.1% over the six-year term.
Mr & Mrs Ms representative complained:
They were approached by the bank to discuss saving and investment options
They were advised to invest at the wrong time; too soon after going through a 
significant change in their personal circumstances. Mrs M had only recently changed 
jobs and they were still coming to terms with their new financial situation
They should have been allowed more time to become accustomed to these changes
They were advised to invest too much money with too much of their capital exposed 
to risk
An investigator at this service felt their complaint should be upheld.
He initially felt Mr and Mrs M were looking for capital growth rather than capital protection 
and thought the Guaranteed Capital Account wasnt right for them because there was a very 
real chance of minimal or nil return after six years.
Having reconsidered, he now accepted that capital protection was important to them as they 
had lost money in the past and didnt want this repeated. However, he still didnt think this 
product was right as the adviser had discounted suitable alternatives, notably HSBCs three-
year bonds offering 4.55% at the time of advice.
He felt a fixed-rate bond would have been more suitable as it would pay more than cash 
deposits and counter the effect of inflation. Crucially, it offered a guaranteed return unlike the 
recommended product. As Mr and Mrs M were only entitled to 50% of any growth in the 
FTSE100, there was a good chance the Capital Fifty element wouldnt achieve a return.
He felt HSBCs three-year bond, which paid interest at 4.55%, wouldve met Mr and Mrs Ms 
objectives of earning a return higher than inflation and higher than a deposit account.
So, he thought the appropriate benchmark would be to compare the Capital Fifty element 
against the HSBC fixed-rate bond for half the term (the longest product HSBC offered at the 
time) and the average rate from BoE fixed-rate bonds for the remaining three years. HSBC 
should then add interest at 8% simple to any resultant loss figure.
HSBC did not agree, and said:
Mr and Mrs M, according to an advisors report, agreed to forego guaranteed interest 
in the hope of gaining a higher return via a similar investment in 2012; this suggests 
they had agreed to the same proposition in 2005
The recommended product had no cap on potential returns
The Income Fifty portion of their investment gave them interest equal to BoE plus 
1%, 5.50% at the time
Mr and Mrs M agreed to take some risk with their money; fixed-rate bonds posed no 
risk
This was not new money, but had previously been invested, so Mr and Mrs Ms 
representative cannot reasonably argue they were advised to invest too much money
Part of the investment offered a greater return than fixed-rate bonds and allowed for 
some withdrawals, which a fixed-rate bond would not
The investigator did not alter his view, adding:
Yes, it was possible to earn a higher return via this product, but it didnt, and nor 
would it have earned a high rate for previous terms. This is because there were 
significant falls in the stock market between 2000 and the beginning of 2003
So, there was a very real possibility that this product wouldn't meet Mr and Mrs M's 
objectives - where a fixed rate bond would have
Overall, he didnt think they were put in an informed position as theres no evidence 
that fixed-rate bonds were discussed and discounted
HSBC did not agree, and said:
While a fixed-rate bond may have produced a better return with the benefit of 
hindsight, this does not render the original recommendation unsuitable
The Guaranteed Capital Account included a fixed-rate bond type arrangement 
through the Income Fifty part. So, in effect, Mr and Mrs M had 50% of the available 
investment funds in such an environment
The fact find confirmed Mr and Mrs were low risk investors willing to take some risk 
to achieve a higher return than via cash deposits
On the balance or probabilities, this would indicate that cash deposits were 
discussed, but also confirms they were willing to look at other option for greater 
potential growth
The product provided a competitive rate of return on the Income Fifty part so there 
was no risk of a nil returnWhat Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. In particular, I 
agree with his recent view that Mr and Mrs Ms objective was capital growth. As such, I will 
not repeat all his arguments.
Firstly, I should say that I agree with HSBC that an advisor is not required to outline all the 
possible suitable products available; so, the advisors apparent failure to explain that fixed-
rate bonds would deliver a guaranteed return higher than a standard savings account isnt 
sufficient to uphold this complaint.
However, I do think  from the evidence available  that he failed to clearly and fairly set out 
the risks and downsides of the proposed investment, meaning Mr and Mrs M were not in a 
fully informed position to decide whether to go ahead with his recommendation.
The brief fact find/recommendations document does not suggest that the advisor took steps 
to ascertain what Mr and Mrs M meant by the term lower risk, including how much of their 
capital and previously guaranteed return they were prepared to put at risk. In this sense I 
think one can set little store by his general statements about what they were or werent 
looking for risk-wise. 
For example, he did not spell out how much the real value of 50% of their invested money 
could fall by if they failed to receive any return via the FTSE-linked formula. With interest 
rates around 5% at the time of the advice, this could easily have meant they could see the 
real value of this money fall by as much as 30% by the end of the six-year term. Clearly, this 
poses a significant risk to Mr and Mrs Ms spending power, and I believe the advisor had a 
duty to point this out.
He also did not offer a comparison between the guaranteed interest they were current 
getting or could get and the returns as illustrated in the brochure. Given the impact of the 
fees and the fact that they would only be eligible for 50% in the rise of the FTSE, such a 
comparison would, in my view, have made them question the appeal of risking a guaranteed 
return for what appeared to be very modest returns  according to the illustrations.
Finally, I have seen no evidence that Mr and Mrs M were experienced investors and, in my 
view, were unlikely to have a detailed knowledge of the FTSEs recent track record. In fact, 
as the investigator said, it had suffered significant falls in the previous six years such that 
anyone investing in a product like this in 1999 would have received no return on their money.
This, also, in my view, is something the advisor should have pointed out so that Mr and Mrs 
M were in a fully informed position to decide whether to take the risk of getting no return on 
half their invested money.
Overall, if the advisor had offered such a full and fair picture, I dont believe Mr and Mrs M 
would have gone ahead. I also dont believe they wanted or needed an investment which 
offered regular income withdrawals. Given their surplus monthly income and other savings, I 
think it is more likely than not that they would have been happy with a product which did not 
offer this facility. So, HSBC must take account of their entire initial invested sum but, of 
course, factor in any withdrawals from the dates these occurred.
Finally, Mr and Mrs M could not have enjoyed the high interest they secured on half of their investment without committing to the FTSE-related element of the product, therefore 
calculation of loss will need to be based on their overall return on the £42,000 invested.
Given this, I agree with the investigator that redress should be based on HSBCs three-year 
fixed-rate bonds offering 4.55% per annum (with BoE after this date). This is because I am 
satisfied that their objective was to find a product with higher returns that a standard savings 
account and were happy to lock away this portion of their capital for at least three years (in 
practice, six years).
I therefore believe that if properly advised, this is what they would have done.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to 
put Mr and Mrs M as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had 
not been given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have
set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and objectives
What HSBC should do
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly it should:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs M's investment with that of the 
benchmark shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, 
no compensation is payable.
It should also pay interest as set out below.
It should take account of any withdrawals from the dates they occurred.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr and Mrs M in a clear, simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
three-year fixed 
rate bond at 
4.55%date of 
investmentthird 
anniversaryGuarante
ed 
Capital 
Accountmatured
BoE average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds of 
12 months 
maturitythird 
anniversarydate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlementActual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, it should 
use the monthly average rate for 12 months fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs M wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr and 
Mrs Ms circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr and Mrs M 
would have invested only in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return 
a consumer could have obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
Further information
The information about the average rate can be found on the Bank of Englands website 
by searching for quoted household interest rates and then clicking on the related link to 
their database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA) and then exporting the source data.
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can 
be found by following this link: 
https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/businesses/resolving- 
complaint/understanding-compensation/compensation-investment-complaints. 
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and instruct HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay compensation as outlined 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman