DRN-1879417
 
The complaint
Mr Rs complained he wasnt told by HSBC Bank plc (HSBC) that agreeing breathing 
space on his credit card would have an impact on his credit file. He says that he wouldnt 
have gone ahead if hed known.
What happened
Mr R has a current account and a credit card with HSBC. In mid-2019, he was having some 
issues with his finances. So he contacted HSBC to see if anything could be done.
HSBC took Mr R through an income and expenditure questionnaire. That showed that his 
expenses were higher than his income. So HSBC offered Mr R two months breathing 
space on his accounts. They told him that, during those two months, he wouldnt have to 
make any payments. They wouldnt charge interest on what he owed. And they wouldnt 
chase him for payments. They said Mr R would need to contact them before the two months 
was up so they could review the situation.
Mr R was worried that, if he accepted the solution on offer, it would impact on his credit 
report. He wanted to avoid that. HSBC told him that it might affect his credit score if he 
missed payments or went over his credit limit.
Mr R decided to take up HSBCs offer for his credit card, but not his current account. He did 
this on the basis it wouldnt affect his credit file.
After the two months was up, Mr R contacted HSBC again. During this call, he was told his 
account was in arrears, because hed not made the payments that had been due during the 
breathing space.
Mr R complained to HSBC. He said he hadnt been told that the missed payments would 
mount up and the account would fall into arrears. Hed understood his account had been put 
on hold for two months and hed been told he didnt have to make payments. And thered 
been an impact on his credit file, which hed wanted to avoid. He asked the person dealing 
with the complaint to listen to the phone call of his conversation about the breathing space.
HSBC considered Mr Rs complaint, but dismissed it. They said theyd listened to the call 
and Mr R had clearly been told what would impact on his credit file. So they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong.
Mr R wasnt satisfied, so he brought his complaint to us. He told us HSBC didnt make him 
aware that missed payments would show on his credit report. Our investigator considered 
the evidence  in particular the recording of the call between Mr R and HSBC. She said she 
heard HSBC tell him on multiple occasions that, if he missed payments, it may affect his 
credit file. So she didnt think HSBC should have done anything differently.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view. He said he wasnt told this applied to the 
breathing space. And, if hed known that, he wouldve looked at other options. I made a provisional decision on the complaint. I listened to the telephone conversation 
between the parties. And while I agreed Mr R had been told that missing payments may 
affect his credit file, I didnt think HSBC had made it clear to him that they would count not 
making payments during the period of breathing space as missing a payment. I thought they 
should have done. So I provisionally decided to direct HSBC to pay Mr R £150 
compensation  and to amend his credit file for the two months covered by the breathing 
space they applied.
What Ive decided  and why
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint and I sent HSBC and Mr R a copy of my provisional 
decision. Both have replied saying they accept it. So Im making my final decision for the 
reasons Ive summarised above.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Rs complaint about HSBC Bank plc and directing them to pay him £150 
compensation and to amend his credit file for the two months covered by the breathing 
space they applied.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman