DRN-3810980
The complaint
Mr S complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) are 
asking him to pay a fee for a payment protection insurance (PPI) claim that was successful 
with another claims management company (CMC).
What happened
In June 2019 Mr S instructed FTR and another CMC to pursue whether hed any PPI 
policies. And in February 2020 one of his lenders Ill call B told him hed a successful claim 
and paid him redress for this. Mr S said he also received an invoice from the other CMC 
asking him to pay their fee for his successful claim, which he did. But in February 2022 FTR 
said hed to send the final response letter from B to them or pay a fee of £500. Mr S said 
he sent the final response letter and FTR then invoiced him for their success fee. Mr S 
complained to FTR as hed already paid the fee to the other CMC.
FTR said Mr S had instructed them to act for hm in June 2019 when he signed a letter of 
authority (LoA). After submitting this to B, in July 2019 B told them Mr S did have PPI. 
They asked Mr S to complete a PPI questionnaire to strengthen his claim and they sent this 
with a letter of complaint in August 2019. The final response letter from B refers to them as 
fast trace reclaim. FTR said their fee was justified as the claim was successful after theyd 
submitted Mr S claim to B.
Mr S didnt agree and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the lender had accepted the other CMC as being Mr S representative. 
And Mr S had paid them their success fee. She said it wasnt fair or reasonable for FTR to 
now claim their fee and asked them to waive it.
FTR didnt agree, they said it hadnt been shown which CMC had submitted the claim first. 
They asked for a ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Mr S instructed two CMCs to check whether he could make a PPI 
claim. FTR feel strongly that theyd been authorised by Mr S as hed agreed to their terms 
and conditions. And that it was their submission of the LoA that meant Mr S PPI claim was 
successful. 
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This 
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on 
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information 
were given.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management
companies, such as FTR amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high 
volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject 
request, such as an LoA (Auto-convert).  But there was no requirement for them to auto-
convert information requests into complaints. So, for some lenders the submission of a LoA 
was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to 
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim . But for others a letter of complaint was required with 
supporting information such as a PPI questionnaire. Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 
deadline wouldnt be accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for 
doing so.
I can see from FTRs records that Mr S signed a LoA in June 2019,  and in July 2019 they 
told him that PPI had been found. FTRs terms and conditions say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR to continue 
to provide you with the claims service
When notifying Mr S that PPI had been found he was asked to complete two steps, sign another 
LoA and complete a PPI questionnaire.  From FTRs records a further notification was sent in 
early August 2019 again asking for the PPI questionnaire to be completed. The instructions FTR 
gave to Mr S said:
To progress your claim for mis-sold PPI before the deadline of August 2019, please  
complete the following 4 steps
One of the four steps was to sign and complete the PPI questionnaire. And went on to say:
On receipt of your signed questionnaire, we will send a bespoke letter of complaint to the 
lender.
I can see a LoA that is dated 30 July 2019, and a completed PPI questionnaire dated 12 August 
2019. FTR has also shown a letter of complaint they submitted to B dated 7 August 2019. 
FTRs notes show a PPI questionnaire was also completed online and this was sent along with 
the letter of complaint. The other completed PPI questionnaire was received 15 August 2019. I 
can also see a note dated February 2020 that updates Mr S about the backlog of cases and that 
FTR would be in touch as soon as they had an update. And this is the last note I can see until 
February 2022.
At the end of February 2020 B sent Mr S a final response letter that said hed been mis-sold 
PPI. The letter said this applied to card ending *9007, and linked to cards ending *3642, 7004 
and 0101. The letter says the decision was based on information from the other CMC, fast trace 
reclaim and internal systems. Mr S said shortly afterwards he received the invoice from the other 
CMC to pay their fee for his successful claim, which he did, and Ive no reason to doubt this.
The relevant guidance says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least once 
every six months, in a durable medium.
AndThe firm should give updates under CMCOB 6.1.9R until such time as the claim is finally 
determined or settled, or is withdrawn or discontinued.
But I cant see that FTR did this. It wasnt until February 2022 that they checked the status of    
Mr S claim, asking him to provide a final response from his lender. And its on receiving this 
response that FTR asked Mr S to pay their success fee.
I can see that B said they received the authority from the other CMC in June 2019 and FTRs in 
August 2019. While I accept FTRs comment that B had told them that there was PPI in July 
2019, so B would have received the LoA, as I outlined above the receipt of a LoA doesnt 
determine the auto-conversion of a complaint. And the formal letter of complaint wasnt sent by 
FTR until August 2019.
B has also said that in December 2019 they told both Mr S and  FTR that there was a duplicate 
CMC. FTR said they werent told about this. B said they didnt engage further with FTR and 
their final response letter was sent to the other CMC. I think this shows B didnt recognise FTR 
as being authorised as Mr S representative.  And I cant see that a LoA was provided by Mr S 
after he was made aware that there were duplicate CMCs authorising FTR to be his sole 
representative.
So, Im satisfied that FTR werent accepted as Mr S representative for his PPI claim, and Mr S 
successful claim is because of the submission by the other CMC. And Mr S has paid a success 
fee for his PPI claim to the other CMC. So I dont think its fair or reasonable for FTR to seek any 
fee from Mr S for the same successful claim some two years later.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Ltd trading as Fast Track Reclaim to waive 
their fee.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman