DRN-3225851
Complaint
Miss O has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly debited interest, fees and 
charges from her account, which created a snowball effect causing her to be stuck in a cycle 
she was unable to break.
  
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought HSBC should have realised 
that Miss O was in financial difficulty by May 2016 at the latest and so it needed to rework 
Miss Os account to remove the effect of the interest, fees and charges it debited from this 
point onwards. 
Despite being provided with additional time to respond, HSBC didnt provide a substantive 
response to our adjudicators view. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.   
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and industry codes of practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
debiting interest, fees and overdraft charges from a customers account. So I dont consider 
it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I also think HSBC acted unfairly when it 
continued debiting interest, fees and associated charges from Miss Os account from May 
2016 onwards. 
By this point, HSBC had already debited significant overlimit and returned item fees for a 
number of months in succession. HSBC will be aware that the relevant guidance and good 
industry practice in place at the time makes it clear that an increasing dependence on an 
unauthorised overdraft  such as Miss Os account was displaying  was considered a sign 
or an indication that a customer may be in financial difficulty. 
In these circumstances, I think that HSBC ought to have done more to establish Miss Os 
financial position before debiting further charges. If it had done this here then it would have 
seen Miss O was also making payments to more than one third-party debt collector at this 
stage too, which is even more of an indication she was struggling. So I think that by May 
2016, HSBC should have realised that Miss O was struggling financially and treated her with 
forbearance rather than debiting even more fees and charges from her account. 
As HSBC didnt react to Miss Os account usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. And as this led to Miss O paying 
additional interest, fees and charges at a time when she was already experiencing difficulty, 
Im satisfied that she lost out as a result of HSBC failing to act fairly and reasonably towards 
her. So HSBC needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation  what HSBC needs to do to put things right for Miss O
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Os complaint for HSBC to put things right by:
Reworking Miss Os account so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from May 2016 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on Miss Os account once these adjustments 
have been made HSBC should contact Miss O to arrange a suitable repayment 
plan for this. If HSBC considers it appropriate to record negative information on 
Miss Os credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started 
the process of taking corrective action on the account from May 2016.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss O along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information from Miss Os credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must give    
Miss O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, upholding Miss Os complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman