DRN-3469326
The complaint
Mr K complains that Lloyds Bank PLC blocked his debit card when he attempted to withdraw 
cash from his bank account.
What happened
In June 2021, Mr K tried to withdraw £3,000 from a cash desk at a casino using his Lloyds 
debit card but he wasnt able to access the money. Mr K says he had to borrow money from 
a friend so he could get a taxi to retrieve another card and some cash before returning to the 
casino.
About a week later, Mr K contacted Lloyds who told him that the card had been blocked 
because of a security check and arranged for the block to be removed. 
Mr K complained to Lloyds. He was particularly unhappy that Lloyds hadnt contacted him 
about the block and had told him it was unable to guarantee that the same thing wouldnt 
happen again. He said he would like to be compensated for the inconvenience and any 
future inconvenience he might experience.
Lloyds said that that the account was blocked due to a fraud assessment check. It said its 
process isnt to alert the customer with an SMS when an account is blocked for higher than 
normal fraud risk. It said the process was in place so as not to alert potential fraudsters.
Lloyds offered Mr K £52 compensation for customer service issues when hed phoned, 
which included an amount to cover his telephone costs. Mr K didnt accept Lloyds offer and 
asked our service to consider his complaint.
Our investigator concluded that Lloyds hadnt made any errors when it refused the cash 
withdrawal and blocked Mr Ks card. She acknowledged the frustration Mr K had 
experienced from having to wait to speak to Lloyds on the phone. But she thought the 
amount Lloyds had offered to compensate Mr K for inconvenience and call costs was fair. 
  
Mr K disagreed with our investigators view. He was unhappy that hed been denied access 
to funds from an instant access account and felt that Lloyds should have contacted him 
about the block. He also questioned why Lloyds had considered his attempt to withdraw the 
cash as unusual when hed made many similar cash withdrawals in casinos in the past. So, 
Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Id like to reassure Mr K that Ive considered all of his points, even if Ive not referred to each 
of them individually. Ive focussed on what I believe is most relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint.
The relevant regulations require Lloyds to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly. Lloyds also has a duty to protect the money in Mr Ks account from 
potential fraud.
The terms and conditions of the account set out circumstances where Lloyds can refuse to 
make a payment or allow a cash withdrawal. One of the circumstances stated is: we 
reasonably believe that you or someone else has used, is using or obtaining, or may use or 
obtain a service or money illegally or fraudulently. 
Lloyds says that Mr Ks card was blocked because his attempt to withdraw £3,000 was 
flagged as suspicious. The fraud team suspected fraud or a possible scam. It says the block 
was applied correctly and it had followed its normal security procedure which was to wait for 
Mr K to contact it to confirm the payment was genuine before removing the block. 
Mr K has queried why a screenshot from Lloyds shows no reason found for this particular 
transaction being declined. But the screenshot also says to contact a certain department for 
more assistance. So, I dont think the screenshot shows that the transaction was declined for 
no reason. Lloyds was able to explain to Mr K why the transaction was declined when he 
phoned.
I appreciate Mr K thinks that the transaction shouldnt have been flagged on Lloyds system 
as potentially fraudulent because it wasnt unusual for him. Hes provided copies of his bank 
statements to show this. But Lloyds has a duty to protect customers and itself from potential 
fraud and its not this services role to comment on the processes and systems it puts in 
place to do this. Im satisfied from the information Lloyds has provided that the transaction in 
question was flagged on its systems as potentially fraudulent.
I understand that Mr K would like more detail about why the transaction was flagged. But 
Lloyds criteria for flagging a transaction as potentially fraudulent isnt something I can tell it 
to share because this information is commercially sensitive. To be clear, the transaction was 
flagged because of suspicions of fraud. This isnt the same as Lloyds determining that fraud 
had taken place. Lloyds removed the block once Mr K had contacted it to confirm the 
transaction was genuine. There was no need for it to issue a replacement card, as it was 
satisfied that no fraud had occurred.
Mr K strongly believes that Lloyds should have contacted him to let him know that his card 
had been blocked.
 
The terms and conditions say: Unless the law prevents us, we will try to contact you to tell 
you we are refusing, or unable, to act. But they go on to say: If you are using a card to 
make a payment or withdraw cash, the retailer  or organisation that owns the cash machine 
 will tell you the payment has been refused.
Mr K would have been aware that his instruction to withdraw cash had been refused when 
he couldnt access the money. So, Lloyds didnt need to tell him this. 
Lloyds has explained why it didnt go on to notify Mr K that a block had been placed on his 
card.  It says its a security measure to avoid alerting potential fraudsters. Mr K has 
questioned how he could have been expected to know about the block. But Lloyds told Mr K 
about the block when he phoned to discuss why he was unable to withdraw the cash and the 
block was removed during the call. In that telephone conversation, Lloyds told Mr K it would have been able to resolve the issue sooner if hed called on the night his cash withdrawal 
was refused. 
I appreciate Lloyds security measures caused Mr K some inconvenience and I understand 
his concerns that this might happen again. But Im satisfied that Lloyds has acted fairly and 
in the best interests of Mr K. If Mr K had been a victim of fraud and Lloyds hadnt taken steps 
to prevent money being removed from his account, the consequences could have been far 
worse for him.
Lloyds has acknowledged that Mr K experienced some additional inconvenience because of 
the length of time hed spent waiting on the phone when he called Lloyds. But I think the £52 
Lloyds has offered Mr K is fair compensation for the inconvenience and call costs he might 
have incurred.
Finally, Mr K has raised a concern about the complaint manager who issued the final 
response to his complaint. Mr K says he had promised to confirm that it was the banks 
policy not to inform customers of accounts being blocked in the final response letter but 
didnt do so. However, complaint handling isnt something this service is able to consider, 
according to the rules sent by the Financial Conduct Authority. So, Mr Ks comments about 
this hasnt made a difference to the outcome Ive reached. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should pay Mr K the £52 it previously offered him if he accepts my decision.
My final decision
Lloyds Bank PLC has already made an offer to pay £52 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr K £52.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman