DRN-3357625
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly 
turned down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr and Mrs M bought a timeshare membership from a business, Business G in March 
2002. The cost of the timeshare was £7,495 and that was paid by a loan taken with First 
National Bank (which later became GE Money Consumer Lending Limited). The loan was 
in joint names and set to run for 10 years. Both the deposit and the proceeds of the loan 
werent paid to Business G, but to a different business, Business F.
Mr and Mrs M said that when they took out the timeshare, they were told that they 
would be able to access their first-choice resorts, receive discounted flights and be able 
to sell on their points. 
So Mr and Mrs M said that Business G misrepresented to them at the time of sale the 
availability of resorts, the fact discounted flights would not be on offer and they could only 
transfer their points to family members. Mr and Mrs M said that had they known what 
Business G said wasnt right, they would not have taken out the membership in the first 
place.
In December 2018, Mr and Mrs M, using a representative, complained to GE Money. It 
responded to say the complaint had been brought too late. As the sale took place many 
years before the complaint, GE Money said that meant the complaint had been brought too 
late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It also noted 
that the loan proceeds had been paid to Business F and not Business G, so it didnt think 
there were the right types of agreements in place for the CCA to apply to this complaint. 
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to 
do anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 CCA had been brought too 
late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim. They 
also looked at s.140A CCA, but they didnt think that provision applied as the loan 
predated the enactment of that provision.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative responded to ask an ombudsman to review the matter 
again. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the 
matter and Ive explained why below.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about 
the merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
I also have to take account of law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes of practice and good industry practice, when I make my decision. 
And I want to assure Mr and Mrs M, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its 
not because I havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and 
sent to us. But, Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and 
material to reaching a fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr and Mrs M to make a claim under 
the CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. GE Money has said that here there was no such agreement in this case, as 
the supplier of the timeshare was Business G, but the loan proceeds went to a different 
business, Business F, so no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr and Mrs Ms 
claim under s.75 CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of the 
service (Business G) and the business that took the payment (Business F). But Ive not 
gone on to make a finding on that point as, even if I did think there were the right 
relationships in place for the claim, I think GE Money would have a total defence under the 
LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr and Mrs M said that Business G misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of 
the timeshare agreement with them, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 
CCA. But if GE Money could show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA, it would be entitled to rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I 
should make it clear however that Im not deciding if any right that Mr and Mrs M may 
have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - thats a matter for the courts. In 
this decision Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly and reasonably in turning 
down Mr and Mrs Ms claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would be brought under s.2(1) of the 
Misrepresentation Act 1967. It was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] EWCA 
1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action 
brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a 
claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of 
action accrued.
Here Mr and Mrs M brought a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim 
was brought under the CCA, so would be covered by s.9 LA. Again, it means Mr and Mrs M 
had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to being a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr and Mrs Ms case, thats when they could have 
brought a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE 
Money. I think that was the date they entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare, so in March 2002. It was at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the 
misrepresentations of Business G. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, 
they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, 
as they took out the loan agreement with GE Money or other entity.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in March 2002, so Mr and Mrs 
M had six years from then to bring a claim. But they didnt try to contact GE Money about 
their claim until 2018, which was outside of the time limits set out in the LA. So I think GE 
Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a 
credit agreement if it decides that the relationship between the lender and the creditor 
arising out of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a 
determination but I think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
Our adjudicator considered whether Mr and Mrs M could have made a claim under 
s.140A CCA and concluded that they couldnt as that provision didnt apply to their 
credit agreement. 
S.140A CCA was introduced by the Consumer Credit Act 2006. Schedule 3 of that Act 
sets out to what credit agreements s.140A CCA applies. In short, if a credit agreement 
had completed before 6 April 2008, no claim under s.140A CCA could be brought in 
respect of that credit agreement.
Based on the available evidence it seems Mr and Mrs Ms agreement was paid off in 
February 2004, so I dont think they are able to make a claim under s.140A. 
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim 
was brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that 
Mr and Mrs M may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, 
as far as I can see from the information available, any claim that Mr and Mrs M might have 
against the supplier and GE Money has most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the 
LA. I think it is reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not 
persuaded that GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against GE Money 
Consumer Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Chandni Green
Ombudsman