DRN-4212543
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Advantage Insurance Company Ltd (Advantage) handled a 
claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Advantage.
Late on 12 April 2020, Mr S was involved in an incident with a third party. He stopped, then 
left the scene of the incident, went home and consumed some alcohol.
He was arrested a few hours later, in the early hours of 13 April. The police arrested him for 
failing to stop and suspicion of being unfit to drive. It suspected he would have been over the 
alcohol limit at the time. Mr S then refused to provide a breathalyser sample.
Advantage was notified about the incident about two months later by a third-party insurer 
which was seeking to recover its costs. Mr S said he did try to tell Advantage about the 
incident, but there was a ten-hour wait to do so. He hasnt claimed for the damage to his own 
car.
Later, Advantage cancelled Mr Ss policy after he was convicted of failing to provide a 
breathalyser sample and his driving licence was suspended.
Advantage paid the cost of the third-party claim, and said Mr S needed to repay it.
Mr S complained about Advantages lack of communication and handling of the claim. He 
asks that Advantage change its decision and doesnt recover the third partys claim payment 
from him.
In its final response, Advantage said it didnt do anything wrong.
Mr S remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and upheld it. She said she couldnt be certain that Mr S was over the alcohol limit at 
the time of the incident. She thought Advantage should pay Mr S £150 for his distress, and 
not recover the cost of the claim from him.
Advantage didnt agree with the view. Because it didnt agree, this complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision which didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. This is included below:
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurer has acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy, and fairly and reasonably.
Advantage said it had declined Mr Ss claim because hed failed to provide a specimen of his 
breath.
The appropriate part of the policy wording dealing with Mr Ss failure to supply a breathalyser 
sample is this:
Youre not covered if an accident happens while you or anyone entitled to drive under 
your current Certificate of Motor Insurance:
Is found to be over the prescribed limit for alcohol or drugs in the country where 
the incident happens
Is driving while unfit through alcohol, drugs or other substances, whether 
prescribed or not
Doesnt provide a sample of breath, blood or urine when required to do so, 
without lawful reason.
Thats not an unusual exclusion in my view and Im satisfied that it is clear enough.
The first part of the exclusion relates to a conviction for being over the alcohol limit, and Mr S 
says he wasnt prosecuted for this. The second part similarly deals with being unfit to drive.
Mr S was arrested on suspicion of this, but again this wasnt taken to prosecution.
But its my understanding of Mr Ss case that he refused to provide a sample of his breath  
which would have been required to prove an offence of driving while unfit. This refusal to 
provide the sample is the reason why Advantage has rejected his claim, as it means his 
policy didnt cover the incident in question.
Mr S points out that his refusal to provide the sample was not related to driving during the 
time [the incident] happened. I take his point that he says he returned home and consumed 
alcohol before the police attended and asked for a sample, but I think the exclusion is clear 
and Advantage has applied it fairly. So Im not intending to ask it to change its decision in 
any way.
Mr S also said he wasnt aware Advantage was asking for him to pay the third-party claim. I 
can see that Advantage were handling this and, in common with many of these claims, much 
of this took place over an extended period of time.
I appreciate Mr S has said he wasnt kept up to date, but I dont think Advantage had much 
reason to contact him as it was waiting for the police to investigate and the court to rule 
before it could progress the claim.
Taking everything into account, I dont think Advantage has acted unreasonably and Im not 
intending to ask it to do more.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr S responded and didnt agree. He makes several points about the timing of the collision, 
and the breathalyser sample. He says the police withdrew some of the charges against him 
relating to the collision. 
Mr S also talked about the timing of Advantages cancellation of his policy which took place 
some time after the collision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Ss reply to my provisional decision carefully. I need to point out to him 
that its my role to assess whether Advantage has acted fairly and reasonably in handling his 
claim. 
And in his case, I think it has. Ive explained in my provisional decision that I think its fair that 
Advantage didnt cover his claim because hed failed to give a sample of his breath to the 
police. Its expressly allowed to do this under the policy wording.
Advantage is required to handle the third-party claim under the relevant part of the Road 
Traffic Act, and then it can seek to recover its costs from Mr S. 
Mr S has said he finds it unfair that Advantage was able to make the decision about fault for 
the collision and didnt tell him about it. In his policy wording I can see this section:
If they feel its appropriate, your Insurer will be entitled to admit liability, for the costs 
covered under this Policy on behalf of you or any person claiming indemnity under 
the Policy.
This type of condition is common in motor insurance policies and I think its fair for 
Advantage to apply it here. 
Mr S also asked about a legal defence cover he says he paid for under his policy. This 
didnt form part of his approach to this service, so Im not able to consider this further.
Mr S has also made various point about how Advantage cancelled his policy and didnt keep 
him up to date with his claim. Ive dealt with Advantages communications in my provisional 
decision and I dont propose to talk about that further. 
I can see from the policy wording that Advantage is allowed to cancel a policy with at least 
seven days notice, with a pro-rata refund, at any time during the policy. So I dont think 
Advantage has acted unfairly in cancelling Mr Ss policy in this way.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman