DRN-3073776
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services, was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In late December 2019, Mr H was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase 
agreement with BMW. He paid a £500.00 deposit and the agreement was for £8,479.00 over 
36 months; with 35 monthly repayments of £163.01 and a final optional payment of 
£4,661.00. At the time, the car was four and a half years old and had done 59,500 miles.
On 27 March 2020, Mr H contacted the supplying dealership about a problem he was having 
with the clutch. But, due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic, the dealership wasnt able 
to look at this immediately. And it wasnt until May 2020 when the dealership inspected the 
car, and replaced the clutch at no cost to Mr H.
Mr H had a further issue with the car in August 2020. He called a breakdown company who 
said the bolts had come off the driveshaft, causing damage to the gearbox. Mr H says they 
also told him this most likely happened because the bolts werent tightened correctly when 
the clutch was replaced, or that the wrong type of bolts had been used. The car was 
recovered to the dealership, and the dealership repaired it, also at no cost to Mr H. But he 
was still unhappy with the car and didnt collect it. BMW eventually repossessed the car from 
the dealership in August 2021.
Mr H complained to BMW on 21 August 2020, asking to reject the car. BMW replied, telling 
Mr H they didnt agree with a rejection because there was no evidence to show the faults 
were present when the car was supplied to him. Mr H was unhappy with BMWs response, 
and he brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said, given the age and mileage of the car when it was supplied to Mr H, 
any reasonable person would expect some wear and tear to be present. And that these was 
a greater risk that the car would need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a younger car 
with lower mileage.
She said that, although there was a problem with the clutch around three months after the 
car was supplied, a clutch is a part that can fail quite quickly. And shed seen no evidence 
there was a fault with the clutch at the point of supply. So, although the dealership replaced 
the clutch at no cost to Mr H, this didnt mean the car was of an unsatisfactory quality. 
The investigator also said shed seen no evidence that the fault with the driveshaft was 
present when the car was supplied. Or that this fault only occurred because the clutch wasnt 
replaced correctly. She said the dealership have also repaired this fault, at no cost to Mr H. 
Which she thought was reasonable. So she didnt agree that Mr H should be able to reject 
the car. And she didnt think BMW needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said he felt unsafe driving and putting his family in 
the car, as the driveshaft fault couldve caused a serious incident. He accepted that wear in 
a clutch could become noticeable very quickly, but he said hed only driven around 1,000 
miles before the clutch failed. So he believes the clutch wear was present when the car was 
supplied to him. And, because the driveshaft needed to be removed to replace the clutch, he 
also believes the driveshaft failed because of the poor quality of the work the dealership did 
when they replaced the clutch. 
He also didnt think it was reasonable that BMW defaulted the agreement because the car 
was no longer in his possession, or that they repossessed the car. Because Mr H didnt 
agree, this matter has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr H was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMW 
are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless BMW can show otherwise. But, if a fault happens after six 
months, its for Mr H to show this was present when the car was supplied. So, if I thought the 
car was faulty when Mr H took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory 
quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask BMW to put this right.
Although no job cards have been provided, its not disputed that the clutch on the car failed 
due to wear. Or that the dealership replaced the clutch at no cost to Mr H. Ive considered Mr 
Hs comments that the clutch mustve been worn when the car was supplied. But I dont think 
this has any overall relevance. 
Given the age and mileage of the car at the time of supply, Id expect the clutch to have a 
reasonable amount of wear, and that it could fail at any time. But the CRA allows one 
chance of repair. And this happened when the dealership replaced the clutch. Mr H hasnt 
complained of any ongoing issues with the clutch. And I havent seen any evidence that 
shows me the clutch repair failed, and there are still clutch problems. Because of this, its 
reasonable for me to conclude that the clutch repair was successful. As such, Mr H has no 
right to reject the car under the CRA because of the worn clutch.The issue with the driveshaft bolts happened around eight months after Mr H was supplied 
with the car. Mr H has said that, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, hed driven the car for 
less than six months, and around 1,000 miles. But the CRA considers the time Mr H was in 
possession of the car, not the actual time itd been driven, or the mileage covered, when 
considering obligations. And, under the CRA, as hed been in possession of the car for more 
than six months, its for Mr H to show that this was a fault present when the car was 
supplied.
Ive seen a copy of the breakdown report from 17 August 2020. This says drive shaft bolts 
came loose causing damage to gear box. But this report doesnt say the fault was caused 
by an incorrect repair to the clutch. Nor does it say that this fault was present of developing 
in December 2019, when Mr H was supplied with the car.
However, the dealership has said that, when they came to repair the car, the issue was with 
a constant velocity joint (which was replaced), and not with the driveshaft bolts. The 
dealership havent provided any evidence to show what work was actually done, but I dont 
consider the exact nature of the repair to be relevant as Ive not seen any evidence that this 
fault reoccurred, so its reasonable to conclude it was a successful repair.
Mr H has said hes spoken to a number of mechanics, whove told him that the problems 
with the car wouldve been present when it was supplied to him. But Ive seen no evidence 
e.g. a report from a mechanic, that says the second issue was either present when the car 
was supplied to Mr H, and/or was caused as a direct result of a failed repair on the clutch.
Given this, Im satisfied that it was more likely than not that the second issue was as a result 
of age-related wear and tear. And this doesnt make the car of an unsatisfactory quality at 
the point of supply. So Mr H doesnt have the right to reject the car, and I wont be asking 
BMW to allow this.
Mr H has also said that he felt the car was unsafe to drive, which is why he never collected it 
from the dealership. But Ive seen nothing to show me that the car was dangerous or unsafe 
to drive. Mr H was concerned about what couldve happened if the second issue happened 
at a different time, and when he was driving at a higher speed. While I appreciate his 
concerns, my role is to consider what actually happened, not what might have happened 
under different circumstances. So I wont be asking BMW to compensate Mr H for what 
mightve happened; which includes covering any storage charges Mr H mayve incurred by 
his choice not to collect the car once itd been repaired. 
Turning to Mr Hs comments about the default and the repossession of the car. Ive seen that 
terms and conditions Mr H agreed to when he was supplied with the car say:
4. Care of the Vehicle  you must:
(a) Keep the vehicle in good repair and condition and have it serviced maintained 
and repaired in accordance with the manufacturers recommendations
(c) If applicable, keep in force a current MOT certificate.
(g) Keep the vehicle in your possession and under your control 
7. Events of Default. The events of default referred to in Clause 6 are:
(b) you breach Clause 4 or 5, which are also (along with your payment obligations 
under Clause 2) of fundamental importance Mr H has confirmed that, while the car remained at the dealership, he maintained the 
insurance and the road tax. But he allowed the MOT to expire and didnt renew it. He also 
says that he maintained the payments to BMW. Based on this, Im satisfied that Mr H 
breached clauses 4(a) by not servicing the car in accordance with the manufacturers 
recommendations i.e. annually, 4(b) by not maintaining a valid MOT certificate, and 4(c) by 
leaving the car at the dealership for around a year  this cannot be said to be keeping the 
car under his control. So Im also satisfied that, under clause 7(b), BMW were entitled to take 
action to default the agreement and repossess the car.
While we asked BMW to suspend the repossession while we considered the complaint about 
satisfactory quality, they werent obliged to do so. So I cant say they did anything wrong by 
choosing to continue to repossess the car, especially given that Mr H had left it unattended  
essentially abandoned  at the dealership for a year.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited trading as Alphera Financial Services.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman