DRN-3980972
The complaint
Mr H complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited hasnt paid for treatment under his private 
health insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H has a private health insurance policy with AXA. He unfortunately developed prostate 
cancer some years ago, and hes gone through several treatments for it over the years. Hes 
had surgery, hormone treatment and radiotherapy, but none were wholly successful. He then 
had chemotherapy but had to stop due to complications.
After this, Mr Hs consultant recommended nuclear medicine treatment. Mr H made a claim 
for this treatment to AXA, but it declined the claim saying it was for unproven treatment 
which wasnt covered by his policy. AXA also said that as there was no suitable equivalent 
conventional treatment, it wouldnt consider paying anything towards the unproven 
treatment.
Mr H wasnt happy with AXAs decision. He noted that other private health insurers had paid 
for their policyholders nuclear medicine treatment, but AXA was the only one that hadnt.
After Mr H had completed four of the six planned cycles of nuclear medicine treatment, a 
different specific medicine used for this type of treatment was approved. But by then Mr H 
had stopped the treatment as it wasnt sufficiently effective for him, and hes since continued 
with chemotherapy, followed by hormone treatment. AXA has paid for these treatments.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think AXA had treated Mr H 
fairly or reasonably. While he accepted that the nuclear medicine treatment was unproven 
treatment as per the policy terms, he thought it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to pay 
for what it wouldve paid for suitable equivalent treatment instead, such as chemotherapy.
AXA didnt accept the investigators findings and made the following points:
While a specific medicine used for this treatment has since been approved, it wasnt 
approved at the time of Mr Hs treatment.
In any event, the medicine used in Mr Hs treatment was different, and still hasnt 
been approved.
It didnt consider other treatments, such as chemotherapy, as suitable equivalent 
treatments to the nuclear medicine treatment in these specific circumstances. This 
was because these other treatments hadnt been effective for Mr H. So, AXA didnt 
think it should pay Mr Hs claim for what it wouldve paid for these treatments instead.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision on the complaint in February 2023. Heres what I said:
Firstly, I was very sorry to learn about Mr Hs health. Hed naturally want to go ahead with 
any treatment that was recommended to him and had potential for success. But my role is to 
make an impartial decision if, after considering everything, I think AXA has declined the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy and treated him fairly and 
reasonably. Having done so, I think it has. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, 
so Ill explain my reasons below.
Was the treatment conventional or unproven?
I understand Mr H says other insurers have paid for their policyholders nuclear medicine 
treatment. But AXA isnt obliged to cover a particular treatment purely on the grounds that 
other insurers may have chosen to do so. When considering this complaint, I can only take 
into account the terms and conditions of the policy which Mr H holds with AXA, and Mr Hs 
own individual circumstances.  
Mr Hs policy covers conventional treatment. The relevant section of the policy says the 
following:
We define conventional treatment as treatment that:
is established as best medical practice, and is practised widely within the UK; and
is clinically appropriate in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration and 
the facility or location where the treatment is provided; and has either
obeen shown to be safe and effective for the treatment of your medical 
condition through substantive peer review clinical evidence in published 
authoritative medical journals; or
obeen approved by NICE (The National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence) as a treatment which may be used in routine practice.
AXA says that the treatment Mr H received wasnt approved by NICE. It also said that in the 
view of its Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and clinical team, there was insufficient evidence to 
support a conclusion that the treatment was safe and effective for Mr Hs medical condition 
at the time.
Mr H, on the other hand, says that there were several medical centres in the UK providing 
this treatment, and theres evidence of success of this treatment abroad.
Ive carefully thought what both parties have said. Firstly, Im satisfied that the nuclear 
medicine treatment wasnt approved by NICE at the time. And in the absence of further 
evidence to show the treatment had been shown to be safe and effective as per the terms 
above, Im more persuaded by AXAs CMOs assessment of the situation. 
Overall, Im satisfied AXA has acted fairly and reasonably when it said Mr Hs treatment 
wasnt conventional, which meant it was unproven treatment as per the policy terms.
Additionally, the policy also says that if the treatment is a drug, the drug must be:
licenced for use by the European Medicines Agency or the Medicines and Healthcare 
products Regulatory Agency; and
used according to that licence.
AXA has accepted that a specific type of medicine used in this treatment has now been 
approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency. But at the time of 
treatment it wasnt, and in any event, a different medicine was used in Mr Hs treatment. So, 
AXA maintains that the treatment falls outside of cover for conventional treatment.I havent seen any evidence that persuasively contradicts AXAs arguments. Having 
considered this carefully, I dont think AXA has acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Was there suitable equivalent conventional treatment?
The terms and conditions say that for AXA to consider covering unproven treatment, it must:
be authorised by us before it takes place; and
take place in the UK; and
be agreed by us as a suitable equivalent to conventional treatment.
If there is no suitable equivalent conventional treatment, there wont be any cover for the 
unproven treatment.
AXA has said that there was no suitable equivalent treatment that wouldve been available 
for Mr H at that stage of his treatment journey. AXA says that in deciding on equivalent 
treatments it takes into account factors such as the stage and extent of the disease, and it 
considers established treatments that are available for that stage of disease, of similar 
complexity, and that would be likely to deliver a similar outcome in terms of cure rates and 
complications.
AXA noted the treatment options outlined by Mr Hs consultant as chemotherapy, anti-
androgen therapy or localised radiotherapy, but it said these appeared to be statements 
about the treatment options available, rather than for Mr H specifically. AXA also noted that 
Mr H had not tolerated chemotherapy, and hed already had two lines of anti-androgen 
therapy and radiotherapy. AXA said it wasnt clear that any of these options would be 
suitable for Mr H.
Ive considered what AXA has said about there being no suitable equivalent treatment to the 
one Mr H had. And I think whats key here, in addition to AXAs considerations, is what 
Mr Hs consultant has said. He said that the nuclear medicine treatment was felt to be the 
most suitable and appropriate therapeutic option. And of the other treatment options, the 
consultant said that these would likely not be the most appropriate current therapeutic 
options. Mr Hs consultant had also previously told AXA that Mr H had completed the 
standard lines of treatment.
Im persuaded that AXA has considered Mr Hs situation carefully, and it has acted fairly and 
reasonably when it didnt consider there to be suitable equivalent treatment available at the 
time Mr H was recommended the nuclear medicine treatment. I think this conclusion is 
supported by what Mr Hs consultant has said as above.
That means that unlike our investigator, I dont think AXA needs to pay for any suitable 
equivalent treatment as there was nothing else recommended for Mr H as being suitable or 
appropriate at the time.
For completeness, I know Mr H has since stopped the nuclear medicine treatment as it 
wasnt effective enough, and hes undergone some further chemotherapy and hormone 
therapy. And hes confirmed that AXA has paid for his treatment before and after the nuclear 
medicine treatment. Overall, I think AXA has treated Mr H fairly and reasonably, and I dont 
think theres anything else it needs to do in the circumstances.
AXA said it didnt have anything further to add. Mr H was stunned by my provisional 
decision, as hed agreed with the investigators findings.
As both parties have now had the chance to respond to my provisional decision, and the 
deadline to do so has passed, Im issuing my final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me any further information to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings I reached in my provisional decision. So, Ive reached the same decision, 
and for the same reasons. Overall, I think AXA has declined Mr Hs claim in line with the 
terms and conditions of his policy, and it has treated him fairly and reasonably. I dont think 
theres anything else AXA needs to do in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman