DRN-3128368
The complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
when he made a claim on his motor policy following an accident.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr Cs car was hit by another driver whilst it was parked. Unfortunately, 
there was insufficient evidence to show any liability on this other driver, when he asked 
Admiral to repair his car. 
The initial repair by Admirals approved repairs was completed in February 2021 and Mr C 
said his car was returned to him in a dangerous state. The further repairer agreed, and 
further repairs were undertaken and paid by Admiral. Mr C finally got his car back in March.
Mr C made a total of around 37 complaints to Admiral included the claims process 
concerning the repair of his car, the hire car provided and that his premium on renewal was 
substantially higher. 
Admiral upheld a considerable number of his complaints and paid £1,624.85 for refunds on 
costs, extra repair costs and compensation. Mr C remained dissatisfied and confirmed he 
was claiming around £12,000 and brought his complaint to us.  The investigator was of the 
view that Admiral had done enough to put things right. Mr C didnt agree so his complaint 
has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done Im not upholding this complaint as I think Admiral has done enough to put 
things right. Ill explain why. Its a matter for Mr C to decide whether he wishes to accept it 
not. None of his legal options are fettered if Mr C doesnt accept my decision either. 
First there is no doubt that the repair of Mr Cs car fell short of what should have happened. 
Its clear it wasnt repaired properly initially, and further repair work had to be undertaken. 
However, my role to simply to assess if Admiral then did enough to put things right, my role 
isnt to punish or fine it because things went wrong in the first place, Ive simply no remit to 
do that. Mr Cs car is now repaired fully and Im mindful of the fact that it only got repaired 
fully because Mr C strenuously complained at the time and that that complaint was driving 
force to get his car properly repaired.
 
So, the first thing Admiral should have done to put things was ensure Mr Cs car was 
properly repaired. It did that. I deal with the consequences of this to Mr C later below. 
Secondly and probably most importantly given Mr Cs strength of feeling on the issue, the 
amount of the repairs doesnt usually dictate the amount of premium increase, what does 
dictate it is the fact that the incident happened and whether it was Mr Cs fault which here it 
couldnt be because his car was parked at the time.  And whether the insurer, namely 
Admiral, could recoup the cost of the claim from another party, which sadly here it couldnt 
because the CCTV didnt cover the area where the accident happened. 
Each insurer will rate these issues of the incident happening, whether it was fault or non-fault 
and whether the insurer could recoup the losses differently according to their own 
underwriting guides. Admiral has explained that it rates the fact that the incident happened 
regardless of fault which in turn increases Mr Cs premium. Its a matter for each insurer to 
rate these issues as it wishes, this service has no authority to tell any insurer how to rate any 
risk or what premium it should charge, as were not the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority is. So, its a matter of their commercial discretion and not one this service will 
interfere with provided that every policyholder would be treated the same in similar 
circumstances. This is the case here because Admiral has adhered to its own underwriting 
guide. Its shown us that. 
So, whilst I understand and appreciate Mr C feels most aggrieved, he is being penalised that 
the incident which of course isnt his fault at all, that position is not unfair or unreasonable 
and is applied in varying levels industry wide, so not just by Admiral.
 
Mr C contends Admiral should have done more to obtain potential CCTV footage and if 
necessary, involved the police to get the company to hand it over. First, there is no 
mechanism by which the police would involve itself in this sort of matter and secondly 
Admiral has shown us it did chase the disclosure of the CCTV footage repeatedly to no avail. 
So, without this CCTV footage, the matter couldnt be taken forward. Therefore, from the 
evidence Admiral has shown me, I consider it did everything reasonable to try get this CCTV 
footage irrespective that the company supplying it said the camera didnt cover the location 
of Mr Cs car. So, in effect, I dont consider on the basis of this lack of evidence that Admiral 
should have done anything more in pursuing the person who caused the damage to Mr Cs 
parked car. 
Thirdly, theres no dispute Mr C was deeply upset his car was initially returned to him in such 
a poor state of repair. And theres no dispute Admiral admitted that too and indeed 
apologised as well. Initially it paid him the following for issues concerning this by its first final 
response letter (FRL) 4 March 2021, namely: 
£40.00 for the fuel used by the garage
£40.00 loss of use of your vehicle
£593.99 for the brakes and fitting costs
£250.00 for the trouble and upset caused.
In the second FRL dated 24 March 2021, Admiral further apologised and paid him the 
following in addition:
£20.00 contribution towards phone call costs
£500.00 compensation due to the overall trouble and upset caused due to the service 
received (this includes the £250 compensation listed above).
£100.00 costs for a valet to be completed to the vehicle.
£150.00 loss of earnings without any supporting evidence.
£180.86 reimbursement of car insurance and vehicle tax for one month only.
In the third FRL letter dated 18 June 2021 it felt it had done enough concerning the repair 
issues and it explained the premium increase reasons which Ive already dealt with above.
Mr C in his rejection of the investigators view claims he has a loss of earnings of £1080.00 
concerning the delivery of the courtesy car and indeed dropping his car off and picking it up. 
Admiral asked for proof of these loss of earnings and because that wasnt forthcoming, it paid him £150.00. On the basis that Mr C didnt provide the evidence of his loss of earnings, 
I dont consider Admiral did anything wrong in merely paying a notional £150.00. 
Ive dealt with the issues of the premium increase above which he raised following the 
investigators view. So that includes Mr C wish to be compensated with £2,500.00 for the 
premium increase.
Mr C then said he wants £500.00 for the time and effort in all the chasing calls, plus 
£5,000.00 because his car wasnt repaired properly by the first repairer. As I explained 
above, I have no remit or authority to fine or punish Admiral for the fact that its approved 
repairer didnt repair Mr Cs car satisfactorily and the claim of £5,000.00 is in my view a claim 
for a fine and/or punishment. Admiral paid for the further repair of his car which it should 
have done anyway, plus Mr Cs issue with his brakes. Therefore, I dont think it needs to 
anything more here. As the investigator explained complaint handling by the insurer isnt a 
regulated activity and much of Mr Cs chasing once he rightly raised the complaint that his 
car wasnt repaired properly then concerned the handling of his complaint too. As such I 
dont have any remit to require Admiral do anything further here.
 
Mr C car took a little over two months to be properly repaired, and he was given a courtesy 
car for the duration of that time, in accordance with the provisions of his policy and the fact 
his car was not insured for worked related activity as well. Whilst there were issues with the 
courtesy car, I consider Admiral has adequately dealt with that. So, I consider the provision 
of the courtesy car, the fact that Admiral paid the further repair costs and paid Mr C a total of 
£500 compensation to be adequate. Given the time frame of the upset to Mr C of a little over 
two months, thats in line with what Ive awarded previously so I consider it be fair and 
reasonable.
Claims from accidents cause a substantially amount of trouble and upset in themselves but 
the insurer such as Admiral here didnt cause the accident.   
My final decision
I fully appreciate and understand that Mr C will be deeply disappointed with my decision, 
however for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman