DRN-3802198
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC withdrew its offer to port their existing 
mortgage to a new property, and add new lending, once it became aware that part of the 
property they were buying was subject to an overage agreement.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P wanted to sell their house, which had a mortgage with Barclays, and port their
mortgage to a new property, as well as take out some new lending to support this new
purchase. Barclays gave them a mortgage offer at the start of June. But in August, Barclays
said it wouldnt lend to them after all, because there was an overage on part of the property
they were buying.
Mr and Mrs P said the overage posed no risk to Barclays. They said the area it covered had
been the subject of an application for planning permission which had been refused, then
appealed and refused again, so there was simply no realistic prospect of planning
permission being granted for this part of the land. They also said they had discussed this
with the previous owner of the land, who was the beneficiary of the overage agreement. And
that person had agreed to remove the overage agreement, for a fee. But Mr and Mrs P said
that Barclays was insisting that this provision be removed before completion, which was just
not practically possible, given delays at the Land Registry at the time.
Mr and Mrs P said they had to pay an early repayment charge of £12,106.12 and a
mortgage exit fee of £80 to Barclays, because they werent able to move their existing
lending. Theyd been forced to find a new lender, at very short notice. And that meant they
also had to instruct a new solicitor, because their previous solicitor wasnt one their new
bank would work with. So they said they incurred £780 in extra legal fees. They said they
had to pay an extra mortgage fee to their new lender, of £1,499. And they said that their
buyer dropped the price he was willing to pay, by £3,000, because he could see that Mr and
Mrs P were having difficulties and knew they would have no option but to accept this last
minute reduction. Mr and Mrs P wanted Barclays to pay all of this.
Barclays didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said its offer was subject to compliance
with its internal lending policy, and that policy said Barclays wouldnt lend on any property
which was subject to an overage agreement. So it decided it wouldnt go ahead unless the
overage agreement was removed on or before completion.
Barclays did think it had taken longer than it should to respond to Mr and Mrs Ps solicitor,
while the overage agreement was being discussed, so it offered them £250 to make up for
that. But it wouldnt refund the ERC they had paid.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld, because Barclays had just
followed its own lending policy. And he wouldnt expect a niche issue like an overage policy
to be set out in the mortgage offer documentation. He thought £250 was a reasonable
amount to make up for the delays in responding to Mr and Mrs Ps solicitor.
Mr P didnt agree. He wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was
passed to me for a final decision.
I then reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I only proposed to 
uphold it in part. This is what I said then: 
Mr and Mrs P received a mortgage offer on 3 June. That offer had, on pages 10-12, a
number of special conditions. Condition 8 allowed Barclays to withdraw this offer or 
change its terms, in specified circumstances.
8. We can withdraw the offer or change its terms (whether or not you have agreed to
buy the property), but only before the advance is made under the mortgage, in the
following circumstances: a) where we become aware or suspect that any information
you have provided to enable us to make our lending decision is incorrect or
misleading; b) where any information that we have obtained materially changes and
such change affects our decision to lend; c) where you request and we agree to a
variation in the amount of the loan; d) following internal investigations and/or advice
from our solicitor, valuer or other professional adviser which would directly affect our
decision to lend as the Bank's security might not offer adequate security or the
security the Bank would have expected; e) where it appears that the mortgage will be
in breach of the law; f) to change the offer so as to correct an error in it (such as
inconsistent or inaccurate particulars of you, the property or the terms of the
mortgage).
Mr Ps solicitor wrote to Barclays on 28 July, drawing its attention to a small number of 
points about the property. These included that part of the property was subject to an 
overage deed.
Barclays replied on 3 August, saying Unfortunately, we are unable to proceed whilst the 
overage Agreement is registered on the title to the property, as this falls outside the 
Banks Lending policy. There is no further explanation of this point, and it isnt expressly 
linked by Barclays to any of the conditions set out in the mortgage offer, which allow 
Barclays to withdraw its offer.
Mr Ps solicitors replied on 12 August to say that the beneficiary of the overage 
agreement had agreed to have it removed, subject to a payment to him. The solicitor 
said he would obtain an undertaking from the beneficiarys solicitor to apply for removal 
of the entry following completion.
On 17 August, Barclays replied saying we would advise that we can only proceed if 
the overage is removed on or before completion and written confirmation received from 
you to confirming this.
I dont think that it was fair and reasonable for Barclays to simply say, on 28 July, that it 
had an internal policy not to lend on properties which were subject to an overage 
agreement, when this condition was not set out in the offer document, and Barclays 
hadnt linked this policy to any of the conditions set out in the offer document. And it isnt 
clear that this is just poor communications by Barclays. I cannot see any internal notes 
which make clear Barclays had properly considered whether its right to withdraw was 
triggered.So now I have to think about what should have happened. I think Barclays ought to have 
considered whether the overage agreement meant that one of the terms allowing it to 
withdraw its offer (as set out in Condition 8, above) had been triggered.
Mr P has argued strongly that Barclays could not have reached the view that its security 
would have been affected, but I wouldnt agree with that. Rather, I would expect 
Barclays to take a cautious approach to this. And I think Barclays could reasonably have 
concluded that the condition reading  information that we have obtained materially 
changes and such change affects our decision to lend had been triggered, because the 
new knowledge that the land was subject to an overage agreement was a material 
change. Or Barclays could have concluded that the security it now understood it would 
receive, a property partially subject to an overage agreement, .. might not offer  the 
security the Bank would have expected. So I think the offer could fairly have been 
withdrawn once Barclays had found out the land would be subject to an overage 
agreement, if there was no subsequent deal to remove this agreement.
However, we know that things didnt end there. Mr P then offered to have the overage 
agreement removed from the deeds. His solicitor said he would obtain a solicitors 
undertaking to this effect. I note that a solicitors undertaking is more than just a promise 
that something will be done. Its a binding promise, it is enforceable, and in my view 
ought to carry very considerable weight. I think this proposal by Mr P changed the 
position considerably.
Barclays responded by insisting that the overage agreement be removed either before 
sale, or on completion. But it does seem to me it is unlikely that Barclays could fairly and 
reasonably have withdrawn from the mortgage offer on the basis of the newly 
discovered overage agreement, where a solicitors undertaking was in place that this 
provision would be removed after completion. For that reason, I dont think making 
removal of the overage agreement at or before completion a condition of maintaining the 
mortgage offer was a fair and reasonable response by Barclays.
That means I have to think about how this has affected Mr and Mrs P. Theyve set out a 
number of significant costs they faced, which they would not have faced if Barclays had 
accepted their solicitors proposal to remove the overage agreement.
But I have to assess this complaint in all the circumstances of this case. And Mr and Mrs 
P have also explained that their new lender had no objection to the overage agreement. 
So they did not need to remove this after all. They told us that the cost of doing this 
would have been £15,000.
I dont know whether Mr and Mrs P went ahead with having the overage agreement 
removed or not. But we do know that once they took out a mortgage elsewhere, they no 
longer had to. 
So I have to bear in mind that once I remove the price reduction that Mr and Mrs P were 
subject to by their buyer (which is unfortunately not unusual at a late stage in property 
transactions, and which I dont think Barclays can be held responsible for) they were 
actually, looking at the amounts they have told us about, a little better off remortgaging 
elsewhere, because they didnt need to pay for the overage agreement to be removed. 
That doesnt mean I think Mr and Mrs P werent affected by what has happened here. 
They have clearly experienced significant stress during the later stages of their house 
purchase, as a result of Barclays decision not to lend to them. And at least some of the 
additional costs that they have faced, such as additional solicitors fees, would have 
needed to be paid right away, rather than included in the mortgage and paid off over its remaining term. For these reasons, I think Barclays should pay more than the £250 it 
has offered. I think it should make a payment of £500 in compensation to Mr and Mrs P.
I understand that this is significantly less than Mr and Mrs P were hoping to recover, but 
I think that would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, including the 
points Barclays has already accepted, about whether it provided a timely response to 
their solicitors queries.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it agreed with my provisional decision. But Mr P didnt, and he wanted to make 
some additional points.
Mr P quoted what Id said about expecting Barclays to take a cautious approach to whether 
its security could have been affected by the overage. He said it was important to be clear 
that the overage itself covered only part of the title, a section of garden, not the whole of the 
property (and particularly, not the house). 
Mr P said there were two matters Barclays wasnt willing to consider. One was that the seller 
could have split the title, allowing him to provide a "clean" title as security. And two, that 
Barclays could have obtained a fresh valuation to provide an opinion of market value, to 
reassure it that the house was worth no less with the overage.
Mr P said he didnt think that Barclays took a "cautious response". Rather, he thought it was 
negligent, given that it wouldnt even enter into a discussion on these two options.
Barclays has been clear about its policy not to lend on land which is covered by an overage 
clause. I dont think thats an unreasonable policy for Barclays to have, and I dont think it 
has to make exceptions to that, based on a fresh valuation, as Mr P appears to suggest. 
Mr P also said the title could have been split, so he was only mortgaging the part of the 
property which wasnt subject to an overage clause. I wouldnt expect Barclays to proactively 
suggest this to Mr P, as its a matter for Mr P whether he would wish to enter into such an 
agreement, and would be financially able to do so. If this had been suggested to Barclays, I 
would have expected it to consider this. But I cannot see it was suggested. When Mr Ps 
solicitor responded to Barclays concerns about the overage, he offered to remove the 
overage after the sale, not to split the title of the purchase. 
Its also not clear whether splitting the title would have helped Mr P, or whether this option 
would also have been ruled out by delays at the Land Registry. But the most important thing 
here is that it doesnt seem likely, on the evidence I have to date, that this was suggested to 
Barclays, and I wouldnt expect Barclays to have raised this as an option.
Mr P said Id provisionally decided it was unlikely that Barclays could fairly and reasonably 
withdraw from the mortgage offer once the solicitors undertaking was in place. So Mr P said 
Id explicitly confirmed this was not a fair and reasonable response by Barclays. Mr P has 
suggested a future court case may be based on this. I would note here that our service 
reaches its decisions on a slightly different basis to the courts, and my decision here is not 
intended to be used as a predictor of a courts likely response.Mr P said that Id wrongly assumed he would have had to pay a £15,000 fee to remove the 
overage, but what he would actually have done would be to try to negotiate with the seller to 
cover the cost of removing the overage. He also confirmed that the overage hadnt been 
removed.
I understand that Mr P could have asked the seller to reduce the price, as a result of having 
to pay to remove the overage. However, Mr P has also said he was confident the overage 
wouldnt affect the propertys value at all. So Mr P would essentially have been asking the 
seller to reduce the price, because his purchase costs were now higher. I think that this is 
something Mr P could equally have done, in response to the additional costs arising from his 
need to remortgage elsewhere. 
Mr P said that there wasnt just a delay in providing a timely response to his solicitors 
queries (which Id explicitly noted as one of the reasons for paying compensation in this 
case). He said there were also unacceptable delays in responding to his formal complaint 
which werent addressed in my provisional decision.
Mr Ps formal complaint to Barclays seems to be dated 30 September. Barclays 
acknowledged receipt of this on 7 October. It wrote to apologise for not yet having completed 
its review on 19 October. And it provided a full response on 26 October. This is well within 
the eight weeks that Barclays has, under the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute resolution 
rules, to respond to Mr P. 
At this point, Mr P was able to refer his complaint to our service  he didnt need to write to 
Barclays again and await its further reply. However, I understand that Mr P then replied, and 
Barclays has said unfortunately it didnt receive his response. Once it became aware that Mr 
P had replied, it wrote again, saying it was really sorry it hadnt been able to locate his letter. 
It also reviewed but essentially confirmed its previous response. 
I accept its unfortunate that Mr Ps reply to Barclays wasnt safely received and actioned, 
but I dont think that Barclays response to Mr Ps complaint changes my view of the 
appropriate compensation in this case.
Mr P told us about his professional background, and said it was with the benefit of this 
professional experience and knowledge that he believed Barclays was negligent in its 
actions and treated him unfairly, resulting in a significant financial loss. So Mr P said he 
didnt agree with my decision, and wouldnt wish to accept the compensation offered. 
I have considered Mr Ps further points, but for the reasons set out above, I havent changed 
my mind. I know that Mr P will be disappointed, but I still think its appropriate in this case to 
make the decision I originally proposed. Mr and Mrs P have indicated that they might prefer 
to take this case to court. They would only be bound by this decision if they accept it. So 
they are of course free to reject this decision and litigate, if they would prefer to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Mr and Mrs P £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman