DRN-3797128
The complaint
Mrs S is complaining about Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical. She 
contacted them to ask them to cancel her joint life assurance policy and refund some 
premiums. Shes upset that they havent done that, and with the way theyve handled her 
request.
What happened
Mrs S has held a joint life term assurance policy with her ex-husband, Mr S, since 2001. 
Shes been paying the premiums from a bank account in just her name since 2009. She and 
her husband divorced soon after that. In 2015, Mrs S called Clerical Medical to ask what the 
direct debit was for, and when they told her, explained that she was no longer with Mr S. 
Clerical Medical said they would send her absolute assignment forms to remove Mr S from 
the policy if thats what she chose to do. But she didnt do anything about it at the time.
A few years later, in June 2021, Mrs S received a statement from Clerical Medical and she 
realised at that point that she was still paying for a product that she did not want. She wrote 
to Clerical Medical to ask how she might go about claiming back the premiums shed paid, 
explaining that she suffers from chronic illnesses and mental health conditions. 
Around six weeks later, and after a chaser from Mrs S, Clerical Medical replied to Mrs S, 
incorrectly addressing her as Mr S, saying only that she could cancel the policy but would 
need written confirmation from both policy holders. Mrs S was very unhappy with the 
response and this was escalated to a complaint. 
Clerical Medical provided a written response to Mrs Ss complaint in late October 2021. In it 
they offered £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their poor service. They also 
said they were limited in how much detail they could provide in their letters and strongly 
suggested Mrs S called them to discuss options going forward. Mrs S continued to write to 
Clerical Medical, asking them to communicate by letter as telephone calls were challenging 
for her, and expressing disappointment that Clerical Medical had still not been able to 
address her initial query.
In December 2021, Clerical Medical wrote to Mr and Mrs S, as policyholders, saying We 
refer to your recent request to stop payments to this policy. Your policy has now been put 
into a revivable lapse status This letter is in a standard format with no accompanying 
explanation. They then wrote to Mrs S in January 2022 with a further complaint response. 
This time, they apologised for the service and delays and offered an additional £200 
compensation. The letter said that Clerical Medical couldnt cancel the policy without written 
confirmation from both policyholders and that a refund of premiums couldnt be considered 
until the policy had been cancelled. But it did add that a compromise solution might be 
possible if Mrs S or someone she trusted could speak to Clerical Medical on the phone.
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service in January 2022. She was unhappy that she 
hadnt got anywhere with Clerical Medical and it was exacerbating her existing mental health 
conditions. Since she brought the complaint to us, shes received letters from Clerical 
Medical chasing her for unpaid premiums, which has added further to her stress and upset. 
Our investigator looked into things. He said we couldnt look into Clerical Medicals refusal to 
cancel the policy and said we needed to dismiss that aspect of the complaint. He explained 
that for a joint policy we need to have consent from both policyholders to look into a 
complaint about the policy. He did look at the customer service aspect though  as this was 
about service rather than about the policy. His view was that Clerical Medicals offer of £450 
was enough to compensate Mrs S for the upset their poor service had caused.
Mrs S was very upset with our investigators view  particularly that hed said we couldnt 
look into the main crux of her complaint. So the decision came to me. I issued a provisional 
decision on 31 October 2022. In that, I said that I thought we could look at the whole 
complaint even without Mr Ss consent because in the circumstances the outcome of the 
complaint was unlikely to impact him. And I said that I thought Clerical Medical should have 
taken the decision to stop collecting Mrs Ss payments earlier, in July 2021. I said that 
because I felt it was clear from that date that Mrs S didnt want the policy any more. I 
concluded by saying I thought Clerical Medical should refund Mrs Ss premiums from July 
2021, with 8% simple interest on each. 
Mrs S accepted my provisional decision but Clerical Medical didnt. They said they werent 
aware of all of the circumstances in June 2021. They added that Mrs S could have stopped 
paying at any time, and that they took an exceptional decision in December 2021. I reviewed 
the correspondence again and suggested that Clerical Medical refund premiums from 
October 2021 onwards, as this is when Mrs S first disclosed to Clerical Medical that it 
wouldnt be possible to involve her ex-husband in the matter. Clerical Medical accepted this 
suggestion. Mrs S wasnt happy with my revised position and felt that my suggested redress 
wasnt enough. Ive considered all the points both parties have made and my final decision is 
set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ill explain below, our service can consider Mrs Ss complaint in full. And Ive decided 
Clerical Medical should make a small refund of premiums.
Can we look at the complaint?
Our investigator is right that we normally wouldnt consider a complaint about a joint policy 
unless we have both policyholders consent. Thats because what we decide could impact 
both policyholders  possibly to the detriment of the one who hasnt consented. Mrs S has 
explained to us why contacting Mr S is out of the question. And I can appreciate why this 
would be the case.
In this case, the policy would have paid a lump sum to Mr S if Mrs S died, and to Mrs S if 
Mr S died. So cancellation of the policy would have impacted Mr S. But the policy is now in a 
revivable lapse status  meaning that the only way either party can benefit from it is by 
paying all the unpaid premiums before its expiry in January 2023. Mrs S has made it clear 
she doesnt want to do this. And that she and Mr S arent in contact. Further, Clerical 
Medicals letters to Mr S are sent to Mrs Ss address  so its highly unlikely hes aware of 
the policy. So any retrospective cancellation of the policy or refund of premiums would very 
likely have no impact on Mr S and we can therefore consider the complaint in full without his 
consent.
Cancellation / lapse of the policy
I can understand why Mrs S wants to cancel the policy  and why shed like a refund of 
premiums. However, the policy was entered into jointly by Mr S and Mrs S and so it wouldnt be appropriate for the business to cancel the policy without Mr Ss permission. I cant see 
that Mrs S has disclosed the circumstances around the breakdown of her marriage to 
Clerical Medical so it wouldnt be fair to say they should take those circumstances into 
account. 
After lengthy correspondence, Clerical Medical took the decision to lapse the policy in 
December 2021. They stopped collecting the premiums from Mrs S. I can see this decision 
was taken to try to act in Mrs Ss interests  it had the same effect as cancellation. 
Unfortunately Im not sure Clerical Medical communicated this very well to Mrs S. She didnt 
realise that her monthly payments had stopped, and was sent standard letters chasing her 
for unpaid premiums. I can understand this would have added to her stress and anxiety 
about the matter. Im inclined to say the Clerical Medical took a sensible decision but the 
communication that accompanied it and followed it was poor  they should have explained to 
Mrs S what they had done and disabled the chaser letters or at least told Mrs S that she 
could ignore them. And I think Clerical Medical should have made this decision sooner and 
stopped taking payments earlier. It was clear from the Mrs Ss first correspondence that she 
wanted to stop paying for and benefitting from the policy. But it wasnt clear until Mrs Ss 
letter at the beginning of October 2021 that she wasnt in contact with Mr S. Up until that 
point Clerical Medical couldnt have been aware of the circumstances. So Clerical Medical 
should have taken the decision in early October 2021 and Mrs S has paid three months 
more premiums than she should have done.
Refund of premiums
Although Mrs S feels that shes had no benefit from the premiums shes been paying, she 
would have been entitled to a payment under the policy if Mr S had died. I can understand 
that she might not have wanted to benefit from his death, or might not even have been 
aware if hed died. But Clerical Medical have provided the cover, so I cant tell them they 
should refund any premiums to Mrs S. 
Clerical Medical did say they may be able to consider a refund if Mrs S or someone she 
trusts could phone them, but I cant see that such a conversation took place. Clerical Medical 
have acted fairly in this respect  theyve tried to offer an alternative way of communicating 
to try to resolve matters.
Assignment of the policy
Ive also thought about what happened in 2015 as Mrs S could have avoided many years of 
premiums if the policy had been cancelled in 2015. Or she could potentially have changed 
the policy to one that was more appropriate following the breakdown of her marriage. I can 
see Clerical Medical said they would send forms to Mrs S so that the policy could be 
amended. Mrs S says she never received those forms. However, Mrs S has also told me 
that she was already estranged from Mr S at that point and he wouldnt have signed 
anything. So although theres some dispute about whether or not those forms were sent, Im 
satisfied it wouldnt have made any difference  Clerical Medical would have needed Mr Ss 
agreement to make any changes to the policy and Mrs S tells us they wouldnt have got it.
Customer service
Clerical Medical have already apologised for their customer service and paid £450 to Mrs S 
to compensate her for the impact this has had on her. Im satisfied this is a fair amount. I can 
see that Clerical Medical didnt respond to some of Mrs Ss letters in a timely or helpful way. 
And I can understand that addressing a letter to Mr S would have been very upsetting for 
Mrs S. But the amount Clerical Medical have paid already is enough.Summary
As Ive explained above, I cant say that Clerical Medical should have cancelled Mrs Ss 
policy or refunded any premiums paid before October 2021. But they should refund the 
premiums paid since then because they should have stopped taking Mrs Ss payments at 
that point. And they should pay 8% per annum simple interest on those premiums. They 
dont need to do anything else to put things right  theyve already paid Mrs S enough to 
compensate her for the impact of their poor service.
My final decision
Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical need 
to refund the premiums Mrs S paid from October 2021 onwards, together with 8% per 
annum simple interest from the date of each premium payment to the settlement date.
If Scottish Widows Limited trading as Clerical Medical consider that theyre required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs S how 
much theyve taken off. They should also give Mrs S a tax deduction certificate if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman