DRN-3873029
The complaint
Ms F complains that BUPA Insurance Limited has unfairly declined her claim for treatment 
under her private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Ms F took out a private medical insurance policy with BUPA on 26 October 2020. The policy 
cover started on 12 November 2020. The policy was underwritten on a moratorium basis.
On 14 December 2020 Ms F contacted BUPA to obtain authorisation for a referral to see a 
gynaecologist as she was suffering from abdominal pain. BUPA said it would need to check 
that the abdominal pain hadnt been in existence prior to the policy start date and so it asked 
for information from her GP. BUPA said the information provided suggested that the 
symptoms had started in October 2020 and so, declined the claim.
Ms F disputed that these symptoms were pre-existing and so BUPA agreed to obtain further 
information from her GP. Ms Fs GP said that this new abdominal pain started in December 
2020. BUPA therefore agreed to provide cover for diagnostic tests and a consultation with a 
gynaecologist.
In their report, the gynaecologist stated that the pain appeared to be higher up the abdomen 
and so referred Ms F to a gastroenterologist. As there was still some concern that Ms F had 
suffered from abdominal pain previously, BUPA said it would need to see her full medical 
history for the five years prior to the policy start date before it could authorise any further 
treatment.
When Ms F provided her medical records, BUPA noted that there appeared to be gaps in 
her history. It said that there were tests that appeared to have taken place but there werent 
any notes of consultations with her GP to determine what these tests were for. So, it said it 
wouldnt authorise any further treatment until full medical records were provided.
Unhappy with this, and also BUPAs customer service whilst handling the claim, Ms F 
complained and brought the matter to this service. Our investigator looked into the matter 
but didnt uphold the complaint. She noted that the policy didnt cover conditions which were 
in existence in the five years prior to the policy start date and as there was mention in the 
records of previous abdominal pain, she thought it was fair for BUPA to require sight of Ms 
Fs full medical records from this time to enable it to authorise treatment. As there appeared 
to be gaps in Ms Fs medical history in that five-year period, she found it reasonable for 
BUPA to withhold the authorisation of any further treatment until more details were provided.
And in relation to the customer service, the investigator agreed that there were occasions 
when BUPA could have handled things better and that there had been confusion over the 
information that was needed. But she felt that the £150 compensation offered by BUPA was 
a fair and reasonable sum for what had happened. So, she didnt think that BUPA needed to 
do anything more.
Ms F disagreed with our investigators view. As no agreement could be reached the matter 
was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 23 November 2022. In it I said the following:
It is important to point out that were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as a free
alternative to the courts for consumers. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue or point made
in turn. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to Ms F. Rather it reflects the informal nature of
our service, its remit, and my role in it.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that insurers must handle claims fairly and
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into account when deciding
what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Fs complaint.
The policy terms and conditions
Ms Fs policy is underwritten on a moratorium basis. The policy certificate states the 
following:
Moratorium
This means that if you have a claim we will ask you questions about your or any 
dependant's health and medical history and may ask for a medical report (which we 
do not pay for).
If you or a Dependant has any Moratorium Condition, that will not be covered.
A Moratorium Condition is any disease, illness or injury or related condition, whether 
diagnosed or not, which you or your Dependant:
received medication for
asked for or received, medical advice or Treatment for
experienced symptoms of, or
were to the best of your knowledge aware existed
in the five years before your start date stated in this Certificate.
By a "related condition" we mean any symptom, disease, illness or injury which 
reasonable medical opinion considers to be associated with another symptom, 
disease, illness or injury.
We will pay for treatment of a Moratorium Condition if after the relevant start date you 
or your Dependant do not:
receive any medication for
ask for or receive any medical advice or Treatment for, or
experience symptoms of,
the condition for a continuous period of two years while you are covered under this 
policy.Please call us to check that any proposed Treatment is covered, before you 
arrange the Treatment.
I think the above makes it clear that BUPA wont cover any medical conditions, whether 
diagnosed or not, which a policyholder had experienced symptoms of in the five years before 
the policy began. In this case, the relevant moratorium period began in November 2020.
Has the claim been declined fairly?
BUPA said that when Ms F first made contact in December 2020, she indicated that the 
abdominal pain had started in October 2020 but in a follow up conversation she said she had 
been suffering from these symptoms for only a month. BUPA therefore sought further 
information from Ms Fs GP in order to check if the symptoms pre-dated the start of the 
policy. As Ms F had taken out a policy underwritten on a moratorium basis, I dont think it is 
unreasonable for BUPA to check her previous medical history to ensure she was eligible 
under the policy before considering approving her claim.
The information supplied by Ms Fs GP seemed to provide conflicting dates regarding when 
the abdominal pain first started. In the claim form they stated the pain started in October 
2020 but mentioned in other correspondence that Ms F had been suffering from this pain 
since December 2020. Therefore, BUPA requested her full medical records. When her 
records were provided, BUPA stated that there appeared to be information missing in the 
relevant five-year period and this prevented them from approving her claim.
After reviewing all of the medical information which was supplied to BUPA in support of the 
claim, both in forms of the individual letters from Ms Fs GP and the copies of the medical 
records, I can see that there does seem to be a lack of information in her history during this 
time. Whilst there are quite detailed records up until 2012, the information after this date is 
scant. However, it is clear that Ms F did have tests during the five year period but the notes 
of the consultations that would have led to these tests are missing  so it isnt clear what 
symptoms Ms F had been suffering from that meant she was referred for these tests.
Having looked at some of the medical information supplied, I can see that there is conflicting 
information about when these symptoms started. A gastroenterologists report states Ms F 
had been suffering from non-specific generalised abdominal pain since June 2020 and there 
is mention of PR bleeding which has been on and off from approximately August 2020. I can 
also see that a liver function test was recorded in October 2020. All of this information 
suggests that the presence of abdominal pain was prior to the start date of the policy in 
November 2020.
Ms F has stated that some of these tests related to treatment she had for a different 
condition, which she has not claimed for, and that the claims she wanted to make through 
BUPA were for a different type of abdominal pain. Ive noted BUPA did agree to pay for tests 
and a follow up consultation with a gynaecologist when it was confirmed by her GP that this 
referral was unrelated to any of her previous history. But as no gynaecological issue was 
found and a further referral was made for a gastroenterology appointment, again due to 
abdominal pain, BUPA said it couldnt consider this without sight of Ms Fs full medical 
history.
Im aware that Ms F has said the gaps in her medical history were as a result of an error with 
her GP not updating the records properly. I appreciate that this wasnt something within her 
control and so I understand her frustration. However, that doesnt mean I think BUPA should 
automatically accept her claim without further reasonable evidence. It has looked at the 
available information and reached a decision based on what has been provided. I think that 
is a reasonable approach in these circumstances.Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that BUPA has acted in accordance with its 
policy terms and conditions when assessing her claims. And therefore, I think it was 
reasonable for BUPA to refuse to approve any further claims without her full history.
Additional medical evidence
Since our investigator issued her view, Ms F has submitted additional medical records to this 
service. As this is new information which Ms F wants to be taken into consideration, this has 
been shared with BUPA for it to review in relation to the complaint.
BUPA has looked at the information and stated that it doesnt make a difference to the 
outcome. It has referred to entries from May 2020 where abdominal pain is first mentioned 
and that this issue appears to have been ongoing since then, with several ultrasound tests 
completed and referrals to gynaecological and gastroenterology specialists. As the GP has 
mentioned in September 2020 that this is ongoing abdominal pain, BUPA has said it 
believes these symptoms were already in existence prior to the policy start date and 
therefore not covered under the moratorium conditions.
Ive reviewed this new evidence supplied. And I can see that within this information is a letter 
from Ms Fs GP dated 12 October 2022. In this letter they state that Ms F presented with 
abdominal and pelvic pain in January 2020 and that this was a different pain to that which 
she was used to having. They said she was seen by a gynaecologist in August 2020 and 
gastroenterologist in May 2021 to investigate her symptoms. In addition to this, Ms F also 
provided additional consultation notes from her GP practice. These show entries from May 
2020, July 2020, September 2020, and October 2020 where there is mention of abdominal 
pain.
From looking at this documentation, there are multiple occasions when abdominal pain has 
been mentioned in the year prior to Ms F taking out the policy. And it appears this has been 
an ongoing issue, with Ms F seeing various consultants and receiving tests over a period of 
several months. So, I dont think it is unreasonable for BUPA to conclude that the symptoms 
which has caused Ms F to seek treatment under her private medical insurance policy are 
pre-existing. Whilst Ive noted Ms Fs comments regarding the inaccuracies of some of the 
information, I dont think that there is currently sufficient evidence or reasonable grounds 
upon which it would be fair for me to ask BUPA to accept her claim. Im therefore not 
persuaded that BUPA needs to do anything more.
Customer service
Ms F is unhappy with the customer service she has received from BUPA when handling her 
claim. She has said she was given conflicting information about what was needed and that 
the process caused her stress at a time when she was already in pain. I can appreciate that 
this must have been a difficult time for Ms F and the ongoing requests for information have 
caused her a great deal of frustration. BUPA has acknowledged that its requests for 
information could have been clearer, specifically in relation to information regarding a 
gastroenterology referral, and has offered £150 in compensation. Ms F doesnt think this is 
enough.
It is important to point out that it would generally always be necessary to provide medical 
history with a policy underwritten on a moratorium basis and so requests for information will 
be inevitable. The unusual situation surrounding Ms Fs medical records does appear to 
have been the main factor for this problem and Im not persuaded that BUPA could have 
done anything differently in the circumstances.
Based on everything Ive seen, Im satisfied that the offer of £150 compensation is reasonable for the incident that occurred. I dont require BUPA to do anything further.
BUPA responded to say it had received the decision but didnt provide any more comments. 
Ms F provided further medical information in the form of a letter from her GP, a copy of a 
referral form and also a report from a consultant regarding treatment she had received.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information Ms F has provided since issuing my provisional decision and 
considered this carefully. But this doesnt alter my outcome. Ill explain why.
The medical information shows that Ms F saw a gynaecologist in August 2020, as she was 
suffering from supra pubic pain, but the consultant states the pain is not gynecologically 
related. This consultation took place prior to taking out the policy. So, this report suggests 
that Ms F was suffering from abdominal pain, which wasnt related to a gynaecological issue, 
several months prior to the policy coming into force. This information doesnt confirm that the 
abdominal pain Ms F sought treatment for in December 2020 wasnt related to these 
previous symptoms. 
Ms F has also supplied a letter from her GP which refers to reports of non-specific 
generalised abdominal pain since June 2020. The letter then goes on to refer to tests and 
treatment Ms F had in 2021 and 2022 and when conditions were first mentioned. It also says 
that Ms F states her chronic pain was a different pain to that which caused her to seek a 
referral from BUPA. 
It is important to remember that the policy Ms F took out through BUPA doesnt provide 
cover for medical conditions, whether diagnosed or not, in the five years prior to taking out 
the insurance. So even though Ms F may not have received a diagnosis until after the policy 
was taken out, there does seem to be a history of ongoing symptoms of abdominal pain from 
before November 2020 (when the moratorium began on her policy). This is detailed in her 
medical records and mentioned in the recent documents sent. Ms F says the pain she was 
seeking a referral for was different to the pain she had previously had, but there isnt the 
medical evidence to confirm this is the case. So, Im not persuaded that BUPA has acted 
unfairly when declining her claim on the basis that her symptoms were in existence prior to 
taking out the policy. I therefore dont require BUPA to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman