DRN-3297692
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that U K Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service under a
breakdown assistance insurance policy.
Where I refer to UKI, I include call-handlers, roadside assistance providers and others
insofar as I hold UKI responsible for their actions. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had a breakdown assistance insurance policy branded with the name of a
bank. UKI was the insurance company that was responsible for dealing with claims.
On 16 November 2020, Mr Bs vehicle broke down. So he contacted UKI. A message said
that a mechanic would attend by 10:02. But when Mr B rang after that time, UKI said it would
attend by 13:00. In the event, help arrived at about 11:15.
Mr B complained to UKI. By a final response dated mid-November 2020, UKI offered Mr B
compensation of £50.00.
Mr B obtained a recording of his call to UKI. By a letter in early March 2021, he complained
to UKI that it had caused him a mental health episode.
By a final response dated late March 2021, UKI offered Mr B £150.00 compensation. In early
April 2021, Mr B wrote to UKI again. UKI replied in mid-April 2021. Mr B brought his 
complaint to us in late April 2021.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
£200.00 was fair and reasonable and in line with what we wouldve recommended. She
thought that UKI had addressed the points raised and recognised the distress the delays
caused.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs B and to UKI on 17 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
UKI was increasing its earlier offer of £50.00 by a further £150.00 to make a total of
£200.00.
£200.00 is fair and reasonable and in line with what I wouldve directed if UKI hadnt 
made such an offer.
Although that outcome is in line with UKIs final responses as explained to us, UKI 
hadnt paid Mr B. 
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs B or from UKI, my provisional decision 
was to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr B 
£200.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr B accepted the provisional decision.
UKI disagreed with the provisional decision. It says, in summary, that:
Its final response in mid-November 2020 noted that Mr B did not wish for 
compensation, as he advised he would go through the courts instead. That is why no 
compensation was sent.
Its final response said that if Mr B wished to accept the compensation then all he 
would need to do would be to email.
It would not be fair to penalise UKI for abiding by Mr B's wishes.
If it had sent the compensation, then this would have aggravated the situation further.
Therefore, UKI asks that we amend to a no change in favour. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen some letters from a counsellor and doctors confirming that Mr B has suffered from
PTSD (post-traumatic stress disorder) and depression for many years. When his vehicle
broke down, he was already in a difficult situation. Thats why he contacted UKI for help. I
dont hold UKI responsible for the breakdown, but I do hold UKI responsible for its response.
I have no reason to doubt that the message led Mr B to expect help by about 10.00. Thats
what he said when he rang UKI shortly after that time. I accept that Mr B was upset when
UKI mentioned a time of 13.00. He told UKI about his illness.
From the call recording, I accept that Mr B was, of course, upset by what UKI told him. But
the letters from the counsellor and doctors dont mention the events of that day. So Mr B
hasnt provided enough medical evidence to persuade me that UKI caused him a personal
injury.
I consider that UKI did the right thing by staying with Mr B on the telephone until help arrived
at about 11:15.
Afterwards, UKI accepted that it had provided conflicting information to Mr B. UKIs final
response dated 19 November 2020 acknowledged an error with the system. The letter
included the following:
To say sorry for this, I wanted to send you a compensation payment of £50.00.
However, from the notes I see you have confirmed you dont want any compensation
from us and will seek this through the courts instead. If you do change your mind,
please let me know.
So I consider that UKI was leaving open an offer of £50.00.UKIs later final response dated late March 2021 included the following:
Im sorry our actions have caused further distress to you. To try and make up for this
Id like to offer you £150 compensation. If youd like me to send this to you, just email
me and Ill arrange this for you.
There was no reference to the earlier final response in the later final response.
But in May 2021, UKI told us the following:
We had previously awarded £50 compensation for the first complaint but based
upon the new information that was provided and the impact this had on Mr [B's]
mental state, we awarded a further £150 for the distress and upset caused.
So UKI was increasing its earlier offer of £50.00 by a further £150.00 to make a total of
£200.00. I find it fair and reasonable to hold UKI to keeping open its offer of a total of 
£200.00.
Putting things right
Ive thought about whether thats enough compensation to reflect the impact on Mr B of the
shortcomings in UKIs service. Ive weighed up Mr Bs illness, the duration of the incident
and the fact that UKI stayed on the call. Overall, I consider that £200.00 is fair and
reasonable and in line with what I wouldve directed if UKI hadnt made such an offer.
That outcome is in line with UKIs final responses as explained to us. So Im not directing a 
change in outcome. But UKI hasnt paid Mr B. So I uphold this complaint in part and I will 
direct UKI to pay Mr B £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr B £200.00 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman