DRN-3430395
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC removed his overdraft facility.
What happened
Mr P says Lloyds removed his overdraft facility in September 2021. He says Lloyds told him 
he needed to make a deposit into his account, or the overdraft facility would be removed. 
And says he paid £80 into his account on 20 August 2021. Mr P says despite this Lloyds 
removed the overdraft which meant his direct debits were not paid. He says Lloyds told him 
it made an error and would like £500 compensation for what took place. He also says he 
was caused distress and anxiety and his credit file has been affected.
Lloyds says it told Mr P on 23 August 2021 that his overdraft facility would be withdrawn on 
29 September 2021. It says the account terms and conditions allow it to remove an overdraft 
facility and says Mr P had not credited his account since April 2021. Lloyds says it was Mr 
Ps responsibility to make sure there was enough money in the account to pay the direct 
debits and says it has a duty to provide accurate information to the Credit Reference 
Agencies (CRAs). It doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the overdraft facility was repayable on demand and that Lloyds was entitled to 
remove it. The investigator accepted that Lloyds had sent a letter on 20 August 2021 in 
which Mr P was told to pay money into the account but thought the letter of 23 August 2021 
told Mr P the facility was being removed. 
Mr P doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that having looked at Mr Ps account terms and conditions that Lloyds is entitled 
to remove an overdraft facility and that such a facility is repayable on demand. I appreciate 
that Lloyds sent Mr P two letters about his account but am satisfied that its up to Lloyds to 
decide when exercising its commercial judgement if it offers a customer an overdraft facility. 
So, I dont think Lloyds made a mistake or acted unfairly by removing Mr Ps overdraft facility 
here.
I have looked carefully at both letters Lloyds sent to Mr P on 20 and 23 August 2021. The 
first letter told Mr P that he needed to make regular payments into his account to keep the 
overdraft facility and that he needed to make a deposit into it. I appreciate Mr P paid £80 into 
his account that day but I think he ought reasonably to have been aware that Lloyds had 
clear concerns about the overdraft facility and the account balance.
The next letter was sent to Mr P on 23 August 2021. Im satisfied that letter was clear, and 
that Lloyds told Mr P that it was removing the overdraft facility on 29 September 2021. I also 
think it ought to have been clear to Mr P that despite what was said in the earlier letter and 
despite the deposit into the account that Lloyds was still intent on removing the overdraft 
facility. It follows that I dont think Lloyds made a mistake by later removing the facility and 
am satisfied that it gave Mr P over a month to make sure there was enough money in his 
account to pay the direct debits. I find that it was Mr Ps responsibility to manage his 
account.
Im satisfied that Lloyds has a duty to report accurate information to the CRAs. I have not 
seen Mr Ps credit file but have no reason to conclude that inaccurate information has been 
reported on it. And for the reasons I have made clear, find that any information reported on it 
as a result of the overdraft facility being removed is entitled to be reported.
Overall, Im satisfied Lloyds told Mr P in clear terms it was removing his overdraft facility 
which its entitled to do in line with agreed account terms and conditions. It follows that it was 
then Mr Ps responsibility to manage his account and make sure the direct debits could be 
paid. I cant in those circumstances fairly award compensation or order any information be 
removed from Mr Ps credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman