DRN-2691022
The complaint
Mr C has complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limiteds decision to decline a 
claim he made for water damage under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C contacted his insurer, Lloyds in September 2019 to report a leak in his home. He said 
hed noticed a stain on the living room ceiling before going away at the end of August for a 
weeks holiday. He said he sealed around the bath above the living room. 
Lloyds instructed a loss adjuster (LA) to visit Mr Cs home to consider his claim. In October 
2019 the first LA raised concerns about the validity of the claim. A second LA was instructed 
and they visited in November 2019. They declined Mr Cs claim. They said there were 
discrepancies in the information Mr C had given and some of the damage was similar to 
damage caused and reported under a previous claim in 2015 for which Mr C received a cash 
settlement for repairs. 
Mr C was unhappy with the decision and complained to Lloyds. He felt Lloyds should have 
decided about his claim rather than an agent acting on their behalf. He was unhappy that 
Lloyds didnt have an independent appeal process.
In June 2020 Lloyds replied to Mr Cs complaint. Having considered the opinions of both 
LAs and photos of the damage from 2019 and 2015, it said the decision to decline Mr Cs 
claim was correct. It said the evidence didnt show the damage had been caused by a one 
off event, but had occurred over a gradual period of time. Lloyds said that it would consider 
any further information Mr C submitted to support his claim.
Mr C asked us to look at his complaint. He said Lloyds didnt answer all of his queries. He 
said he did provide information the LA asked for and corrected previous errors. Mr C wants 
Lloyds to agree the points he made, reimburse him for the costs of the repairs, apologise 
and pay compensation for distress & inconvenience caused to him and his family.
Our investigator thought Lloyds had properly considered Mr Cs claim and its decision to 
decline it was fair and in line with the policy.
Mr C didnt agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt unusual for an insurer to appoint a professional expert such as a LA to make an 
assessment on a claim; and for the insurer to rely on their findings. We dont think this is an 
unreasonable approach to take provided the insurer can show it treated its customer fairly 
when investigating their claim.
It isnt for us to tell a business how to handle a claim or complaint  but to consider whether 
it acted in a fair and reasonable way and in line with the policy terms. 
Mr C says he had to take time off work when both LAs visited his home. Having to make a 
claim will inevitably cause some disruption and time. I think this was unavoidable in order for 
Lloyds to investigate and consider his claim. Mr Cs policy with Lloyds says that when 
dealing with a claim, he must provide Lloyds with any information and assistance they may 
reasonably require. 
In October 2019 the first LA wrote to Mr C following their visit. Mr C provided job sheets from 
contractors in September 2019 for sealant repairs to the bath and electrics were turned off 
due to water damage coming through the ceiling where the light fitting was. 
The first LA said there was evidence of an escape of water. However, they identified 
deterioration including poor or lack of sealant, stains, rot and damp to several areas of Mr 
Cs bathroom above, the bathroom floor, a bedroom, the landing, and the ceiling in the living 
room which they said showed exposure to water over a prolonged period of time and not as 
a one off event. They found that damage to the living room floor Mr C claimed for wasnt 
related to the claim. Photos provided from 2015 and 2019 show water damage to Mr Cs 
ceiling in and around the light fitting. They said Mr C wasnt able to provide receipts for 
repairs following the settlement of his claim for water damage in 2015. So the first LA said a 
second LA would visit in order to further consider whether Mr Cs claim was valid.
I understand Mr C provided the second LA with some but not all of the information it asked 
for as part of their enquiries. The second LA declined Mr Cs claim in March 2020 based on 
their findings that the damage had been ongoing for some time  and in their view would 
have been evident to Mr C. They explained that that Mr Cs policy with Lloyds excluded 
cover for damage caused by a gradually operating cause. 
In June 2020 Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. Proof that Mr C and his family had gone 
on holiday immediately after noticing the water related damage to substantiate when the 
incident occurred hadnt been received. However, Lloyds told Mr C that this was not the sole 
reason for declining the claim.
Lloyds said based on the photos and opinion provided by both Loss Adjusters, the damage 
presented wasnt caused by a one off event and had been evident for some time before 
action was taken to stop it. It said that if Mr C provided further information, it would review it. 
I think this was a reasonable approach to take. 
I understand Mr C is very disappointed with Lloyds decision. But I think it properly 
investigated his claim and reached its decision to decline it in a reasonable way and in line 
with the policy. From all of the evidence available, the damage appears consistent with 
occurring gradually over time and not as a one off event. So this means the damage is 
excluded from Mr Cs policy with Lloyds. And if Mr C provides any new information, Lloyds 
said it will consider this, which I think is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman