DRN-1209137
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Santander UK Plc (trading as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold 
them a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a 
loan in September 2008. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out a loan online in September 2008. The loan was for £2,500 to be 
repaid over a period of 60 months. At the same time they purchased a single premium PPI 
policy that covered Mr M only in the event that he wasnt working due to accident, sickness 
or unemployment. A successful claim on the policy wouldve covered their loan repayments 
for up to 60 months in the event of accident or sickness and up to 18 months for an 
unemployment claim. And the balance of the loan wouldve been repaid if Mr M died.
Our adjudicator through this complaint should be upheld. She said she didnt think the policy 
represented good value for Mr and Mrs M. And if the information about the costs and 
benefits had been clearer, she didnt think Mr and Mrs M wouldve purchased it.
Santander disagrees so the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about this sort of insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account 
when deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Having done so, I have to tell Santander that 
I think the adjudicator reached the right outcome here. And I think she set out the position 
very clearly so theres very little I can usefully add to whats already been said.
Ive read the policy document and see that over the five year loan and policy term Mr M 
wouldve only been able to claim for unemployment benefit for a maximum of 18 months. If 
they needed further unemployment cover, they would have to buy another policy.
To recover the cost of the policy Mr M would have to make a successful claim for 15 months. 
So the maximum benefit Mr M could receive under the policy was just 3 monthly loan 
repayments under the unemployment element of the policy. And I simply do not think this 
represents good value for money. And had this been clear to Mr and Mrs M, I dont think 
they wouldve seen value in the policy and I dont think they wouldve purchased it.
 
 
Putting things rightMr and Mrs M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been and they paid more than they shouldve each month. So Mr and Mrs M need to get 
back the extra theyve paid. 
So, Santander UK Plc should:
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs M the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs M paid each month from when 
they paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 
and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander UK Plc 
can take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander UK Plc must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off 
if they ask for one. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr and 
Mrs M fair compensation as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman