DRN-2628542
The complaint
Mr B has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a fee-paying Advance 
account in January 2008. This account was migrated to a Advance account with Insurance 
aspects in 2014. This was not a new sale but rather a rebranding of the existing product 
range.
Mr B says that he never used any of the benefits that the account came with.  
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they didnt think the Advance account 
had been mis-sold or that HSBC did anything else wrong. Mr B disagreed so his complaint 
was passed to me to issue a decision.
This decision will only be looking at whether the Advance account was mis-sold or if HSBC 
did anything wrong in relation to the migration to the Advance account with Insurance 
aspect. Mr B has mentioned that he was in financial difficulties in 2018 and 2019 and HSBC 
did not treat him fairly in relation to this, but I cant see that this was ever raised directly with 
HSBC. So he would need to direct this to HSBC if he is still unhappy in relation to this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having done so, I dont think the 
packaged bank account was mis-sold to Mr B.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B, but Id like to assure him that I have 
considered everything he has provided and said. I think it would be helpful to explain, that 
where matters are either unclear or in dispute, as they are here, I need to decide what I think 
is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence that is available. There is also very 
little information that HSBC has been able to provide from the time of sale, which is 
unsurprising given the timescales involved. 
Ive started by considering whether or not Mr B was given a fair choice in opening his 
account. In this case, I can see that Mr B already held a fee-free account with HSBC prior to 
opening the Advance account  so I think he was aware that fee-free accounts existed and 
were an option for him. Mr B has also not explained what he was told that wouldve made 
him think that he had to upgrade his account. Mr B has also explained that he did not agree 
to the account but if that were the case I think that he wouldve queried why his account was 
changed much sooner than he did.
So I think it likely that Mr B was aware that the account was optional and he agreed to it 
knowing that he did not have to have it if he did not wish to do so, albeit that this may be in 
circumstances that he no longer recalls.
I also note that shortly after the account was taken out Mr B paid for a visa to the US and I 
can see various other transactions that suggests overseas travel. Given that one of the 
features of the account was travel insurance and fee free overseas cash withdrawals, it 
suggests that this was possibly why the account was taken out. So when taking everything 
that I have seen on this case into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr B agreed to 
the Advance account. And this was likely because he was attracted (at least initially) to the 
features it offered, rather than because he felt he had no choice. 
I note that Mr B has explained that the payments on his account that indicate that he travels 
were not carried out by him. But overall albeit on balance I think that it is likely that they were 
carried out by him and they indicate that he does travel abroad otherwise I think he wouldve 
questioned these transactions at the time. (Or at least did around the time of the upgrade).
My understanding of HSBCs sales process at the time the account was taken out was that it 
did not make a personal recommendation as to whether the account was right for a 
customer. It did though have to give Mr B enough information to allow him to do this himself. 
I cant be sure if HSBC gave Mr B all of the important information about the account during 
the sales process. But I think the main benefits wouldve been highlighted to make the 
account seem attractive. I also cant see anything specific about the benefits of the account 
that Mr B may not have been told that wouldve likely altered his decision to take out the 
account.
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mr B may now feel that the account 
has been poor value for money, and he may now regret opening a fee-paying account. I also 
note that over the years the benefits have changed and now include benefits that he does 
not need.
But overall Ive not seen enough for me to say that he was mis-sold the Advance account in 
the first instance. I therefore think it would be inappropriate to require HSBC to refund the 
fees Mr B has paid for the account.
I note that Mr B is also unhappy with the Advance account changing to a Advance account 
with Insurance Aspects but again I should explain that this was not a separate sale but a 
continuation of the Advance account. So HSBC did not need to get Mr B consent for this 
change. HSBC says it notified him in advance of the change in 2014 and sent him a letter 
each year asking him to check if he still wanted it. Ive looked at the example 
correspondence that HSBC says it sent to Mr B in 2014 and in my view, it does make clear 
what the account change is and what his options are. As the post is normally reliable, I think 
its more likely than not that he received that letter. So I dont think that HSBC did anything 
wrong in relation to this.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman