DRN-3409175
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that TSB Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent them losing money 
when they were tricked into sending funds to a TSB accountholder. 
Although the loss comes from a joint account, for ease of reading Ill mostly only refer to 
Mr G.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In October 2020 Mr G sent £8,100 from his 
joint account with his own bank H to an account held with TSB. At the time he believed the 
payment was for the purchase of a vehicle hed seen online. Unfortunately, it later transpired 
that this was a scam. 
Once hed discovered this Mr G reported this to H who in turn informed TSB on 
29 October 2020. TSB responded to say that by that point none of Mr Gs funds could be 
recovered. I understand that H reimbursed Mr G £4,050 (that being half his loss).
Mr G complained to TSB, he thinks they should reimburse him the outstanding 50%. TSB 
didnt agree and the matter was referred to our service. One of our Investigators didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. In summary she didnt think there were 
failures by TSB which contributed to Mr Gs loss. Mr G disagrees and has asked for an 
Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like all banks TSB are required to have processes in place to conduct due diligence when 
opening accounts. Im satisfied they had such systems in place and they have evidenced 
that they followed their processes and procedures when opening the account in question. 
Mr G has asked questions about the extent of that due diligence and what exactly was 
involved. This isnt something Im able to share as it involves TSBs internal systems and 
putting the full details of a banks checks in the public domain might be of use to fraudsters. 
But I can see that this included the checking of a passport as part of the identity documents. 
Mr G has provided part of an email he says is from the police which suggests the 
documentation provided at account opening was fraudulent. TSBs systems record that a 
passport was checked, but they havent been able to provide a copy of the document. 
Even if it could conclusively be shown that the document provided was a fake, that on its 
own wouldnt automatically mean that TSB were at fault or should be liable for Mr Gs 
outstanding loss. Unless it was such a poor fake that it should easily have been identified as 
such and wasnt. 
TSB arent required to hold all documentation indefinitely. And in cases like this I have to 
make my judgement based on the available evidence. On balance, I think its most likely that 
plausibly genuine documents were presented at account opening. I dont think I can safely 
say that there was a failure at account opening by TSB. Ive not seen anything to persuade 
me that TSB would have known when opening the account that it would later go on to be 
used in connection with a fraud or scam. It follows that I dont think there is any reason 
based on the opening of the account to ask TSB to do more here. 
Ive also reviewed the activity on the account that received Mr Gs funds. There isnt anything 
about the activity that I think ought to have prompted TSB to have intervened in the 
operation of the account, prior to receiving notification of fraud. The account was relatively 
newly opened, and the activity broadly follows what would be expected for an account of that 
type and its intended use. And by the time TSB were put on notice that their account had 
received funds as the result of a scam, Mr Gs money had all already been spent. So, I dont 
think TSB are responsible for any failures that meant money wasnt recovered that otherwise 
would have been. 
Mr G has asked several further questions which include the specific length of time the 
account was open for, whether he was the only victim of the accountholder and what if any 
details have been passed to the police. TSB have provided our service with sufficient 
information to enable us to investigate the complaint. And the further information Mr G has 
requested isnt relevant to answering the crux of his complaint (that being whether TSB 
ought to reimburse him). I wouldnt expect TSB to report matters to the police, this would be 
for Mr G to do as the victim.  I am however confident that TSB will share any relevant 
information they hold with the police upon a request to do so. 
Im of course sorry to hear that Mr G lost so much money as the result of a scam. And Im 
pleased he was able to recover at least part of this from H. But as I dont think TSB are 
responsible for his outstanding loss (or part of it), I cant fairly tell them to do more to resolve 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman