DRN-2081623
The complaint
Miss W complains about the level of service she has received from Tavistock Partners 
Limited. She says her self-invested personal pension (SIPP) has fallen in value and never 
seems to grow. She says she never receives advice or an explanation about why this is 
happening.
What happened
Miss W says she has had the same adviser since 2001 and as he has moved from business 
to business over his career, she has moved the advice and servicing of her pension to 
whichever business her adviser was working for. Tavistock Partners Limited has been her 
independent financial adviser (IFA) since 2010.
Miss W complained to the business in 2019. She said she had a personal pension plan 
(PPP) with a well-known pension provider in 2001 with a fund value of £20,092.27. She 
complained her pension fund was worth £13,000 by 2019. She said she paid advisor fees to 
the business but didnt receive any advice or communication from the business and had no 
reviews since 2010. She was concerned that her pension was dwindling but she couldnt get 
any advice about why this was happening or how to correct it. 
The business said Miss W had been offered reviews, it had left telephone messages and it 
had written to her. It said that while she might not have made use of the service, it was 
available to her. It did feel that it hadnt contacted her about reviews after June 2017 and so 
it offered to refund the fees it had taken since June 2017.
In terms of the value of Miss Ws pension, Miss Ws PPP was worth £20,092.27 on 1 
October 2007, according to a valuation we have on file from her pension provider at that 
time. Another letter from Miss Ws pension provider dated 6 October 2008 says her PPP was 
worth £16,347.68. Theres also a valuation of her PPP, dated 6 July 2009 quoting a fund 
value of £14,240.56. A more recent valuation dated 8 May 2019 showed a value of 
£13,935.24  about £300 lower than the 2009 valuation.
In terms of the service Miss W has received from the business, it wrote to her in September 
2010 and outlined the service it would provide. It said she would be contacted once a year 
and offered a financial review and provided with a summary of the products she held with the 
business. She appears to have transferred to a SIPP around this time.
Miss W and her partner wrote to the business in 2014 and complained about the lack of 
reviews over the last five years. The business responded and said it had sent annual 
reports, bi-annual statements and newsletters. It apologised if Miss W had had problems 
with online access to information but said she could have called and let the business know. 
The business invited her to contact it if she wanted any assistance.
The business provided evidence that Miss W was offered reviews in 2015 and 2016. 
The business wrote to Miss W on 30 June 2017 about moving her investment and it said it 
wouldnt be able to continue as her adviser if she didnt respond. I can see that Miss W 
called the business and there is a note, dated 4 July 2017, where the advisor says he will 
call her. Miss W says the advisor returned her call and arranged a meeting, which he then 
cancelled, rearranged and cancelled again and left a message while she was on holiday 
saying he would call again to rearrange. She says she didnt hear anything further.
The business says the advisors recollections were that he left a message for Miss W to 
contact him. But it did say that its systems let it down and no further invites to reviews took 
place. It offered Miss W a refund of the fees it had taken since June 2017.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She felt the business wasnt responsible 
for the fall in the value of the pension and agreed that the refund of the fees was fair. She 
also suggested to the business that it should pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the lack of contact and advice. The business didnt accept that recommendation 
and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W says she has lost thousands of pounds from the value of her pension over the years. 
She indicates that this has been going on since before Tavistock Partners Limited became 
her IFA in 2010. 
As mentioned above, Miss Ws PPP was worth £20,092.27 on 1 October 2007, on 6 October 
2008 her PPP was worth £16,347.68 and by 6 July 2009 it was worth £14,240.56. So, the 
large fall in value she is concerned about appears to have happened before the business 
was her IFA. The value of the pension was slightly lower, according to the May 2019 
valuation, but seems to have been broadly stable since the business has been her IFA. It 
doesnt appear that any further contributions have been made into the pension by Miss W, 
so the value of her pension will depend on how the investment performs and the fees and 
charges taken from the pension. The business also mentioned to her in 2014 that she was 
invested in defensive stocks, which in general terms means they are invested to try and 
protect what she has, rather than to have the potential for high levels of growth.
So while she has complained about the declining value of her pension, I think the losses she 
is concerned with happened before Tavistock Partners Limited was her IFA. If she is 
concerned about the fall in value between 2007 and 2009; that is a matter she could take up 
with her previous firm of IFAs.
In September 2010 the business said it would contact Miss W once a year and offer her a 
financial review and provide a summary of the products she held with the business. While 
Miss W seems to have been dissatisfied with the business for some time, it does appear to 
have offered her reviews and been in contact with her until June/July 2017, after which 
contact stopped. The business has acknowledged that it was at fault for this and its systems 
didnt generate further invitations for reviews. It offered to give Miss W the fees it had taken 
since 2017. I think its right that if it wasnt providing a service but was still charging for it then 
it should refund these fees. 
But I also think this has caused Miss W some distress and inconvenience. Having had 
difficulty getting in contact with the business and having previously complained to it about 
these issues and having responded to the business letter of 30 June 2017, I think the onus 
was on the business to do more than leave a message for Miss W to call the business back. 
The reason for the contact in 2017 was that the business thought Miss W should move her 
investment as the business said it wouldnt be able to monitor the ongoing suitability of this 
investment anymore. Then for the business to stop generating review invites probably did cause Miss W to feel distressed and unsupported in her financial affairs. For those reasons, I 
think Miss W was caused distress and I think the business should pay her £200, in addition 
to the refund of fees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ws complaint. I order Tavistock Partners Limited to 
refund the fees taken since June 2017, amounting to £254.87. I also order it to pay £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience it has caused Miss W.
Tavistock Partners Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Miss W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest 
on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
If Tavistock Partners Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Greg Barham
Ombudsman