DRN-2449765
The complaint
Mr T complains that Scottish Widows Limited declined his critical illness claims. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and so Ill only refer to some 
key events here. 
In 2014 Mr T took out two Protection for Life policies with Scottish Widows that provide cover 
in the event he dies or suffers from a specified critical illness. The policies were set up on a 
decreasing basis to cover the outstanding amounts on his two mortgages. 
Mr T underwent open heart surgery on 4 September 2020 to close an atrial septal defect. A 
couple weeks after this, he contacted Scottish Widows to make critical illness claims under 
both policies. Scottish Widows however explained the procedure he underwent wasnt 
covered under the policies and so his claims wouldnt be paid. 
Mr T complained about Scottish Widows decision as he felt the procedure he underwent 
should be covered. He also pointed out that structural heart surgery is listed on Scottish 
Widows website as a covered critical illness. And that Scottish Widows ought to have told 
him of new critical illness policies they offered when released.
Scottish Widows didnt change their position. They said the policy provisions set out the 
terms and conditions relating to the benefits provided under Mr Ts policies. And any claim(s) 
Mr T makes are considered against these specific benefits. So, while they acknowledged the 
seriousness of Mr Ts diagnosis and surgery, Scottish Widows said it isnt a condition listed 
as being covered under his policies. Scottish Widows also clarified that the information 
available on their website relates to products available within their range, and so its purpose 
isnt for existing customers to check what their policy covers. Further, they confirmed they 
dont notify policyholders of new products  including critical illness cover  when theyre 
introduced. So, although the level of cover offered evolves over time, Mr T had the option of 
reviewing his policies if he felt they were no longer suitable. 
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked into it but he 
didnt think Scottish Widows had to do anything further. He said the policy terms, which Mr T 
wouldve received at the time of sale, sets out what critical illnesses are covered. And, 
unfortunately, the median sternotomy (surgery to divide the breastbone) which Mr T 
underwent in order to close the atrial septal defect, isnt listed as a specified critical illness. 
Because of this, our investigator thought Scottish Widows had fairly declined the claims. He 
added that policies like those Mr T has only cover a limited number of critical illnesses  no 
policy covers every eventuality or possible diagnosis. And insurers, like Scottish Widows, are 
entitled to amend their policies and the cover theyre willing to offer. 
Mr T disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Before I go on to explain my decision, I want to clarify that Im only considering whether 
Scottish Widows has fairly declined Mr Ts claims here based on the information available to 
them at the time. So, while Mr T has also raised concerns about the sale of the policies, they 
were sold by another firm which means Scottish Widows arent responsible for this. I 
understand Mr T is pursuing a separate complaint against that firm. I therefore wont be 
addressing those concerns in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to firstly reassure Mr T that I dont underestimate the severity of the surgery he 
underwent or the impact this has had on him. But what I must consider here is whether 
Scottish Widows has acted fairly when declining his claims. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr T but, for the reasons Ill explained, I think they have.
Insurance doesnt cover every eventuality. But rather, it covers specific events as defined 
within the policy terms. And Mr T agreed to the terms of his policies when he set them up in 
2014. Ive carefully reviewed the policy terms and although a median sternotomy is referred 
to, it is only covered as part of two specific illnesses. Those being:
to correct narrowing or blockage of one or more coronary arteries with by-
pass grafts.
to replace or repair one or more heart valves.
In Mr Ts case, his median sternotomy was required to close an atrial septal defect. And so, 
as Mr Ts procedure isnt listed in the policy as a specified critical illness, I dont think 
Scottish Widows has acted unfairly by declining the claims.
I understand Mr Ts dissatisfaction that the operation he underwent, which is a major 
procedure, isnt covered under his policies but wouldve been covered under newer policies 
that Scottish Widows subsequently offered. I understand Mr Ts grievance with the situation 
but I dont think this means Scottish Widows is required to pay the claims. Ill explain why.
Insurance, and the level of cover available, changes over time and varies between providers. 
Scottish Widows set out the cover (and thereby the level of risk) which they were prepared to 
offer Mr T in 2014 and he accepted it. Mr T was free to choose another provider if he felt the 
cover wasnt appropriate for his needs when he set the policy up, or at a later date. Scottish 
Widows however werent obligated to inform Mr T of new products that later became 
available. 
I dont doubt Mr T when he says he wanted the best cover. Ive also noted his concerns in 
respect of the cost of the policies against more comprehensive policies he says couldve 
obtained. But, Im satisfied Scottish Widows has acted fairly and in line with the terms of his 
policies when declining his claims. So, I dont think Scottish Widows has to do anything 
further here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman