DRN-3751139
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the advice Quilter Planning Solutions Limiteds appointed 
representative gave to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and 
believes this has caused a financial loss.
It was Quilters appointed representative, rather than Quilter itself, which gave Mrs P advice. 
But, as Quilter is responsible for the appointed representatives actions I will refer to it 
throughout this decision. 
Professional representatives have helped Mrs P to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Mrs Ps.
What happened
Mrs P was a deferred member of her former employers DB scheme. In 2004 the company 
was going into liquidation and was unable to cover its full pension liabilities. 
Mrs P was introduced to Quilter towards the end of 2004 with a view to discussing her 
pension options. She met with it twice, in December 2004 and January 2005. It gathered 
information about the benefits available to Mrs P under the DB scheme. That information 
showed that Mrs Ps DB fund had a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £13,360. And, 
assuming the scheme was 100% funded, she would be entitled to a full pension of £1,890 a 
year at the schemes retirement age of 62. But, the schemes administrators estimated that 
because the scheme was underfunded it would only pay between 75% to 85% of that 
amount. 
Quilter recorded that Mrs Ps attitude to risk was medium. It said the growth rate required 
(the critical yield) to match the benefits from the DB scheme was less than 5%.
Quilter recommended that Mrs P transfer her DB benefits to a named personal pension. 
Mrs P signed the forms to go ahead with the transfer on 12 January 2005. The following day, 
13 January 2005, Quilter wrote to Mrs P setting out the reasons for its recommendation. 
Amongst other things it said:
Mrs Ps DB scheme was underfunded and she would only receive between 75% and 
85% of her full pension entitlement. But that amount could be subject to further 
reductions.
Investing in a personal pension should see a growth rate that would exceed the 
benefits from the DB scheme.
By accepting Quilters recommendation Mrs P acknowledged she was giving up a 
level of guarantee from her DB scheme. But the reduction in benefits from that 
scheme wasnt known and was likely to increase. 
The death benefits from the personal pension were better than under the DB 
scheme.
The personal pension provider set up Mrs Ps pension plan from 21 January 2005.
Mrs P complained to Quilter in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice. Amongst 
other things she said:
Quilter didnt discuss the benefits Mrs P would be giving up by transferring.
It didnt provide a report or analysis and as such Mrs P wasnt in a position to make 
an informed decision.
The benefits from her personal pension were based on investment performance and 
didn't match her profile as a cautious investor.
She wasn't aware that she was giving up a guaranteed pension and still thought it 
was guaranteed. 
Quilter didnt explain the risks involved in investing in a personal pension.
It didnt act in line with the Regulators principles.
Quilter replied. It said it couldnt find any evidence that it had given advice to Mrs P.
Mrs P brought her complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She sent Quilter 
evidence that it had given Mrs P transfer advice. Quilter then acknowledged that it had given 
Mrs P advice to transfer her pension. But it said it thought she had brought her complaint 
outside of the allowable timescales for doing so. 
Our investigator provider her analysis of Mrs Ps complaint. First the investigator said she 
believed that Mrs P had brought her complaint in time as shed seen no evidence that Mrs P 
should have brought it sooner. Second the investigator looked into the merits of Mrs Ps 
complaint. Amongst other things our investigator said:
Quilter didnt obtain a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report or complete a full fact-
find. As such she said Quilter hadn't followed the Regulators guidance for making a 
personal recommendation. 
Quilter recorded Mrs Ps attitude to risk as medium and there was no information at 
the time to suggest that was incorrect. 
The projected growth rates at the time (known as the discount rate) and Mrs Ps 
medium attitude to risk indicated that there was a realistic prospect of Mrs P 
achieving higher benefits than from the DB scheme by transferring to a personal 
pension. 
The former employer was in liquidation and pension benefits would likely be reduced 
by 25%.
At that time the Government hadn't yet set up the Financial Assistance Scheme 
(FAS)1. And there was uncertainty about whether Mrs Ps DB scheme would join the 
FAS.
The DB scheme did enter the FAS in 2013 but Quilter couldn't have known that 
would happen at the time of its advice in 2005.
Overall, our investigator thought Quilters advice to transfer was suitable.
Mrs P didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
she said:
The Regulators guidance at the time was that advising firms should start by 
assuming that transferring from a DB scheme was unsuitable.
1 The FAS is a Government funded scheme which provides financial assistance to members of certain 
defined benefit pension schemes. Generally eligible members had lost all or part of their pension 
following their scheme winding up due to being underfunded, between 1 January 1997 and 
6 April 2005. FAS began operating in September 2005.Mrs Ps full benefits weren't transferred and as such she had benefits both in a 
personal pension and also from the FAS.
Quilter didnt advise Mrs P that her full benefits would not be transferred or what 
would happen with the remaining funds.
The former employer was discussing matters with FAS and Quilter should have 
deferred giving advice until the matter was clear.
Our investigator replied. She said, amongst other things:
Even if Quilter had done everything it should have done she believed Mrs P would 
have gone ahead with the transfer.
Quilter assessed Mrs Ps attitude to risk as medium and set that out in its letter 
recommending the transfer. Given Mrs Ps 25 plus years to retirement our 
investigator felt that the attitude to risk was likely to be correct.
Quilter wouldnt have been aware that additional benefits through the FAS would 
become available at a later date. She asked if Mrs P was able to provide evidence 
that only part of her benefits were transferred at the time. 
FAS didnt begin operating until September 2005 and the DB scheme didnt register 
with FAS until 2013. So, it seemed reasonable for the transfer to go ahead at the 
time of the advice rather than waiting for the situation with FAS to become clearer. 
Mrs P didn't agree with our investigator. Amongst other things she said:
Given Quilters failings in the advice process she wasnt given the opportunity to 
make an informed decision. She said that she was simply presented with a sign and 
transfer option.
Her full benefits weren't transferred and as such FAS are paying some DB pension 
benefits and our investigator didnt consider this.
It doesn't agree with Quilters crude growth rate. It said the personal pension 
illustration shows Quilters rates are entirely incorrect.
Quilters comments that the benefits from a personal pension could be higher is 
incorrect and misleading. 
While the DB scheme was in deficit and the company in difficulty transferring benefits 
wouldnt protect Mrs P from the effects of this. 
Mrs P said she would send us additional information about her FAS benefits. 
Mrs P didnt send us any further information about FAS benefits. But as she didnt agree with 
our investigators assessment of the complaint it was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs P has made a number of detailed points when bringing this complaint. I've considered 
everything shes said carefully. But in this decision I dont intend to address each and every 
point raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key issues at the heart of Mrs Ps 
complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Code of Business 
rulebook (COB). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Quilter's actions here.
At the time that Quilter advised Mrs P to transfer out of her DB scheme, in 2005, the 
regulators guidance, set out in its rulebook (COB - 5.3.29G) was that:
When advising a customer who is, or is eligible to be, an active member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme whether he should opt out or transfer, a firm should:
(a) start by assuming it will not be suitable, and
(b) only then consider it to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate on the evidence available 
at the time that it is in the customer's best interests.
Having considered all of the available evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons given by the investigator.
Was Quilters advice suitable?
Its evident from the file that Quilter met with Mrs P twice. And on the second occasion, on 
12 January 2005, Mrs P signed documents to apply to transfer her DB scheme funds to a 
personal pension. But Quilter hasnt kept the records I would have expected to see to show 
what it discussed with Mrs P and whether or not it met all its regulatory requirements.
Quilter did gather details from Mrs Ps DB scheme about her DB benefit entitlements. It also 
assessed that Mrs P had a medium attitude to risk. But, in addition, I would have expected it 
to gather details of Mrs Ps financial circumstances and to obtain a TVAS report. But theres 
no evidence it did that. I also would have expected Quilter to have compared the benefits 
available between the named personal pension and the DB scheme. Quilter did provide 
Mrs P with a projected income illustration from the named personal pension provider. But I 
can't see that it gave Mrs P a side-by-side comparison of the relevant benefits of both the 
DB scheme and the personal pension. In order to advise Mrs P clearly, I think it needed to 
do that. 
That said Ive seen that Quilter estimated that the critical yield required to match the benefits 
from the DB scheme was less than 5%. Given that it didnt obtain a full TVAS its not clear 
how it arrived at that figure. But, given the sums involved, and the fact that Mrs Ps DB 
benefits were thought to be reduced by around 25% because of the underfunding of the 
scheme, that critical yield figure seems reasonable. I note that Mrs P said she didnt agree 
with Quilters crude estimate. But she hasn't shown me any evidence that indicates the 
figure wasnt broadly accurate. So I think its estimated critical yield of 5% was reasonable.
Further, at the time that Quilter advised Mrs P the Regulator was publishing discount rates 
(that is likely investment growth rates) to enable advising firms to calculate loss assessments 
in an industry wide pensions review. And I consider those discount rates provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
Quilter gave its advice. Quilter estimated the critical yield required to match the occupational 
pension at retirement was around 5% a year. This compares with the discount rate of 7.8% a 
year for 25 years to retirement.For further comparison, the Regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle 
projection rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5%. I've taken this into account, along with 
the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mrs P's attitude to risk and also the term to 
retirement. I think Mrs P was likely to receive benefits of a higher overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement as a result of investing in line with her medium attitude to risk. And on 
the basis of the financial information available at the time, the transfer was likely to have 
seemed an attractive prospect to Mrs P. 
Ive noted Mrs Ps comments that the personal pension illustration showed that Quilters 
estimated growth rates were entirely incorrect. But I don't agree. Quilter estimated that the 
critical yield was around 5% and that Mrs Ps personal pension would grow at 7% a year. 
The personal pension illustration shows Mrs Ps expected yearly pension at age 62. It gives 
figures based on the Regulators low (5%), middle (7%) and high (9%) projected growth 
rates. Its worth noting that when showing those projected figures, the illustration doesn't 
give a single figure but instead gives the amounts in whats sometime referred to as slices 
(because of changing pension rules over time) based on Mrs Ps pension entitlement 
between certain years. So the projected yearly pension income is the amount when each of 
those slices is added together. Further the DB administrators said that Mrs Ps yearly 
pension income would be reduced from between 25% to 15% depending on the funding 
position of the scheme. That means her yearly pension from the DB scheme was expected 
to be somewhere between £1,417 and £1,606. The personal pension illustration shows that 
if her pension grew at 5% then it would pay her £1,624 a year. That sum supports Quilters 
estimate of a critical yield of around 5% to match the income from the DB scheme.
Further, the personal pension was expected to perform at the middle rate of 7% a year. And 
the illustration shows that, at that level, it would pay Mrs P a yearly pension of around 
£3,267. That sum is significantly more than her expected income from the DB scheme. So I 
don't think its fair to say that Quilters growth rate was entirely incorrect or misleading.
Its notable that Mrs P signed the forms applying for the transfer the day before Quilter sent 
her its letter setting out the reasons for its recommendation. So, as well as not gathering full 
information about Mrs Ps circumstances or obtaining a TVAS, its also apparent that Quilter 
was prepared to go ahead with its recommendation without setting out its reasons for that 
recommendation in writing. Its likely that Quilter would argue that it had already explained 
the reasons for its recommendation to Mrs P in person. But, transferring out of a DB scheme 
is a one-off event. Once transferred there's no going back, the benefits of the DB scheme 
are lost forever. So, I think Quilter should have ensured that Mrs P had had sight of all the 
relevant information in writing before proceeding and that includes the information in 
Quilters letter of 13 January 2005. But, while I think that Quilter certainly could have 
improved its advice process, I also think its likely that Mrs P would have gone ahead with 
the transfer anyway even if Quilters advice had been faultless.
Thats because, as I've said above, the company sponsoring the DB scheme was in 
liquidation. It couldnt afford the full liabilities of the DB scheme and the pension 
administrators had already told Mrs P that her pension entitlements would be reduced. 
Although at that point they couldnt say by exactly how much. So the DB scheme was facing 
a very uncertain future. 
At that time, the Government had passed primary legislation a year earlier to introduce the 
FAS. But the regulations setting out how that law would operate werent in place and 
wouldnt be so for a further eight months. And in those circumstances, where little was 
known about how the scheme would operate, there was no certainty that Mrs Ps DB 
scheme would be accepted into the FAS. In fact its notable that Mrs Ps DB scheme didnt 
successfully entre the FAS until 2013, some eight years later. So I dont think Quilter or Mrs P could reasonably have been expected to predict that the DB scheme would 
successfully enter into the FAS at some point in the distant future.
Further, the DB trustees had offered Mrs P a CETV of £13,360. And that sum was 
guaranteed. So, by transferring when she did and investing that money in an alternative 
pension plan, Mrs B was ensuring that she didnt lose the entirety of her pension fund, or 
that it wasn't further reduced because her former employer couldn't afford the DB schemes 
liabilities. 
Mrs Ps said that Quilter didnt arrange the transfer of the full value of her fund and she now 
has an entitlement from the FAS. She hasnt provided us with any more details of what that 
entitlement is, when it began or when she knew she would receive it. But I've seen nothing in 
the paperwork the DB scheme administrators provided that indicates they were offering 
anything other than the full value of the fund to Mrs P. So I dont think that Quilter would 
have known that Mrs P had any entitlement under the FAS. Thats especially the case as  
at that time  the FAS still wasnt operational. And, as I've said above, the DB scheme didnt 
enter into the FAS for another eight years. So I don't think Quilter did anything wrong in not 
realising that Mrs P might have an entitlement under the FAS at some point in the future. 
Summary
At the time Quilter gave Mrs P advice her DB scheme was in an uncertain and seemingly 
precarious position. The expected growth rate from a personal pension would most likely 
have indicated that Mrs P would be better off by transferring than remaining in her DB 
scheme. So I think Quilters advice to transfer out of the DB scheme was reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman