DRN-3282989
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund to her the payments that she 
made for two Covid test kits. Shes being helped with her complaint by a representative. 
What happened
Mrs C used her Barclays Bank debit card in August 2021 to make two payments of £144 for 
two Covid test kits. She didnt receive the kits so she had to make other arrangements for 
the test that she required. She disputed the payments with Barclays Bank and it credited the 
two payments to her account in September 2021. It sent her a letter in October 2021 in 
which it asked her to provide specified information about her dispute within seven days so 
that it could be raised with the merchant. 
Barclays Bank says that it didnt receive the requested information so it wrote to Mrs C later 
that month and said that it had been unable to recover the disputed funds and it re-debited 
the two payments from her account in November 2021. Mrs C says that she went into a 
branch in October 2021  within the seven day period - and a member of staff assisted her 
with sending an e-mail to Barclays Bank which included the requested information. The 
address to which the e-mail was sent was incorrect and Barclays Bank says that it didnt 
receive the information but it credited £144 to Mrs Cs account as a gesture of goodwill in 
November 2021. Mrs C wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that her complaint should be upheld. She said that the 
requested information wasnt received by Barclays Bank so the dispute was closed correctly. 
She was satisfied that the gesture of goodwill to offer a refund of £144 was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mrs Cs representative has asked, on her behalf, for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. She says that Mrs C went into a branch and a member of staff assisted her 
with sending an e-mail, including providing her with the e-mail address and sending the e-
mail for her. She says that the requested information was provided within the correct time 
frame and, whether it has been received or not, isnt Mrs Cs fault and the member of staff 
should have the correct e-mail address so the problem is not from Mrs Cs end.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
if a consumer disputes a card payment, the card issuer may be able to make a 
chargeback claim to the merchant under the relevant card scheme to try to settle the 
dispute;
theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made, but if the 
right to make a chargeback claim exists under the applicable scheme rules and if 
theres a reasonable prospect of success, I consider it to be good practice for a 
chargeback claim to be made; 
Mrs C disputed the two payments that shed made for the test kits so Barclays Bank 
credited the payments to her account and asked her to provide specified information 
about her dispute within seven days so that it could be raised with the merchant  it 
said: Please send the information weve asked for to the address at the top of this 
letter. Alternatively you can email us at [specified e-mail address];
Mrs C says that she went into a branch within the seven day period and a member of 
staff assisted her with sending an e-mail to Barclays Bank which included the 
requested information  and that the member of staff provided Mrs C with the e-mail 
address and sent the e-mail for her;
other than Mrs Cs recollection of events, theres no evidence to show what 
assistance the member of staff gave to her but the e-mail address had been provided 
in Barclays Banks letter to Mrs C so Im not persuaded that its likely that the 
member of staff gave the e-mail address to Mrs C;
there was an error in the e-mail address that was used and Barclays Bank says that 
it didnt receive the e-mail;
our investigator sent a test e-mail to the address that Mrs C had used and says that 
she received a bounce-back e-mail straight away to notify her that her e-mail had 
failed to be delivered and I consider it to be more likely than not that Mrs C would 
have received a similar reply to say that her e-mail hadnt been delivered;
as Barclays Bank hadnt received the requested information, I consider that it was fair 
and reasonable for it to close Mrs Cs dispute and to re-debit the two payments from 
her account - it wrote to Mrs C in October 2021 and said that it had been unable to 
recover the disputed funds and was unable to refund her account;
after Mrs C had complained to it, Barclays Bank credited £144 to her account as a 
gesture of goodwill;
Im not persuaded that Barclays Bank acted incorrectly in the way that it dealt with 
Mrs Cs disputed payments as I dont consider that it had the information that it 
reasonably required to make chargeback claims for those payments and I consider 
that its response to Mrs Cs complaint was fair and reasonable; and
I sympathise with Mrs C that she didnt receive the test kits that shed ordered and for 
the loss that shes suffered, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Barclays Bank to refund to her any of money that 
she paid for the test kits, to pay her any more compensation or to take any other 
action in response to her complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman