DRN-3097377
The complaint
Ms E complains about Harwood Claims Management Limited trading as Hidenda (HCML) 
and the settlement fees they have invoiced her for after she received a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) refund.
What happened
In August 2019, Ms E signed a Letter of Engagement instructing HCML to pursue a claim for 
mis-sold PPI. And in October 2019, Ms E signed two separate letters of authority (LOA) 
authorising HCML to submit two separate claims to lender S.
Both of these claims were successful and Ms E received a total PPI refund of £1,707.73 
after tax had been deducted. Lender S also made HCML aware of the refunds as they were 
acting as Ms Es representative in the claim. So, HCML invoiced Ms E for their settlement 
fee, based on the total PPI refund Ms E received. But Ms E was unhappy about this, so she 
raised a complaint.
Ms E didnt think HCML were entitled to their fee. She explained the refund had been paid to 
her by lender S, not HCML. And she explained in previous PPI claims, shed been made 
aware of the fee HCML would be due before she was paid the refund. So, she assumed any 
settlement fee had already been taken and had proceeded to spend the refund she received. 
Because of this, she was unable to afford to pay HCMLs invoices so she wanted these to be 
waived.
HCML responded and didnt agree. They thought theyd acted fairly when invoicing Ms E for 
their fee as the work theyd completed had led to the PPI refunds shed received. So, they 
maintained their view that the fee remained payable. Ms E remained unhappy with this 
response so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He was satisfied Ms E 
instructed HCML to pursue the claims on her behalf. And he was satisfied the work HCML 
completed had led to the PPI refunds Ms E received. So, he thought HCML acted fairly when 
invoicing Ms E for their settlement fee, in line with the terms of the agreement she entered 
into. So, he didnt think HCML needed to do anything more.
Ms E didnt agree. She explained HCML had secured previous PPI refunds on her behalf 
and shed been notified of the success of these claims before she received the refund. So, 
as Ms E hadnt received this notification on this occasion, shed assumed the refund had 
resulted from the work of a separate company and had proceeded to spend it. She thought 
HCML created this confusion and so, she maintained her belief that the fees should be 
waived. As Ms E didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms E. I appreciate Ms E 
assumed the money shed received had already been deducted any settlement fee she 
owed. So, she proceeded to spend the refund she received. Because of this, I can 
understand the worry and upset shed have felt when she received invoices from HCML and 
had no means of paying them and I appreciate why shed feel this was unfair.
But for me to say HCML should waive the outstanding invoices, Id need be satisfied of one 
of two things. Either, that HCML completed no work of value to the claims that were 
successful. Or, if they did, that theyve failed to act reasonably and in line with the terms of 
the agreement when invoicing Ms E for their fee. And in this situation, I dont think thats the 
case.
Its not disputed by Ms E that she instructed HCML to pursue claims for mis-sold PPI on her 
behalf. So, I dont intend to discuss this any further. Instead, Ive thought about the work 
HCML completed and whether I think this led to the refunds she received.
Ive seen the offer letters sent by lender S. These were sent to both Ms E and HCML. And in 
the cover letters sent to HCML, they refer to Ms E as HCMLs client. So, Im satisfied the 
initial claim lender S received was sent by HCML alongside the LOAs Ms E signed as lender 
S accepted HCML as Ms Es representative. And I think its reasonable for me to assume it 
was these claims submitted by HCML that led to the refunds Ms E received. So, I think 
HCML were able to invoice Ms E for their settlement fee, in line with the terms of the 
agreement she entered into.
And Ive seen the terms and conditions of this agreement. This agreement explains that 
HCML would charge Ms E 20%+VAT of any PPI refund she received. And Im satisfied the 
invoices sent to Ms E fall in line with this. So, Im unable to say HCML have acted unfairly 
when doing so.
But I recognise Ms Es main dispute relates to the confusion she felt surrounding the 
payment of her PPI refund and the time between her receiving this and when the invoices 
were issued by HCML.
While Ive seen no evidence to support Ms Es point that in previous claims, HCML made her 
aware of what their fee would be before she received the refund into her account, I dont 
doubt this may have happened. But I dont think this impacts my decision that HCML have 
acted fairly, and that the settlement fee remains payable.
This is because I think whether or not HCML spoke to Ms E before she received the refund 
into her account from lender, I think Ms E shouldve been reasonably aware shed instructed 
HCML to complete this work on her behalf. So, when she received a refund from lender S, at 
the very least Id have expected Ms E to contact HCML to ensure there was no fee she 
needed to pay as shes already agreed shed paid invoices for similar work previously.
Also, the terms and conditions of the agreement explains should the compensation be paid 
direct to the client, the client will immediately notify {HCML} before going on to explain 
HCML would then invoice a client for their fee. So, I think Ms E had a duty to ensure HCML 
was aware a refund had been paid.I understand Ms E says she assumed another company had made the payment into her 
account. And from the comments Ive seen, I think Ms E means she also assumed another 
company had completed the work necessary to secure this refund. But Ive seen no 
evidence to show Ms E instructed another company to complete this work. And the refunds 
Ms E received were paid within the twelve months after she instructed HCML so I think this 
was soon enough for Ms E to remember which company shed instructed.
So, because of the above, I think HCML have acted fairly and I dont think they need to do 
anything more.
But I do recognise there was a short period of time between lender S issuing their offer 
letter, Ms E receiving the refund and HCML issuing their invoice. While I still think Ms E 
should still have been aware a fee needed to be paid, I think this slight delay provided Ms E 
the opportunity to spend the refund she received. And because of this, she doesnt have the 
disposable income available to pay the outstanding fees in full. Id expect HCML to act 
positively and sympathetically towards Ms Es situation and work with her to agree a suitable 
and affordable repayment plan.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Es complaint about Harwood Claims 
Management Limited trading as Hidenda. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman