DRN-2652887
Complaint
Mrs M has complained about the overdraft Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) provided on 
her current account. Shes said the overdraft was unaffordable, she couldnt afford the 
charges added and so they caused her financial hardship.
Background
Mrs M complained to Barclays in 2019. Barclays didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Mrs M was 
dissatisfied at this response and asked us to look at her case.
Mrs Ms complaint was looked at by one of our investigators. She thought that Barclays 
didnt provide the overdraft unfairly, had fairly and reasonably responded to her change in 
circumstances and there wasnt enough to say it ought to have realised Mrs M might have 
been in financial difficulty earlier. So the investigator didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. Mrs M disagreed with the investigator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts Barclays charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at Barclays charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mrs M if it shouldnt have agreed to the overdraft in the first 
place, or it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mrs Ms account in circumstances 
where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mrs M was 
experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were instances where 
Barclays didnt treat Mrs M fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether it was unfair for Barclays to have offered the 
overdraft in the first place, or there were periods where Barclays continued charging Mrs M 
even though it knew she was in financial difficulty or it ought to have realised this was the 
case. 
As our investigator explained, Barclays has been unable to provide any information on the 
checks it carried out before initially agreeing to Mrs Ms overdraft. But given this initial 
decision to lend was made approaching 20 years ago, I find this to be neither surprising nor 
unreasonable. That said, Barclays was required to assess whether it felt Mrs M (and her 
then husband as it was a joint account) could repay an overdraft of £5,000.00.
Mrs M says that credit checks werent carried out at this stage. I dont know if they were. But, 
in any event, there wasnt a requirement for Barclays to carry out a credit check before 
lending. So I dont think that the lack of a credit check, in itself, means that Barclays failed to 
meet its obligations to Mrs M. In any event, Ive looked at Mrs Ms account ledgers at the 
time shes referred to get an indication whether Barclays could reasonably have felt that an 
overdraft of the amount given could be repaid. 
Having done so, I can see significant credits of many thousands of pounds going into the 
account. And there wasnt anything in the general expenditure going out of the account to 
suggest that it was unreasonable for Barclays to feel that an overdraft with a limit of £5,000 
was affordable. Im also mindful that this was a joint facility. And there were two sources of 
income going into the account too. So bearing in mind everything, I dont see why any further 
credit checks would reasonably have led Barclays to feel that the overdraft was unaffordable 
when it was being provided.
Mrs M has also said Barclays needed to review the account and the repayment record over 
the years to ensure that the overdraft remained sustainable. I agree with Mrs M on this. But I 
dont think this extended to the depth of forensic examination of all the products Mrs M held 
with Barclays, which Mrs M carried out. For example, I wouldnt consider it reasonable for a 
bank to default an overdraft over a couple of missed payments on a credit card the customer 
might have also held. 
Mrs M has also referred to a Barclayloan application being declined in 2009. But I dont think 
the fact Barclays agent said its not likely they could do anything meant Barclays ought to 
have realised that this overdraft was unsustainable. After all, during this application Barclays 
was merely assessing whether it felt Mrs M would be able to repay a loan of £14,000.00. I 
think the statement Mrs M has referred to was concerned with further actions in relation to a 
loan for that amount. And I dont think the fact that Barclays didnt feel she could repay a 
further £14,000.00 necessarily means that it ought to have realised the overdraft had already 
become unsustainable for her and therefore defaulted the account. 
Ive also thought about what Mrs M says happened in 2014. Mrs M says she repeatedly told 
Barclays that she couldnt afford the overdraft of £5,000.00 on a sole basis and that she ran 
into difficulties on her Barclaycard. From what I can see the joint bank account was receiving 
credits from another party right up until this point. So I dont think that Barclays ought 
reasonably to have realised that Mrs Ms husband wasnt able to contribute to the finances 
before Mrs M highlighted this being the case. 
Mrs M has also highlighted a discussion that she had with Barclays in June 2014 (which was 
shortly after it notified her of a change to its overdraft pricing structure) where she was 
offered the option of a restructure of the overdraft. The notes suggest that this was in the 
form of a resolve loan, but that this was refused because Mrs M was uncomfortable with 
losing the overdraft. Id add that I wouldnt consider it unreasonable for Barclays to have 
removed the overdraft once it had been cleared as part of any corrective action to clear the 
balance. And I dont agree that Barclays didnt attempt to help Mrs M reach an arrangement 
to be able to repay what she owed.
In any event, it appears as though Barclays did reduce Mrs Ms overdraft around the time the 
account went into her sole name. As far as I can see, Mrs Ms salary alone was enough to 
suggest that she would be able to sustainably repay an overdraft with a limit of £1,000.00 at 
this stage. Id also point out that this was before the Barclaycard difficulties Mrs M has 
referred to having.
So Im satisfied that Barclays, whether intentionally or not,  did appropriately react to when 
Mrs M said she was having difficulty with her overdraft within a reasonable period of time. And having looked at Mrs Ms account ledgers, I dont think it is the case that Barclays ought 
to have realised she may have been struggling earlier than this. The overdraft was being 
used regularly but the account received significant and regular credits from the joint parties. 
And while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Mrs Ms 
expenditure, the significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary 
transactions from the account, mean that I can fairly and reasonably say that Barclays ought 
to have realised Mrs M was experiencing financial difficulty.
As this is the case, I dont think Barclays did act unfairly towards Mrs M, or that it should 
refund the fees that it charged.
Ive also seen what Mrs M has said about the overdraft resulting her taking out other 
unaffordable credit. But each individual lender will have its own criteria for lending and will 
decide on the factors it will look at when deciding to apply for credit. So if Mrs M is unhappy 
with credit provided by other lenders because she feels it worsened her position, this is 
matter for those lenders. And Im not persuaded that this other lending means that Barclays 
acted unfairly in relation to the overdraft it provided.
So overall and having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs M as she obviously feels very strongly 
about the issues shes raised. But I hope shell understand the reasons for my decision and 
that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman