DRN-3029485
The complaint
Mr D complains TSB Bank plc provided him with some incorrect information.  As a result, he 
has suffered a financial loss and wants TSB to reimburse him.
What happened
Mr D contacted TSB in July 2018.  He explained he had made a payment for airline tickets to 
a company a few days earlier.  The payment had been shown as pending on his account but 
had now disappeared and Mr D wanted to know if the company could try to take the 
payment again.
The customer service adviser checked Mr Ds transactions and confirmed that the payment 
had been for just over £1000.  The adviser queried a transaction to another airline for just 
over £1500 but Mr D said that this was a genuine transaction which he had made himself an 
hour or so earlier.
Once transferred to the disputes team, Mr D was told that TSB couldnt cancel the payment 
as it wasnt showing on his account.  He was then told it looked like the payment had been 
approved and was then finally advised to cancel the card he had used and be issued with a 
new one.
Mr D did this in the hope that the payment wouldnt be attempted again  but unfortunately it 
was and was successful.
So, Mr D then complained to TSB and said he had made a duplicate booking for airline 
tickets based on the information provided to him.  He was now left with two sets of tickets 
which were non-refundable and wanted TSB to refund the second set at just over £1500.
TSB did not uphold his complaint.  It accepted it had provided incorrect information to Mr D.  
Simply cancelling his debit card was not going to ensure that the payment would be blocked.  
For this, it offered him £300.  But Mr D wasnt happy with that response and came to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt think they could ask TSB to do anymore either  so the matter was 
passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I arrive at the same outcome as the investigator and for very much the 
same reasons.  I also agree that authorisation is not in dispute here as Mr D admits to 
carrying out the transaction  so Ive focussed my decision on the narrow issue of whether 
TSB should be held liable for the payment for duplicate tickets.
The crux of Mr Ds complaint is that he incurred the cost of duplicate flights because he 
relied on the information provided to him by the customer service adviser when he first called 
to speak to TSB.  But I dont think that can be right  because we know from that 
conversation that Mr D had already purchased the second set of tickets.  Ive listened to the 
call and heard him say so.
Mr D says there was a call prior to this when he was told that the payment to the first 
company had been rejected and that based on this call, he had gone ahead and purchased 
further tickets.  He says the payment was taken out due to a system error on TSBs part.
TSB is unable to find an earlier call.  It says if Mr D can provide specific details regarding 
timings, etc, it will look again.  Mr D in unable to do that.
Ive thought about whether this alters my decision and I dont think it does.  Had there been 
an earlier call, I would have expected Mr D to have mentioned it in the call which we have 
been provided with  especially when the adviser tells him the payment had been approved.  
He doesnt do that.  So, I think Mr D may be mistaken about speaking to TSB earlier.
TSB did provide Mr D with some incorrect information during his call.  He was told the 
payment could be blocked by the cancelling of his card.  What he should have been told is 
that just because a payment is no longer showing as pending doesnt mean it wont debit the 
account.  
I think its fair that TSB compensates him for this and I think the £300 offered is a fair award -
and is probably somewhat higher than I would awarded had I been considering matters 
afresh.  I would therefore recommend Mr D accepts this as a fair and reasonable offer as I 
wont be asking that TSB does anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman