DRN-2271569
The complaint
Mr A complains that Advance Payment Solutions Ltd (trading as Cashplus) wont refund a 
disputed payment made from his account.
What happened
On the 26 December 2019 Mr A advises that he attempted to purchase flights using his 
CashPlus card. Mr A explains that he initially attempted to make a purchase of flights for 
£1,570 via a website Ill call B. Mr A explains that this transaction was rejected because he 
couldnt use his prepaid card  the information provided from CashPlus indicates that this 
was rejected due to incorrect postcode and address details being provided. And instead an 
agent advised theyd send him a link. Just over sixteen minutes later a further transaction of 
£1,622.91 was carried out using Mr As debit card  also for flights but to a different website, 
Ill call T. Mr A says that he didnt visit this site or authorise this payment. On attempting to 
make a transaction the next day his transaction was rejected due to insufficient balance  so 
he contacted CashPlus and on being advised of the disputed transaction explained he didnt 
carry it out. 
CashPlus looked into Mr As disputed transaction but in summary thought there wasnt 
sufficient evidence that the transaction was fraudulent. In particular they highlighted that 
Mr A transferred money into his account immediately prior to the disputed transaction. 
Mr A didnt accept CashPlus conclusion so referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr As complaint and thought it should be upheld. They thought 
that Mr As explanation was plausible and CashPlus hadnt provided sufficient evidence for 
him to be satisfied that Mr A most likely authorised the transaction. Mr A also highlighted 
financial difficulties as a result of the disputing transaction so he recommended CashPlus 
refund the disputed transaction plus 8% interest and £200 distress and inconvenience 
payment. 
CashPlus didnt agree and said:
-The amount Mr A put into his account prior to the transaction is suspicious.
-The transaction was authorised by 3D secure  meaning whoever carried out the 
transaction knew an 8 digit code set by Mr A.
-Theres no point of compromise. 
-The transaction doesnt fall outside Mr As usual pattern of spending.
Our investigator contacted Mr A for more details about his living situation and whether 
anyone had access to his card. Mr A explained that he lives with his wife and son and he 
doesnt think anyone else has access to his card. He also advises he didnt receive a code to 
his device. 
As CashPlus didnt agree its been passed to me to decide.
 
On reviewing the case I came to a different conclusion to our investigator. I wrote to 
CashPlus and Mr A and asked them for further comments. Mr A didnt accept my Provisional 
Decision and in summary said:
-You dont always need to enter 3D secure when completing a transaction via 
CashPlus. He also provided evidence of not being asked to pass 3D secure when 
carrying out a transaction. 
-3D secure doesnt involve a text message being sent to his phone.
-The flights werent booked in his name  and he provided evidence from T that this is 
the case. 
-Two days after this transaction a second fraudulent transaction occurred, which 
CashPlus refunded. So if this was the case, why didnt they refund him for the 
transaction to T? 
After Mr A supplied evidence of the flight tickets, I attempted to make further contact with T 
to ask whether they had evidence the tickets had been purchased fraudulently. But, 
unfortunately I didnt receive a reply. Ive decided to proceed and issue my Final Decision on 
the information available to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive not changed the outcome from my Provisional Decision. And Ill explain why 
below. 
In my Provisional Decision I said:
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr As genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable CashPlus to hold him liable. So I also need to think about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr A consented to the transaction 
being made.
 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for CashPlus to conclude that Mr A 
authorised the transaction. This is because:
-Mr As explained that he lives with his wife and his son and neither have access to 
his card. I think its plausible for someone known to Mr A to obtain his long card 
number and the three digit CVC code to complete the transaction. But, Ive seen 
evidence from CashPlus that 3D secure was carried out  this involves a code which 
Mr A has previously created and was entered to authorise the transaction. Ive not 
seen a plausible explanation for how this was known by a fraudster. 
-I find the transaction carried out by the alleged fraudster to be unusual  especially 
considering Mr A was searching for flights immediately prior to the transaction. I think 
its also unusual that a fraudster didnt use all of the available funds in the account, if 
theyd been successful carrying out this transaction. Immediately after the disputed 
transaction just under £200 remained in the account. 
-Mr As explained he was carrying out a search for flights  and attempted to 
purchase one immediately prior to the disputed transaction. It seems surprising that 
the fraudster attempted to carry out exactly the same time of transaction, namely airline tickets, just after Mr As attempted transaction. And also successfully 
completed one for a very similar amount of money.
-Mr As confirmed he didnt visit Ts website  meaning its not possible for his details 
to have been obtained by the merchant in this way. Ive also not found any 
information to suggest that other customers have complained T have been taking 
payments they havent authorised either by visiting Ts or other associated websites. 
Mr A made a number of points in replying to my Provisional Decision. These include that 3D 
secure isnt always required when carrying out online transfers  and text messages werent 
sent to customers mobile phones at the time to pass 3D secure. Ive thought about Mr As 
points here and I accept that its possible for 3D secure to be bypassed  however the 
evidence CashPlus have supplied shows 3D secure was required in this case. So I think its 
more likely than not this was the case. I agree with Mr As second point  and thats what 
Ive already outlined above  instead each customer creates an 8 digit code. This needs to 
be entered when processing a transaction requiring 3D secure authorisation.
 
Mr As also raised that CashPlus refunded him for a second fraudulent transaction which 
occurred two days later. I can see this might be confusing to him  but its my role to 
determine if CashPlus have acted fairly in refusing to refund this transaction, and Im 
satisfied they have. 
Ive also considered the evidence Mr A supplied, showing the flight tickets werent booked in 
his name  and I accept this is the case. I realise this will be disappointing to Mr A, but this 
doesnt change my outcome on the matter. I say this because even though the flights were 
in a different name this doesnt show Mr A didnt authorise the disputed transaction. And for 
the reasons Ive outlined above, I think on balance its more likely than not he authorised the 
disputed transaction. And CashPlus are therefore entitled to hold him liable.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman