DRN-4146069
The complaint
Miss C has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) disposed of items without her 
agreement while it was dealing with a claim under her home insurance policy.
References to UKI include contractors and companies acting on its behalf.
What happened
Miss C had a fire in her home. So, she contacted UKI to make a claim. UKI dealt with the 
claim, including restoring or disposing of some items and moving others to storage. When 
items were returned to Miss C she noticed damage to a TV and wedding dress. A jewellery 
box also hadnt been returned.
UKI said it wasnt responsible for the damage to the TV or the wedding dress. It also said 
Miss Cs partner had told a contractor to dispose of the jewellery box while the property was 
being cleared. However, it offered £100 compensation for communication issues during the 
claim.
So, Miss C complained to this service. Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said he 
thought it was more likely than not that the jewellery box had been disposed of without Miss 
Cs agreement. However, he didnt think UKI was responsible for the damage to the wedding 
dress or the TV. He said UKI should pay Miss C £12,804 plus interest for the jewellery that 
was disposed of and £400 compensation. 
As UKI didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 25 April 2023. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Miss C complained that UKI damaged a wedding dress that was cleaned as part of the 
claim. UKI provided a report that showed photos of the dress before it was cleaned and 
when it later assessed the dress for the reported damage. This highlighted an issue with the 
stitching that was visible before the dress was cleaned. The report also described how the 
dress was cleaned to protect it from further damage. It didnt find evidence that the damage 
Miss C later found was the result of the cleaning process. So, UKI didnt agree that it was 
responsible for the damage. In the circumstances, I think that was reasonable.
When Miss Cs TV was returned, she found a line down one side of the TV screen. UKI 
assessed the TV and didnt find any physical damage. Although it could see a darker area 
on the screen, it didnt find evidence of smoke or liquid damage. It concluded that the 
damage was the result of wear and tear, which it wasnt responsible for. I think it was 
reasonable for UKI to rely on the assessment and for it not to do anything further in relation 
to the TV.
Miss C also said UKI disposed of a jewellery box without her consent. She said it contained 
valuable items, some of which also had sentimental value to her. UKI said Miss Cs partner 
had told the contractor the jewellery box could be disposed of as it was only worth about 
£30. Miss C has said her partner didnt say the jewellery box could be disposed of. Miss C 
said she and her partner werent asked about the jewellery box and that, despite the 
contractor saying they were passed the box to check, this wasnt correct.
As I have two very different accounts of what happened, Ive looked at what other evidence 
is available to me in order to make a fair and reasonable decision. I asked UKI for 
information on its normal procedure for disposing of items. It said items should be listed 
where practicable, but sometimes items were bulked together as books, albums, costume 
jewellery as it could be too time consuming. It also said items should be photographed or 
videoed and that, where possible, signatures should be sought. It also explained that no 
value had been listed for the jewellery box entry in the spreadsheet that listed the items 
beyond economic repair because the value wasnt known at that point, as this would 
normally be confirmed through its jewellery specialist.
When UKI investigated the complaint, it looked at what happened, and noted that it thought it 
was unusual to dispose of jewellery because there was always a chance it held sentimental 
value. It also identified that the contractor hadnt got it in writing that Miss C or her partner 
had agreed to the items being disposed of, which was because it wasnt the contractors 
usual procedure to do so. 
In this instance, the contents of the jewellery box was listed as costume jewellery, with no 
detail given of any of the individual items, although a photograph was taken of it. Neither 
Miss C or her partner were asked to sign the list of items to be disposed of because the 
contractor didnt normally do this. This went against what UKI said it would expect, which 
was that signatures should be sought where possible. If, as UKIs contractor said, Miss C or 
her partner were present and said the jewellery box could be disposed of then it would also 
follow that they could have signed a form to confirm that they agreed to this, in line with the 
normal procedure. 
Im aware the contractor seemed strongly to state that he had consent to dispose of the 
items. However, from what Ive seen, he didnt follow the normal expected procedure to 
show this and so cant evidence that he had Miss C or her partners agreement. I also think 
UKI not entering a value for the contents of the jewellery box because a specialist would 
normally assess it, along with its own investigation raising that it seemed unusual to dispose 
of jewellery, if only because of the potential sentimental value of it, shows the normal 
process for jewellery hadnt been followed.
So, I currently think UKI needs to provide a settlement for the contents of the jewellery box 
because the contractor disposed of it without consent. Im aware UKI has said Miss C should 
be required to provide proof of ownership of the items. However, I dont agree. Miss C 
described how she came to own the items, which included inheriting some items when she 
was a teenager. She also said she didnt normally wear most of the jewellery, some of which 
she was keeping to pass on to her daughter at some stage. So, Im persuaded Miss C had 
genuine reasons why she didnt have proof that she owned the items in the box.
In addition, it was UKI who disposed of the jewellery and it had the opportunity to list it in 
detail or to take more detailed photos of what was in the box before it did so. Based on the 
photos, UKI and its jewellery service seemed to decide that at least some of the items 
appeared to be in the box. But, as there were a lot of items in there on top of each other, it 
wasnt possible to confirm whether each item Miss C said was in the box was there. But 
given, the circumstances Miss C described about the items she owned, that UKI seemed to 
think that at least some of the items could be seen in the box and that UKI didnt seem to 
follow its normal procedure for dealing with jewellery, Im more persuaded that the items 
Miss C said were in the box were there. Miss C provided UKI with a jewellers valuation for 
the items based on her description of them. In the circumstances, I think that is the most reliable way to value the items. So, I think UKI should pay Miss C that as a settlement 
amount, which is £12,804.00. It should also pay interest on that amount as Miss C lost use 
of the money.
Im aware that UKI has also said that if it has to pay a settlement for the jewellery that this 
would take it over the policy limit for the claim. However, given the settlement is being paid 
because UKIs contractor disposed of the items and not as a direct consequence of the 
claim, in my view, this is for UKI to deal with internally and not something that should affect 
the settlement paid to Miss C.
Ive also thought about compensation. Im aware that some of the items were of great 
sentimental value to Miss C. At one point, Miss C was also told by UKI that it had the 
jewellery box and it could be returned to her. However, UKI then told Miss C that this was 
incorrect and it had been disposed of. So, I think Miss C has been caused considerable 
distress and inconvenience by what happened. As a result, I currently think UKI should pay 
Miss C £400 compensation because of the impact on her.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 23 May 2022. Both parties replied before that date.
Miss C replied to my decision and said UKI had given her the list of items beyond economic 
repair, which was 284 items. She then needed to go through it and return it to UKI. The 
jewellery box had no monetary value listed for it and Miss C had marked it with a star to 
show she wanted it returned as it was of sentimental value.
UKI replied to my decision and said it thought I was taking its usual practice around 
signatures of consent a little out of context. On larger jobs, especially with lofts, it was 
impossible to take the level of detail and capture consent per item. This would be incredibly 
costly, ultimately impacting premiums, and massively time consuming for the customer.
UKI said Miss C and her partner were aware the attic space was being cleared and yet didnt 
approach the contractor to flag such precious items. They were in the property but didnt 
mention it. This seemed more in keeping with the care taken around costume jewellery than 
valuable items.
UKI also said it thought I was missing its concerns around the sum insured. It wasnt about 
whether the loss should or shouldnt be part of the claim but whether it was costume 
jewellery. The original claim exhausted the sum insured and if the jewellery was as claimed 
for, Miss C was 24% underinsured. So, it was either costume jewellery and the customer 
was adequately insured or the customer was substantially underinsured by at least 24%.
UKI said Miss C had made other excessive claims for unrelated damage for the wedding 
dress and TV where it had been proven to my satisfaction these werent claim related, so it 
seemed strange that this had impacted the credibility of Miss C to this service, where there 
was no proof of the value of the items. I should note that by context, I assume UKI had 
meant to say it was strange this didnt affect the credibility.
UKI said if it was to accept this as an underinsurance issue, this might affect the remainder 
of the claim. It had settled the contents claim in full in terms of the sum insured on the basis 
that the cover was broadly sufficient. However, if my decision was stating categorically that 
there was a further £12,000 of items in the home, it questioned whether this gave it the right 
to look at the impact of the underinsurance. The underinsurance was at least 24%, or 
probably higher. If it had been aware of this underinsurance at an earlier stage, this might 
have affected how it settled the claim.UKI didnt accept that it had been handled out of process in terms of what was practical on 
a large loss claim. It couldnt deal with the loss of the contents of the jewellery box as 
accidental loss under a separate claim, as Miss C only had basic cover. Miss C hadnt 
purchased Accidental Damage cover.
UKI said the fact was that Miss C, knowing she had all the sentimental jewellery, was 
underinsured so it would be unable to indemnify her beyond the policy cover she had 
selected.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my provisional decision. 
As part of that Ive considered all the comments provided. I didnt suggest UKI should have 
captured consent per individual item. I made my provisional decision based on a range of 
information and evidence and considered it in a wider context, including what UKI 
considered to be normal practice and that it had also noted that the contractor didnt get it in 
writing that items could be disposed of. UKI still hasnt provided evidence that persuades me 
it had consent to dispose of the jewellery box.
I was also aware that I had said UKIs assessment about the wedding dress and TV was 
reasonable. UKI hasnt previously raised concerns about Miss C reporting damage to those 
items and I dont think its fair for it to do so now. I also looked at this complaint in the full 
context of what happened before I made my decision. 
UKI has also raised concerns about underinsurance. I was aware of this when I made my 
decision and that it would take the claim over the contents sum insured. To be clear, I didnt 
state categorically that there was £12,000 of jewellery. I made my decision on the balance 
of probabilities having weighed up the evidence available to me. Im also not persuaded that 
it makes a difference whether Miss C had Accidental Damage cover. The issue with the 
jewellery is related to the actions of UKIs contractor, rather than because it formed part of 
the claim. If there is damage or a loss as a result of the insurers contractor actions, I 
wouldnt normally expect that to become a new claim under the policyholders policy. Its 
something the insurer needs to resolve itself, which is what Ive said here. UKI has also said 
that had it realised about the underinsurance earlier that it might have settled the claim 
differently. However, it didnt, so I dont think it is fair for it to do so now.
Following my provisional decision, I have again looked at what happened and I remain of the 
view that UKI needs to provide settlement for the jewellery box and at the amount Miss C 
gave as the value in order to bring this complaint to a close.
Putting things right
UKI should pay Miss C £12,804 for the jewellery and pay interest on that amount. It should 
also pay £400 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Miss C £12,804 as payment for the jewellery that it disposed of.Pay 8% simple interest on that amount from the date on which Miss C first made the 
claim to the date on which the payment is made.
Pay Miss C £400 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman