DRN-3062023
The complaint
Mr B complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to send him postal 
statements for his bank accounts and credit card.
What happened
Mr B says after noticing he wasnt receiving his postal bank and credit card statements, he 
visited his branch in September 2019 to discuss this. Mr B says despite being told by Halifax 
the issue had been corrected, the same problem resurfaced in early 2021. Mr B says Halifax 
told him the reason for him not receiving postal statements was because he had opted for 
paperless statements online. Mr B disagrees that he was responsible for this and believes 
the problem was caused by Halifax. 
Halifax say on both occasions Mr B had opted for paperless statements on his various 
accounts with them. On his first complaint Halifax as a gesture of goodwill to cover 
expenses, paid Mr B £5. Halifax says the matter has now been rectified and postal 
statements are now being provided for Mr B. 
Mr B wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says from the information provided to him, Mr B had initiated the change to 
paperless statements. The investigator says that while Mr B hadnt been receiving his bank 
statements when this was rectified from his initial complaint, he couldnt see that Halifax 
were at fault if the mail hadnt been delivered for whatever reason. The investigator was 
happy with the actions Halifax had taken now to ensure the statements for Mr Bs various 
accounts were now being sent by post as he wished. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would be frustrating and upsetting for Mr B not to receive his bank and 
credit card account statements by his preferred postal method. When looking at this 
complaint I will consider if Halifax were responsible for Mr B not receiving postal statements 
for his accounts with them. 
Mr Bs issues relate to two separate complaints with Halifax, over the same problem that his 
credit card and bank account statements, that had been previously sent by post had stopped 
being sent, both in 2019 and 2021.
Mr B says in 2019 he visited his branch but wasnt given a full and clear explanation why his 
statements stopped being sent to him only that he had opted for a paperless/ online version. 
Even then he hadnt received some of the statements in the post after Halifax said they had 
corrected the problem.
Mr B says during the time he lodged his complaint with us in February 2020, the same issue  
recurred, and he was told by Halifax this was due to him logging online and changing his 
statement preferences to paperless. Mr B argues he wouldnt know how to do this and if that 
was true, he still wasnt able to view his credit card account statement online.  
I understand the points Mr B makes here, and his obvious frustration over this, but when 
coming to a full and impartial decision, I rely on information provided by both parties and 
thats what I have done here. 
While Mr B says there were occasions following his initial complaint to Halifax in 2019, he 
didnt receive postal statements even after this was corrected, from the information provided 
to this service, it does show statements were sent to his correct address and while its 
possible some were not received, I cant hold Halifax responsible for that as they are reliant 
on the postal system here. Having said that, Mr B did then receive postal statements up until 
his second complaint in early 2021.
Mr B disagrees, that Halifaxs explanation for the second occasion his postal statements 
stopped being sent to him, was because he initiated this by opting out of paper statements, 
online in December 2020. Mr B has made it clear to this service he wouldnt know how to do 
this and secondly if he had, how was it he couldnt access his credit card statement online. 
While I understand Mr B feels strongly about this, from the information provided to this 
service by Halifax, screenshots suggest Mr B had logged on to a computer, and changed his 
statement preferences, even if he thought he hadnt. The investigator has explained to Mr B 
the reasons why he couldnt view his credit card statement as these are provided in a 
separate PDF document in the online system not in the inbox he may have viewed. I can 
understand that may have been a little unclear to Mr B at that time, but thats not to say it 
wasnt there for him to view. 
So, on balance Im satisfied Halifax werent responsible for changing the statement 
preferences here, even if Mr B may not agree. I am pleased to note, from the information I 
have seen, Mr B is now receiving postal statements as he wanted. 
While I can see there have been a number of telephone calls and attempted calls with Mr B 
by Halifax, there is nothing to suggest that Halifax werent trying to resolve the matter here. 
Although Mr B feels he has been inconvenienced, I cant say that is a direct result of any 
errors Halifax have made, and it follows I dont feel any compensation is warranted. 
While Mr B will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Halifax. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman