DRN-3637022
The complaint
Miss L is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wont refund her payments she made as a result of a 
fraud.
What happened
Miss L was looking to rent accommodation. After posting her requirements via a social 
media platform, she was contacted by a person claiming to be an agent who put her in 
contact with a suitable landlord. Unbeknown to Miss L at the time, she was in fact dealing 
with a fraudster.
Once Miss L was happy with the property, she agreed to pay the deposit and advance on 
rent requested. Miss L was instructed to make three payments of £600, which she carried 
out using her Revolut account over the course of three days. 
After Miss L had made the payments, she attended the property where she uncovered it 
wasnt for rent and that shed been defrauded.
Miss L complained to Revolut about transactions. Revolut looked into Miss Ls complaint but 
didnt uphold it. It pointed out that Miss L had authorised the payments and it executed them 
in line with her instructions. It further pointed out that Miss L was provided visual warnings 
prior to processing the payments and that itd contacted the beneficiary bank to ask for the 
payments to be returned. It therefore felt that no error had been made.
Miss L was unhappy with Revoluts response, so she brought her complaint to our service to 
look into again. An Investigator considered the evidence provided by both parties but didnt 
think Revolut had made an error in its actions. In summary, they felt that the payments 
werent of sufficient value to warrant concern from Revolut or cause it to intervene in them. 
They also found that even had Revolut informed the beneficiary bank sooner regarding the 
fraudulent payments, they were debited from the accounts prior to Revolut being put on 
notice about the fraud.
Miss L disagreed with the Investigators assessment and asked that the matter be referred to 
an Ombudsman. She pointed out that the transactions were unusual for her account as 
shed never made similar payments before. 
As Miss L disagreed with the Investigators assessment, the matter has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by both parties in this case that Miss L authorised the transactions in dispute. 
And in broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process 
payments that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
However, firms are also expected to be on the lookout for unusual or out of character 
payments on a customers account that could indicate theyre at risk of financial harm. This 
can be a difficult balance to strike when weighing this against the firms obligation to follow 
the instruction of its customer and not unnecessarily obstruct payments that are intended for 
legitimate purposes.  
Taking these points into account, I must first consider if Revolut should have done more to 
identify these payments as a potential risk and therefore have done more to prevent Miss L 
falling victim to a fraud. Having done so, Im not persuaded it should have.
While I have no doubt that the combined value of this fraud is significant to Miss L, the £600 
payments made werent significant enough for the bank to have reasonably intervened in 
them. Banks process a large number of transactions every day. And its also reasonable to 
assume that a customer may occasionally make higher value payments on their account for 
items or services, such as a rental deposit. Stopping all payments of these values where no 
other risk factors are identified would significantly impact the operation of a firm and likely 
cause unnecessary delay in large numbers of its customers legitimate payments. 
Ive also looked at Miss Ls account history and am not persuaded that the payments did 
present any other significant risk factors that may have alerted the bank to a concern. Miss L 
had made prior payment of similar values, and the payments made to the fraudster didnt 
clear the balance of her account. They were also made to a UK based account and to the 
same beneficiary. 
Considering these factors, Im not persuaded that Revolut should have identified these 
payments as a concern. And it would therefore be unreasonable to expect it to reimburse the 
funds Miss L lost.
Ive also considered it Revoluts actions, after being put on notice that Miss L had been 
defrauded, contributed to her loss.
Firms are expected to take reasonable steps to recover funds it has been informed have 
been sent as a result of fraud. Revolut did contacted the beneficiary bank in this complaint  
albeit five days after Miss L reported the scam. However, having contacted the beneficiary 
bank, our service has established that the funds that were paid into the account were 
withdrawn prior to Miss L putting Revolut on notice regarding her circumstances. Therefore, 
even had Revolut contacted the beneficiary bank sooner, it would have had no material 
impact on her loss as the funds were no longer in the account to recover.
While I realise this may come as a disappointment to Miss L, and I empathise with the loss 
she has suffered, I dont find that Revolut has made an error in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman