DRN-4437111
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Hastings Insurance Services Limited (HISL) dealt with 
the cancellation of his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr S bought a car insurance policy through an administrator HISL in May 2023. 
In July 2023 Hastings arranged for the policy to be cancelled due to not receiving adequate 
driving data. This was a condition of the policy whereby Mr S was to set up an app and a 
device to his car. 
Mr S complained about Hastings decision. He said he told Hastings he seldom drove his car 
and so this was a reason why there was no driving data. But Hastings refused to reinstate 
the policy. Mr S wanted an apology from Hastings, for it to remove the record of a 
cancellation by an insurer, and to pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Hastings apologised to Mr S as it said it could and should have held a discussion around the 
suitability of the policy when Mr S called on 4 July 2023 - before the policy was cancelled by 
Hastings. So it agreed to waive its fees on cancellation and paid a credit of £40 to Mr S. But 
it said it had fairly cancelled the policy. 
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator asked Hastings to provide a 
recording of the key call in July 2023 to better understand what was discussed. 
Hastings didnt provide a recording of the call. So in its absence, the Investigator 
recommended Hastings remove any record of a cancellation by an insurer. Given Hastings 
comments that it should have discussed the suitability of the policy - and given what Mr S 
told us and Hastings that he seldom drove his car - she thought it unfair for Hastings to 
record a cancellation ,as it seems on balance it should have given Mr S the opportunity to 
cancel the policy before it did, as it was unsuitable. 
The Investigator recommended Hastings pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its decision.  
Mr S accepted the Investigators findings. Hastings didnt agree. It says it offered a service 
on a non advisory basis and so it doesnt agree it should engage in such discussions with 
customers. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree that the service HISL provides is not an advisory one. And I can see from the 
information provided that it followed its cancellation process in line with the policy. 
However, Hastings hasnt provided a recording of the key call despite our requests. So I 
agree with the Investigators recommendations and Im upholding this complaint. This is 
because Hastings upheld Mr Ss complaint in part as it said when he called on 4 July 2023 - 
before it cancelled the policy - it should have discussed in more depth the suitability of the 
policy. So Hastings said it had done something wrong. 
Without the recording of the call, from the remaining information available, I think Mr S 
should have been given the opportunity to cancel the policy before Hastings did. This is 
because the consequences of having a cancellation by an insurer can be significant for a 
customer. I dont have enough information from Hastings to safely conclude that a 
cancellation by them was inevitable - as it seems to acknowledge that the key call on 4 July 
2023 should have been handled better. Hastings told us;
With regards to our decision to uphold the complaint, this was based on our 
complaint handlers opinion that we shouldve held a conversation with Mr S 
regarding whether or not the policy was suited to them.
So Im upholding this complaint as I dont think Hastings has shown it acted in a fair way 
when Mr S called it on 4 July 2023 - this being the same day Hastings issued notice of 
cancellation to Mr S. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited to do the following:
- Remove any record of a cancellation by an insurer against Mr S for this policy. 
- Pay Mr S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Mr S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman