DRN-2073452
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the settlement amount Aviva Insurance Limited has offered him under 
his car insurance policy after his car was written off.
What happened
Mr Ks car was involved in an accident in September 2019 and he claimed under his car 
insurance policy with Aviva.
Aviva said it wasnt economic to repair Mr Ks car. It offered him £8,000 (minus his excess) 
to settle his claim. Mr K didnt think this was enough. Hed spent over £35,000 over the years 
repairing and maintaining the car. He wanted Aviva either to repair his car or to give him 
what he called a more realistic valuation.
When Mr K complained to Aviva, it didnt uphold his complaint. So Mr K brought his 
complaint to us. The investigator who looked at Mr Ks complaint also didnt uphold it. She 
thought Avivas valuation was fair and reasonable. She also thought Aviva had acted within 
the terms and conditions of Mr Ks policy in writing the car off rather than repairing his car.
Mr K disagrees and so his complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
but I hope the reasons Im about to give will help him to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
My starting point is Mr Ks car insurance policy. This says Aviva wont pay Mr K more than 
the market value of his car at the time of the loss (less his excess). The policy goes on to 
say market value means the cost of replacing Mr Bs car with another of the same make, 
model, specification and condition.
I should say my role here isnt to place a value on Mr Ks car. Instead, its to decide if Avivas 
settlement offer is within a fair and reasonable range. We think the fairest way for an insurer 
to decide the market value for a car is to look at the main motor industry guides (Glasss, 
CAP, Cazana and, on occasion, Parkers). We think these are persuasive because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and likely sales figures. The guides dont have 
access to actual retail selling prices but use advertised prices and auction prices to work out 
what likely selling prices wouldve been.  
From the case file Aviva has sent us, I can see Aviva wrote to Mr K saying that, once an 
engineer had valued Mr Ks car and he disagreed with the value, the matter was referred to 
its senior technical engineer for a final review and decision. It says this engineer said:
 
we have taken into consideration the mileage adjusted figures published by Glass's Guide, 
CAP and Parker's Guide, we have then researched the market place looking for similar 
vehicles to confirm the guide figures are a realistic representation of the market.
The senior technical engineer concluded there was no justification for an increase in the 
valuation beyond the £8,000 Aviva had already offered.
Our investigator also got valuations from Glasss and CAP, as well as another of the guides 
called Cazana (it seems Aviva didnt get a valuation from Cazana). Our investigator didnt 
get a valuation from Parkers because historical valuations arent available from it online for 
claims older than three months. The mileage-adjusted valuations she got were: Glasss: 
£2,620, CAP: £3,671 and Cazana: £7,690. Theres quite a variation in these valuations. But 
Avivas valuation was higher than any of them.
Establishing the pre-accident replacement cost of a car isnt an exact science. Its usually 
possible to find adverts for cars for sale at a much higher figure than someone would 
actually have to pay if they shopped around. And Ive seen the adverts Mr K sent Aviva for 
similar cars advertised at much higher figures. But we find advertised prices are generally 
less reliable than the trade guides. They vary widely (even more widely than the trade guides 
in this case) and tend to have a margin built in for negotiating the price down.
I understand Mr K has spent significant amounts of money over the years to repair and 
maintain his car. But this sort of work often doesnt increase the resale value of the car later 
on. In Mr Ks case, I dont think it wouldve increased the value of his car beyond the 
valuations given by the guides several years later when the car was written off.
So, based on our research, and looking at what Aviva has done, Im satisfied the settlement 
amount of £8,000 that Aviva has offered and paid Mr K (minus his excess but including 
some interest because there was a delay in offering him a settlement) is fair and reasonable. 
I think it takes into account the specification of Mr Ks car and is in line with the terms of his 
car insurance policy. 
Mr K has also said he thinks Aviva shouldve repaired his car, rather than written it off. 
Again, my starting point on this is Mr Ks car insurance policy. This says that if his car is 
damaged, Aviva will either repair it, replace it or pay a cash amount equal to the loss or 
damage. And it says Aviva has full discretion in how it settles any claim. 
So it was for Aviva to decide if Mr Ks car was or wasnt economic to repair. But it needed to 
make that decision fairly and reasonably. Aviva says the cost of repair work wouldve 
exceeded the value of the car. And Mr Ks own quote for the repair work (which was more 
than £13,000) is significantly more than the value Aviva gave the car  and, as Ive said, I 
think that value was fair. So I think Aviva has acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the 
terms of Mr Ks car insurance in deciding to write the car off rather than repair it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman