DRN-2348835
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy with the way The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation 
Limited (SAGIC) handled a claim under their home insurance policy for accidental damage.
What happened
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs C made a claim to SAGIC after water came in through their 
roof and caused damage. 
SAGIC accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to handle it. The loss adjuster 
instructed a removal firm to take into storage some of Mr and Mrs Cs contents while repairs 
were carried out.
Mr and Mrs C made several complaints to SAGIC about the way their claim had been 
handled. In summary they were unhappy about the following:
late payments.
delay caused by the loss adjuster in appointing a supplier to inspect the carpets.
short notice to book a hotel.
the removal company had damaged and/or lost some of their possessions. In particular a 
gold watch hadnt been returned. 
clothes hadnt been packed and stored correctly. Mrs C said it would cost £1,400 to dry 
clean these. 
Mrs C also said three items of clothing had been damaged, one of which was a jacket 
with a matching skirt and trousers. She calculated it would cost £437 to replace those 
items.
The removal companys insurance policy covered other various broken and missing items. 
But its insurer would only offer £450 towards the dry cleaning. It said watches werent 
covered by the policy.
SAGIC offered £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the way the claim 
had been handled, a £500 contribution towards the watch and returned the policy excess of 
£75.
As Mr and Mrs C werent happy with that, they brought their complaint to this service. I 
issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
gold watch
Mr and Mrs C have provided photos of the gold watch in a box and also evidence that the 
removal company took other items of jewellery into storage even though they werent 
supposed to. Mr and Mrs C say they intended to clear all valuables from the room in 
question before the removal company arrived but they think they must have overlooked the 
gold watch. Theyve reported it to the police as a theft. Whilst I understand that Mr and 
Mrs C believe the removal company is liable, at the end of the day its their word against 
the removal companys. Unfortunately for them, there isnt enough evidence to persuade 
me that someone from the removal company more likely than not stole the gold watch. I 
think SAGIC treated them fairly in paying them £500 on account of the watch. I wont 
require it to do any more in this respect.
dry cleaning
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr and Mrs Cs clothes were returned in boxes that 
were open, broken or damaged. Its reasonable to assume that as a result at least some 
of the contents were creased or damaged. Mr and Mrs C have estimated that it would 
cost £1,400 to have all the undamaged clothes dry-cleaned. But Im not convinced that all 
the undamaged clothes would need dry-cleaning. If all those clothes were dry-cleaned, 
Mr and Mrs C might well end up in a better position than they were before the clothes 
were taken into storage. That wouldnt be fair. In the circumstances I think the offer of 
£450 towards the dry-cleaning cost was fair and reasonable.
damaged clothing
SAGIC accepted that three items of clothing had been damaged beyond repair (including 
a jacket that was part of a suit). If those clothes had been damaged directly as a result of 
the water leak, SAGIC wouldnt be obliged to replace them on a new for old basis. Thats 
because the policy allows SAGIC to deduct a sum for wear and tear when settling claims 
for clothing. I think its reasonable to adopt the same basis when compensating Mrs C for 
the loss arising from damage caused by the removal company. Two of the items were 
about six years old and one was two years old. Having checked the value of similar items 
online, I think the sum of £40 per item offered by SAGIC is fair and reasonable to 
compensate Mrs C for her loss  thats a total of £120.
matching sets
One of the damaged items was a jacket which came with a matching skirt and trousers. 
The skirt and trousers werent damaged. So SAGIC refused to contribute towards 
replacing those. If the jacket had been damaged as a result of the leak, SAGIC wouldnt 
have been obliged under the policy wording to replace the matching items. But this 
service often finds that approach to be unfair.
I can understand Mrs C being unhappy with SAGICs response since before the damage 
she had a fully matching suit and going forward she wouldnt. But it also seems unfair to 
require SAGIC to pay to replace items that havent been damaged. So I think a compromise 
is the fair and pragmatic way forward. I usually think fair compensation in these 
circumstances should be half the cost of replacing the undamaged parts of the set. In this 
case it would be half the cost after taking into account the deduction for wear and tear. That 
would be £20 per item.
compensation
Mr and Mrs C say SAGIC offered £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
their loss adjuster. They think it should have offered to increase this when the failings of 
the removal company became clearer. I can understand their logic. But Ive looked 
generally at what Id have considered appropriate compensation if SAGIC hadnt offered 
anything. The compensation is for some delays and poor planning on the part of the loss 
adjuster followed by the trouble and upset of various items being damaged or lost by the removal company. Overall I think such compensation would have been in the region of 
£500. So Im not going to require SAGIC to pay any more in this respect.
Mr and Mrs C said in summary:
They didnt see how it could be fair to receive £500 for a watch worth £1,000 that had 
been stolen from them.
They thought all clothes in damaged boxes should be dry-cleaned.
They wouldnt be able to replace the damaged and undamaged matching items with 
the amount I thought SAGIC was liable to pay.
SAGIC had offered £500 compensation for failings on the part of its loss adjuster. They 
thought the same amount again should be offered for the failings of the removal 
company.
In response SAGIC said:
It had offered Mr and Mrs C £40 for each damaged item of clothing in July 2019.
There was no evidence that the two undamaged items of clothing had been bought as 
a set with the jacket as opposed to three single items that matched.
It would accept an outcome of the complaint being not upheld with a recommendation 
to make an additional payment of £40 for the undamaged items.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs C I cant be sure that someone from the removal company 
stole the gold watch. If I were sure, Id require SAGIC to pay the full cost of replacing it. 
Since Im not sure, I think the offer by SAGIC to pay £500 towards replacing it was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Having looked at photos of the damaged boxes Im not convinced that all the items in the 
damaged boxes would necessarily need to be dry-cleaned. Thats why I think SAGICs offer 
to pay £450 towards dry cleaning costs was reasonable.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C wont be able to replace the damaged clothes for the amount 
offered of £120. But SAGIC isnt obliged to replace these on a new for old basis. Its 
entitled to deduct an amount for wear and tear. Taking into account how old the items were 
and the price of similar items online, I remain of the opinion that the sum of £120 offered by 
SAGIC was reasonable. If Mr and Mrs C wish to accept this offer, they should contact 
SAGIC direct concerning it.
Just because SAGIC offered £500 compensation before the failings of the removal company 
became clear doesnt mean that this service will automatically increase the compensation to 
reflect more poor service that subsequently came to light after the offer. Instead I look at how 
SAGIC handled the claim as a whole and consider how much Id have awarded if SAGIC 
hadnt made any offer. When doing so, I take into account awards made by this service in 
similar circumstances where the failings have had broadly the same impact on the 
consumers. Having done so, I still think the sum of £500 is appropriate to compensate 
Mr and Mrs C for the trouble and impact SAGICs failings have had on them.
Previously SAGIC relied on the argument that the undamaged items werent covered 
because the policy didnt cover matching sets. It didnt say the items in question werent part of a matching set. So I dont think its fair to raise that argument at this stage. Since Im now, 
in line with my provisional findings, requiring SAGIC to pay a total of £40 for the undamaged 
matching items and it had previously not offered anything in respect of these, this is a 
change of outcome of the complaint.
Putting things right
I think SAGIC should pay Mr and Mrs C £20 each for the two undamaged matching items.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require The Salvation Army General Insurance Corporation 
Limited to pay Mr and Mrs C £40.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman