DRN-3352528
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint is about their joint portfolio of three buy-to-let mortgages with 
Mortgage Express (ME). Mr D is unhappy that ME wouldnt communicate about the 
mortgages with him at his prison address and insisted on using Mr and Mrs Ds joint 
residential address for correspondence. This caused delays in Mr D knowing what was 
happening with the mortgages. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs D are unhappy that Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers were 
appointed. They also raised concerns that some of the weekly standing order payments 
made to the mortgages in 2021 hadnt been allocated to the accounts. 
The complaint dealt with by ME and referred to this service related to four mortgage 
accounts. Three in joint names and one in Mr Ds sole name. As such, the complaint has 
been separated into two for data protection reasons. This complaint only deals with the 
complaint in relation to the three joint mortgages. The issue regarding the change of Mr Ds 
correspondence address has also been dealt with under the complaint in his sole name, as it 
only affected him. That said, when assessing how ME has dealt with the financial difficulties 
since 2016 it will be taken into account that while Mrs D would have received information 
about the accounts when it was sent, there would have been a delay in Mr D receiving 
information.
What happened
There are three mortgages subject of this complaint and all were arranged as buy-to-let 
mortgages on an interest-only basis. For clarity the mortgages account numbers subject to 
this complaint end with 2107, 8908 and 8905. They were arranged in joint names and 
correspondence about the mortgages was sent to the address Mrs D was residing at, even 
though Mr D ceasing living there in late 2019. Mr D was, therefore, reliant on the information 
being forwarded to him with associated delays.
In 2016 all three mortgages went into arrears. There were periods thereafter were no 
payments were made, others where payments were made of around the amount of the 
contractual monthly payment (CMP), but not sufficient to significantly reduce the arrears, and 
other points were payments were made that were significantly below the CMP.  
In 2017 Mr and Mrs D began paying the mortgages by standing order on a weekly basis. 
Mr D has told us that this was to do with restrictions that had been placed on his bank 
accounts.  Payment holidays were granted on the mortgages for November 2020 to January 
2021.
In January 2021 ME made formal demands for each of the mortgages, meaning that 
Mr and Mrs D were asked to repay the mortgages in full. This didnt happen and in 
April 2021 ME informed them that if the mortgages werent repaid, it would appoint LPA 
Receivers. LPA Receivers were appointed in June 2021. 
Mr D complained to ME in March 2021 and April 2021 about ME not having communicated 
with him directly in prison and how the accounts were being dealt with. In June 2021 he 
added a complaint that some of the weekly payments made in January and February 2021 
hadnt been paid to the mortgages until March 2021. 
Mr and Mrs D asked this service to consider their complaint in May 2021, after being given 
referral rights to do so, but before ME had issued its final response letter. 
ME issued its final response letter on 4 September 2021. The letter was addressed to Mr D 
only and covered not only the three mortgages involved in this complaint, but also one that 
Mr D holds in his sole name. As I have said above, I will only be dealing with the issues 
relating to the joint mortgages in this complaint and so I will only detail the information 
contained in the final response letter relevant to the issues being dealt with under this 
complaint. 
ME explained it was committed to help customers in financial difficulties, but that would be in 
the form of agreeing short-term arrangements with the hope that circumstances would 
improve. However, it couldnt allow accounts to remain in arrears for an indefinite period and 
despite what Mr D was hoping would happen, there was no guarantee that the situation with 
the accounts would improve. It said that it hadnt ignored the early complaint or the updates 
Mr D had provided about his situation, rather everything had been assessed and it had taken 
the action it considered it needed to do protect its interests. It didnt consider that it would be 
appropriate not to progress the processes it had started while Mr D awaited the outcome of a 
legal hearing in September 2021. 
ME continued by explaining that as Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage portfolio were in arrears and 
hadnt been maintained in line with the terms and conditions, it appointed LPA Receivers in 
May 2021 to administer the accounts. It didnt think that was unreasonable or inappropriate. 
It was satisfied that in providing payment holidays, showing forbearance and changing the 
payment due date for the mortgages meant that it had treated him fairly. It was also happy 
that, although its letters sent in March 2021 detailed timescales for the appointment, 
Mr and Mrs D had ample time to rectify the situation before the actual appointment was 
made. 
In relation to the payments that were made to the account, ME said that it hadnt identified 
any errors in the application of payments to the mortgages. It also highlighted that unless 
payments were made by direct debit, it had no control over them and, ultimately, it was the 
accountholders responsibility to ensure payments were made when they should be.
In October 2021 ME offered to stand down the LPA Receivers on the provision of 
confirmation that the properties were being insured and recent valuations. ME also required 
that the properties were sold within three months of the LPA Receiver being stood down. 
Mr D said to us that he didnt think the conditions of the offer were reasonable. This was 
because, due to his incarceration, he didnt have easy access to the insurance documents. 
He said that he didnt understand how ME expected him to arrange valuations given his 
circumstances and didnt see why ME required this. He also said that none of the issues 
about how the LPA Receivers had handled the properties had been addressed, nor the 
refusal of offered arrangements to deal with the arrears. He didnt think it was a genuine 
choice he was being offered and that three months to sell the properties wasnt enough. 
Mr and Mrs D also provided a bank statement showing a payment leaving the account on 
9 September 2021, which didnt have correlating transaction on the mortgage account 
ending with 8905. 
In November 2021 ME confirmed that the LPA Receivers had been stood down.One of our investigators considered both this complaint and that for the mortgage in Mr Ds 
sole name. As the matter of non-receipt of correspondence relating to these mortgages only 
effected Mr D, the investigator addressed that concern in her opinion letter issued on the 
complaint in Mr Ds sole name. She did, however, provide a summary of her conclusion, 
which was that the offer made was enough to compensate Mr D. However, she wasnt 
persuaded that any delays in Mr D receiving information about the joint mortgages was 
material to the position the accounts were in, rather it appeared to be to do with the lack of 
rent being received and restrictions on Mr Ds banking activities. 
In relation to the LPA Receivers, the investigator explained that we couldnt consider the 
actions of that business as it didnt fall within our jurisdiction. She went on to set out a brief 
history of the payments made to each of the accounts. Given the payment history and 
amount of arrears, she didnt think it had been unreasonable for ME to have appointed LPA 
Receivers. 
The investigator also explained that Mr and Mrs D would, in the first instance, need to 
approach their bank to gain evidence about what happened to any payments that left their 
accounts , but which were not showing as having been received by ME. Once that evidence 
was provided, further investigations could be completed. However, without that evidence, 
there was nothing to show that ME had done anything wrong and it seemed to be simply that 
the payment hadnt been received by it. 
Our investigator also considered the offer made in October 2021 to stand down the LPA 
Receivers and Mr and Mrs D were unhappiness with the conditions of the offer. She didnt 
think that the offer was an unreasonable one, as it gave Mr and Mrs D control over the 
situation with the properties. She didnt think ME had needed to do that in the circumstances, 
and not something that we would have asked it to do. As such, the offer could only be 
considered as ME treating Mr and Mrs D fairly. The fact that one of the properties was in 
negative equity was something that would need to be discussed with ME. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt accept the investigators findings. The investigator asked that they 
explain what it was that they didnt agree with, but they didnt provide any further details and 
asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly confirm the LPA Receivers dont fall within the jurisdiction of this service. So 
while I can consider whether it was reasonable for ME to appoint LPA Receivers, I cant 
consider Mr and Mrs Ds concerns about the actions of the LPA Receivers after they were 
appointed or the losses they think they suffered because of the actions taken by the 
Receivers. 
Mr D has been the sole correspondent on this complaint, other than Mrs D giving her 
consent for us to consider it. However, as the accounts are joint, Mr and Mrs D both had a 
responsibility to ensure that the mortgages were being conducted as they should have been 
and for dealing with any problems regarding them.
I have summarised the situation with the three mortgage accounts quite briefly above, but I 
dont think it needs more. Mr and Mrs D would have been aware of the payments they 
needed to make to their mortgages and what payments they were, or were not, making at 
various points. While Mr D may have received the correspondence about the accounts 
slightly later than Mrs D did, I dont think that negates that they would have known they werent making the payments they were required to under the mortgages. I am satisfied that 
they were aware there were arrears on the mortgages and that the payments they were 
making were at best not reducing the arrears by any notable amount and at worse meant 
that the arrears were building by hundreds of pounds a month. 
Lenders are expected to try and help customers in financial difficulties. However, that 
doesnt mean that a lender has to agree with everything a customer wants. I would also point 
out that the expectation of lenders does vary depending on the type of customer and 
mortgage involved. Mr and Mrs Ds mortgages are unregulated, commercial mortgages and 
this means that ME wouldnt be expected to provide the same level of forbearance, 
concessions and support that it would be on a residential mortgage on the customers home.
As I have detailed above, these mortgages started to fall into arrears in 2016. While Mr D is 
unhappy that his suggestions for arrangements havent been accepted, unreasonably in his 
view, such arrangements need to be of benefit to a customer overall. It would not be 
appropriate for a lender to accept a proposal from a customer that would simply delay the 
inevitable and in the long run put them in a worse position. Given the circumstances in this 
case, I am not persuaded that ME acted unreasonably. It showed forbearance and allowed 
reduced payments and payment holidays in order to allow Mr and Mrs D time to resolve the 
issues. It was around five years after the difficulties with the payments to the mortgages 
started that ME appointed LPA Receivers, which it was allowed to do under the terms of the 
mortgage. Overall, I dont consider ME acted inappropriately in appointing LPA Receivers 
when it did.
ME removed the LPA Receivers in November 2021 at Mr and Mrs Ds request. As I dont 
consider the appointment of the LPA Receivers was inappropriate and the situation hadnt 
materially changed by October 2021 when ME offered to remove them, this isnt something 
that I would have asked ME to do. As such, I can only find that ME giving Mr and Mrs D the 
opportunity to sell the properties themselves and thereby reduce the costs that would be 
incurred, was more than fair. While Mr and Mrs D werent happy about the timescales for 
sales to be achieved, they didnt have to accept the offer if they didnt want to.
ME said that it had looked into missing payments and late allocation of payments before it 
issued its final response letter and couldnt find any payments that hadnt been allocated. 
Mr and Mrs D dont appear to have provided any further evidence of the payments theyve 
said werent allocated correctly. However, they did provide evidence of a payment that left 
Mr Ds account after the final response letter was sent. There is not a correlating transaction 
on the relevant mortgage account, so it appears something may have gone wrong either at 
Mr Ds bank, in the banking system or with MEs accounting. As there was evidence of 
previous reversals of payments, our investigator suggested that Mr and Mrs D ask the 
paying bank to check what happened to the payment, so that further investigations could be 
undertaken. They dont appear to have done so, or if they have, they havent provided this 
service with the evidence. Without evidence of wrongdoing by ME I cant uphold a complaint 
against it. So if Mr and Mrs D have received information about the payment they believe has 
gone missing, which shows that the payment was sent to ME, they should send it to ME to 
allow it to investigate the matter further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 May 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman