DRN-4211183
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S complain that they have mortgage arrears due to an error by Bank of 
Scotland plc. Mrs S has dealt with the complaint. She asks that her credit file is corrected, 
and the arrears and any charges and interest are removed. 
What happened
Mrs S called Bank of Scotland in early November 2022. She wanted to apply for further 
borrowing. Bank of Scotland said it would remove some historic arrears markers from her 
mortgage account so that an application for further borrowing could proceed.
Bank of Scotland told Mrs S her account was in credit by about £1,000. It said she could 
make underpayments and the difference would be taken from the credit. However, Bank of 
Scotland had assumed the payment for November 2022 had already been taken, which 
wasnt the case. Once the November payment was taken the remaining credit wasnt 
enough to cover the payment due in December 2022. 
Mrs S made a nominal payment in December 2022. Bank of Scotland sent her a letter 
saying she owed about £250. Mrs S made a part payment in January 2023. Mrs S now has 
arrears of about £560. Shes worried this will impact her credit file and lead to additional fees 
and interest. She says shes worked hard to clear her debts over the last few years, and this 
matter has made her upset and anxious. 
Bank of Scotland accepts the information provided during the call was unclear. It said it 
hadnt recorded the arrears on Mrs Ss credit file and offered £100 for the upset caused.
Our investigator said Mr and Mrs S hadnt been caused financial detriment. He said the 
arrears are due to payments they owed and didnt pay. However, the matter did cause upset. 
Our investigator said Bank of Scotland should pay a further £100, which it agreed to do. And 
put a note on Mr and Mrs Ss account about how the arrears came about.  
Mrs S didnt agree. She said she should be put back into the position she was in before the 
error  that is without any mortgage arrears. And she didnt consider £100 was enough 
compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland made an error. The information it gave Mrs S in November 2022 led her to 
believe she could make underpayments of up to £1,000 without her account falling into 
arrears. In fact, once the payment due in November 2022 was processed, the remaining 
credit was about £375. 
Mrs S said she made the payment for November 2022 in advance, so she doesnt think its 
right that this was taken from the £1,000 credit. I think what happened here is that the 
payment Mrs S made at the end of October 2022 was included in the £1,000 credit. 
Mrs S made a nominal payment only in December 2022. After the remaining credit was used 
she owed about £250. Mrs S also made an underpayment in January 2023. As a result, she 
had arrears of about £560.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Bank of Scotland to waive the arrears. Ive 
explained why below.
Mr and Mrs S arent out of pocket. Bank of Scotland didnt make an error when 
allocating payments to the account. The arrears came about because payments to the 
account werent made in full when they were due.
Mrs S missed a payment in December 2022 because of the unclear information she was 
given in November 2022. She was alerted to this in mid-December 2022, when Bank of 
Scotland wrote to her saying shed missed her monthly payment and owed about £250. 
After receiving the letter, Mrs S contacted Bank of Scotland to check what had 
happened. It told her that a large part of the £1,000 credit was used for the payment due 
in November 2022. 
By late December 2022 Bank of Scotland had given Mrs S correct information about her 
account. That is, she needed to make a payment of about £250 to make up the payment 
due in December 2022. And she needed to make a full monthly payment in January 
2023.
While I dont think that Mr and Mrs S are out of pocket, I do think that Bank of Scotland 
should pay compensation for the upset this caused to Mrs S. 
It must have been upsetting for Mrs S to be told in November 2022 she had a £1,000 credit 
and could make underpayments up to this amount, only to be told in December 2022 her 
account was in arrears. This would have been especially upsetting for Mrs S for two 
reasons.
First, Mrs S needed money for repairs to the property. Mrs S spoke to the mortgage adviser 
in November 2022 about taking out further borrowing to pay for repairs to the property. She 
told Bank of Scotland in late December 2022 she might struggle with the payment due in 
January 2023. More recently, Mrs S told us shed asked Bank of Scotland for a payment 
break so that she can pay for repairs to the property. 
Second, Mrs S told us shed worked hard to clear her debts over the last few years. Mrs S 
says she now has the worry of clearing the arrears on her mortgage account.
However, I must also take into account here that Bank of Scotland gave correct information 
to Mrs S in December 2022 about the payments she needed to make. She had the 
opportunity to make up the shortfall in the December 2022 payment before the end of that 
month and to make the payment due in January 2023 in full. I dont think I can fairly find that 
she didnt do so because she was relying on incorrect information. So while I understand 
Mrs S is upset about her account being in arrears, I dont think this is solely due to an error 
by Bank of Scotland.
Taking all this into account, I think its fair and reasonable to require Bank of Scotland to pay 
compensation of £200 (in total) for the upset caused by the unclear information. Like our 
investigator, I think it should make a note on Mr and Mrs Ss account about how the arrears 
came about. Bank of Scotland said it reports mortgage arrears to the credit reference agencies when the 
arrears are more than a monthly payment. Thats not the case here. Bank of Scotland said it 
didnt record the arrears or missed payments on Mrs Ss credit file, and I havent seen 
anything to suggest otherwise.
The arrears will need to be repaid. From what Mrs S has said, it seems unlikely shes in a 
position to repay the arrears in full immediately. Id urge Mrs S to remain in contact with 
Bank of Scotland with the aim of agreeing an affordable arrangement for repaying the 
arrears. Id expect Bank of Scotland to respond fairly and explore what options might be 
available to support Mrs S if she does have financial difficulties. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Bank of Scotland plc to pay £200 
compensation (in total) to Mrs S. If its already paid the £100 it offered before the complaint 
came to us, it can deduct this. It should make a note on the mortgage account regarding how 
the arrears came about. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman