DRN-2019309
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car he bought with a loan from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. 
What happened
In October 2019 Mr C bought a car from a dealer (which Ill call V) for just over £5,300. The 
recorded mileage was just over 14,500 and the car was a little under three years old. He 
paid for the car with the help of a loan from Hitachi, arranged by V.
Mr C says that there were problems with the car from the outset. First, a dust cap on a tyre 
was so corroded that it had to be cut off, causing a puncture. Then, in February 2020, he 
says that the brakes seized and that warning lights for ABS and traction control came on. Mr 
C returned the car to the dealership, but it said it was unable to find any issue with the 
brakes, although it did reset the warning lights. 
Mr C wasnt satisfied that the problems he had reported had been resolved and referred the 
matter to this service. One of our investigators considered it but wasnt persuaded that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr C didnt accept the investigators      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C took out a loan from Hitachi to pay for the car. That loan was made under 
arrangements between Hitachi and V. Because of that, the effect of section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, if Mr C has a claim for breach of contract or 
misrepresentation against V, he has a like claim against Hitachi. 
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 the sale contract between Mr C and V was to be read 
as including a term that the car would be of satisfactory quality  meaning that it would be of 
a quality that a reasonable person would regard as satisfactory in all the circumstances. The 
circumstances here include the cars age, mileage and price. 
I have no reason to disbelieve what Mr C has said about the problems he experienced with 
the car. What I must consider however is what caused those problems and whether that 
meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
The evidence about the cause of the problems is limited; its also been provided by the 
dealership, and so cant be treated as wholly independent. That doesnt mean I should 
disregard it, but I must have that in mind when deciding how much weight to attach to it. 
The first issue with the car was the tyre valve. I accept that it was corroded and had to be 
replaced. Its unlikely that corrosion to that extent would have occurred in the few months Mr 
C had the car before the problem became apparent. Its likely that it was present at the time 
of sale. However, I note that repairs were carried out at no cost to Mr C. Those repairs were 
relatively minor; in the circumstances I dont believe it would be fair to require Hitachi to do 
anything further.   
This was resolved, but warning lights continued to show. V concluded that this was because 
sensors had been disturbed when a tyre was replaced. Mr C says no tyres had been 
replaced. The investigator thought however that it was likely a tyre was removed and re-
fitted when the valve was fixed. I agree with him that this appears to be the most likely 
explanation. But in any event, the issue was resolved at no cost to Mr C. 
The more serious issue that Mr C reported was that the brakes were failing to release. The 
dealership suggested this was not uncommon if a car hasnt been driven for some time. But, 
whilst Mr Cs mileage was relatively low in the first few months he had the car, I dont think 
its accurate to say he hadnt been using it. 
However, the dealerships inspection of the brakes didnt reveal any issue with them, except 
that they were dirty and had a build-up rust due to poor weather conditions. The investigator 
concluded that there wasnt therefore sufficient evidence for him to conclude that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the time of sale. As Ive said, the evidence in this case is 
limited, and for that reason I agree with the investigators conclusions. There are a number 
of possible reasons for the problem Mr C has described, not all of which would mean the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. But an inspection of the car concluded that there was no fault 
with the brakes. In the circumstances, I dont believe I can fairly conclude that that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality; there isnt sufficient evidence for me to do so.
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to take 
any further steps to resolve Mr Cs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 13 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman