DRN-3925437
The complaint
Ms L complains that a car supplied with finance from FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In August 2021 Ms L was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with FCE.
In April 2022 Ms L experienced an issue with the keyless entry and handbrake. The car was 
taken to a dealership who found that the issues were caused by the battery being low on 
30% charge. This had resulted in some of the electrics not working. The battery was 
recharged and retested. No fault was found.
In June 2022 Ms L experienced further issues with the keyless entry. The car was taken to 
another dealership who found that the battery was 70% charged. The battery was recharged 
and retested. No faults were found.
Ms L complained to FCE and asked for the battery to be replaced. FCE didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said no fault had been found with the battery.
Ms L brought her complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld 
the complaint. I said that the battery had been found to be low on each occasion the car had 
been to the dealership, and that the low battery was affecting the functioning of the car 
including the keyless entry. I said that although no fault had been found with the battery, I 
wasnt persuaded that the cause of the low battery was due to Ms Ls driving style. I said I 
didnt think a reasonable person would expect a battery to drain down to 30% after only 8 
months on a brand new car and then drain down to 70% after a recharge and a further 2 
months of use. I found that the battery wasnt sufficiently durable and said FCE should 
replace it at no cost to Ms L.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence of arguments they wished to raise.
Ms L replied and said she agreed that the battery should be replaced. She said she thought 
she should receive compensation for the cost of the journeys she had made to have the 
battery tested, as well as for the inconvenience caused.
FCE replied and said it would cover the cost of a replacement battery. It said that Ms L could 
source her own battery and send the invoice, which it would reimburse. FCA said that Ms L 
should be aware that accessories such as dash cams will drain the power on the battery if 
they are left switched on.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the responses from both parties. My decision remains that FCE should meet 
the costs of a new battery. Im not persuaded that any further compensation should be 
awarded because Ms L has been able to use the vehicle throughout. 
Putting things right
To put things right, FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit must reimburse Ms L for the cost of 
a replacement battery. Ms L should arrange to have the battery replaced herself and should 
send the invoice to FCE for reimbursement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint, FCE should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman