DRN-1838496
The complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc caused unreasonable delays when considering a 
mortgage application because it had concerns about cladding in the property she wanted to 
buy. Ms D says the process stalled as Barclays insisted that it needed a cladding report 
even though shed been told by an independent valuer than such a report wouldnt be 
needed.
Ms D says that she lost out on the investment property, and the valuation fee shed paid to 
Barclays, because it unnecessarily declined giving her a mortgage. Ms D suspects Barclays 
may never had intended to make the loan available to her potentially on discriminatory 
grounds due to her ethnicity or citizenship status.
Ms D would like the £205 valuation fee refunded to her and shed like compensation for the 
upset caused by Barclays actions and the lost opportunity to bid for other properties while 
her application was considered and then stalled.
What happened
On 16 April 2019 Ms D applied for a buy-to-let mortgage with Barclays. Ms D wanted a 
capital repayment mortgage of £142,500 over a 25 year term to buy a flat within a multi-
storey building as an investment property. As part of the application process, Barclays 
required a valuation for mortgage purposes. Ms D paid Barclays £205 to cover the cost of 
the valuation as part of its buy-to-let application process.
The valuer, acting for Barclays, inspected the property soon after the application was made. 
The valuer noted that the building had cladding on its external walls and asked for a 
specialist report that confirmed that the cladding had been tested and that it presented no 
fire hazard. Barclays told Ms D it wouldnt be able to make a mortgage offer without a report 
that the valuer was satisfied with. 
Ms D tried to get a report to share with Barclays from the vendor and the property managers. 
However, at times she was told there was no such report because samples of the cladding 
had been sent away and found to be non-combustible so no report was needed. Later, a 
report was shared but Barclays valuer wasnt happy with the evidence provided and so the 
mortgage didnt go to offer.
Eventually the vendor decided to put the flat back on the market as Ms D hasnt managed to 
secure a mortgage offer. At that point Barclays cancelled the application.
Ms D complained to Barclays on 5 July 2019. Barclays responded to the complaint on 9 July 
2019. It said that the reports and documentation that Ms D had provided didnt satisfy the 
requirements of the valuer. And without that Barclays wasnt willing to lend on this property 
at the time. Barclays apologised for any inconvenience caused but said it didnt think there 
had been any mistake on this occasion.
On 15 July 2019 Barclays wrote to Ms D to confirm the mortgage application had been 
closed.
Ms D was dissatisfied with Barclays response and brought her complaint to us. Our 
investigator looked into what had happened. He thought that Barclays had acted reasonably 
in not proceeding with the transaction until it had access to the specialist report the surveyor 
had said should be obtained.
Ms D disagreed with our investigators findings and replied to say, in summary:
- The valuer that Barclays chose kept asking for a cladding report and yet Ms D had 
been told by other parties including an independent valuer that she didnt need a 
cladding report as there was no combustible cladding at the property;
- Barclays had promised to bear the cost of the valuation if the loan wasnt provided;
- Ms D knows Barclays gave loans to other customers during the same period without 
an independent surveyor. 
Ms D says the delays with the mortgage application put a considerable strain on her. It also 
prevented her from buying another alternative investment or residential property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy of the surveyors buy-to-let valuation report prepared for Barclays. Im 
aware that Ms D was also sent a copy of the report. The valuation was prepared by a RICS 
qualified surveyor having attended the property.
The valuation report said The main walls are of modern steel framed construction with brick, 
metal and tile claddings. In section 9 of the report it says:
This is a high-rise property with claddings including metal cladding at high levels. A report 
should be obtained from an appropriate specialist confirming that the cladding is not of a 
flammable nature. 
The valuation report also said that it was considered essential by the valuer that Barclays 
had confirmation that no flammable cladding had been used in the construction of the 
property before it released any funds. Having received the valuation report, Barclays told Ms 
D from the outset what it required before the mortgage should complete.
At the time of the application, there was less guidance to valuers and surveyors on 
assessing properties potentially affected by possible combustible cladding than there is now. 
The EWS1 process and guidance didnt come in until December 2019. As a result, there was 
more scope for individual surveyors, using their discretion and professional expertise, to 
disagree about whether a property needed an assessment or not. That might explain why 
there were varying opinions among surveyors surrounding Ms Ds case.
Ive looked at the steps Barclays took once it received further information from Ms D. 
Barclays has shared the underwriters notes with us, which show that the additional 
information provided by Ms D was shared with the surveyors to see if it satisfied or changed 
the surveyors initial request for further information. In this instance, correspondence 
between Barclays and the surveyor shows the further information wasnt enough to satisfy 
the surveyors requirements. Im encouraged to see that Barclays did carefully consider the 
extra information and explore revisiting its position having referred the matter back to the 
surveyor. I think that was the reasonable thing to do in this case. Ms D has said that at times Barclays told her the mortgage would go ahead and then went 
back on this. Ms D said the checks all seemed fine when Barclays emailed her on 15 May 
2019. Having looked at the email sent on 15 May, Barclays clearly states that further 
information is needed and that this includes the cladding report required by the valuer. Im 
satisfied from all the evidence provided, including the emails sent between Barclays and Ms 
D, that Barclays told her as soon as the valuation report was received that the valuer would 
need to see a report about the cladding before a mortgage offer could go ahead. I havent 
seen any evidence that suggests Barclays led Ms D to believe that it would overlook this 
information at any stage in the application process.
Ms D has expressed some concern that there may have been other reasons for Barclays not 
giving her a mortgage. In fact, Ms D thinks maybe it never intended to. Barclays has said it 
didnt decline the application. Rather it required documents before it would agree to lend.
Ive looked in detail at how Barclays handled Ms Ds application as part of considering of this 
complaint. I can see that Barclays took active steps to consider the application- such as 
arranging a valuation report and referring the case to its underwriters. Barclays also appear 
to have tried to progress the application at an appropriate pace, with the application moving 
to valuation within a short period of time. And when the valuer asked for further information, 
that was communicated without delay.
Ms D was told by Barclays that the reason for the mortgage not proceeding was because the 
information required by valuer hadnt been provided. And that reason is reflected in the 
evidence presented to us. Im not persuaded that Barclays deliberately withheld a mortgage 
from Ms D for discriminatory reasons. 
Ms Ds said that Barclays told her if the mortgage didnt go ahead then her valuation fee 
would be refunded. Barclays has said that wouldnt be standard practice in such instances to 
give back the valuation fee. I can see there were points at which Ms D asked for her fee to 
be returned during the complaint process. However, because Ms Ds complaint wasnt 
upheld, Barclays said it wasnt willing to return the fee. 
Im aware there are certain mortgages available in the market that offer free valuations as a 
key feature in the proposition. But that wasnt the case here with Ms Ds buy-to-let mortgage 
application. Ive seen the mortgage information sheet produced by Barclays and shared with 
Ms D on 16 April 2019. On page three of this document it says, under a section called Fees 
payable to Barclays:
Valuation fee (payable when you submit your application and is refundable if the valuation 
has not yet been carried out. Where we have agreed that you can make your own valuation 
arrangements, this valuation fee will not apply).
I think this document makes it reasonably clear that the valuation fee isnt refundable once 
the report has been completed. While Barclays may have considered returning the fee to Ms 
D during the complaint process, I think it was reasonable that Barclays didnt offer to refund 
the fee in this particular case having not upheld the complaint.  And Ive found no evidence 
that supports Ms Ds recollection that a commitment was made from Barclays to make an 
exception to its usual policy and return the valuation fee if Ms Ds application didnt go 
ahead.
Overall, I havent found that Barclays made a mistake in the way it handled Ms Ds mortgage 
application. As such, I think its reasonable that it hasnt agreed to refund the fee to settle 
this complaint. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman