DRN-1652818
Complaint
Miss K complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC hasnt managed her credit card account 
properly. She has had problems making payments and receiving statements, which led to 
her incurring charges.
Background
Miss K took out a Tesco credit card in June 2018.  In December 2018, she raised concerns 
about not being able to make payments. Tesco responded and said it hadnt made any 
errors but some payments failed because of an address mis-match.  This complaint was 
resolved. Tesco agreed to refund a late payment fee and reinstate Miss Ks promotional 
interest rates.  
In May 2019, Miss K missed her monthly payment. As a result, Tesco charged her a late 
payment fee and removed her promotional interest rates. She attempted to make a payment 
in June 2019 but the payment failed. Eventually she was able to make a payment by phone. 
Miss K complained that she hadnt received her May statement by post, which she relied on 
the know when to make payments. She also complained about the problems she had 
making payments in June 2019. Tesco agreed to pay her £40 in compensation. Following 
this, Miss K paid off the balance of her credit card.  
Miss K brought her complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked into her 
concerns. He didnt uphold the complaint. He said that he thought there wasnt evidence to 
say Tesco had made a mistake when processing payments. He also found that Miss Ks 
May 2019 statement was most likely sent, so again didnt think Tesco was responsible for 
her missing her payment.  
Miss K didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the case has been passed to me to 
make a decision. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Miss K feels strongly that Tescos actions have led to her losing out financially 
and caused her inconvenience because she has spent time dealing with the problems with 
her payments. But in order to direct Tesco to do something, I first need to establish that it 
has made a mistake that caused her to lose out and/or suffer inconvenience. 
Ive first looked at whether mistakes by Tesco are the cause of Miss Ks payments not being 
received correctly into her credit card account. Tesco say that in both December 2018 and 
June 2019 an error code was reported that suggested the problem was to do with an 
address mis-match. It explained this could be because Miss K entered an incorrect post 
code when attempting to make the payment, or because the sending account she was 
paying from has a different address from the address it holds for her. Tesco says the 
address it holds is the same address that was provided when the account was opened. Miss K disputes that shes entered an incorrect post code. And she also doesnt think there is a 
problem with the bank accounts she is attempting to make payments from. 
Our investigator has attempted to gather information to establish the root cause of why the 
payments have failed, but it has proved difficult to say precisely who is at fault. Im satisfied 
Tesco does hold the correct address information for Miss K as the address it holds is the 
same address that she has given to this service. So it doesnt appear the error code relating 
to an address mis-match is likely caused by data held by Tesco. I understand some of the 
payments Miss K attempted were online - as this is an automated payment system, it also 
seems unlikely this would have resulted in an inputting error by Tesco. I note Miss K was 
able to make payments for several months prior to the problems she incurred in June 2019. 
But it isnt clear from the information I've got why some payments were successful and 
others not. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I havent found that the payment failings are as a result of a 
mistake by Tesco. I appreciate that this isnt the answer Miss K is looking for and also that 
she doesnt feel she is at fault either. However, even if I accept there was an error made by 
Tesco, I note it has paid Miss K some compensation. This is broadly in line with what I would 
expect it to do to recognise the inconvenience caused. So, overall I think Tesco has handled 
the situation reasonably.
Ive also considered the comments made by Miss K about not receiving her May 2019 
statement in the post, and how this prevented her from making her payment that month. 
Tesco has provided a copy of the statement  which is correctly addressed. Ive thought 
about whether its likely that this letter was received by Miss K at that time. I accept that 
sometimes post does go astray, but this is generally a tiny proportion of mail thats sent. I 
havent seen anything to show that Miss K was experiencing specific postal problems around 
May 2019. I know Miss K will find my decision frustrating. But, as the statement was sent to 
her correct address, and Im not aware of any specific reason (other than the fact she cant 
remember receiving it) that it wouldnt have been correctly received, I think its most likely 
that the statement was received by her in May 2019. This means I dont find Tesco were at 
fault for her not making her May 2019 payment  or the associated charges and credit 
reporting. The late fee applied and interest charge were made in line with the terms of the 
account, so I dont require Tescos to make any refund.  
In summary, I havent found fault in the way Tesco has dealt with Miss Ks credit card 
payments or failed to send her statements. For this reason, Im not recommending that 
Tesco needs to do anything further. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
My Final DecisionMy decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Daniel Little
Ombudsman