DRN-2709859
The complaint
Mr R complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr R applied for a credit card from Capital One. This was agreed in October 2015, and a 
limit of £200 approved. In September 2016, the card was suspended. In November 2016, the 
account was defaulted when the balance was £360 debit. A payment plan was agreed in 
June 2019. 
Mr R complained that he shouldnt have been given the card in the first place. He had five 
defaulted debts and four dependents. He had no spare income at all. Capital One didnt do 
sufficient checks and shouldnt have given him the card. Hes paid a lot of fees and interest. 
His credit file had now been marked and he couldnt get any other credit.
Capital One said theyd lent responsibly. Mr R told them he was earning £16000 per annum. 
Their credit searches done at the time showed he had five defaulted debts, but none of them 
were recent to his application. And three of them had been settled (repaid), and another was 
reducing. There werent any problems showing in the previous 12 months. The limit of £200 
was low. But from when the account was opened, there were missed payments. They tried 
to give Mr R time to sort himself out, but eventually the account defaulted in November 2016 
with the balance £360.64 debit. A payment plan of £5 per month was in place, and the 
balance as at September 2020 was £120.64 debit.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Capital One had acted fairly in its 
lending decision. Furthermore, she could see that Capital One had tried to help with a 
payment plan. The entries on Mr Rs credit file were correct  as they followed a notice of 
default in September 2016. The default was registered in November 2016.
Mr r asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R says he shouldnt have been given a credit card by Capital One  because he had 
defaults against him. Soon after getting the card, he missed payments and had late fees. So, 
the debt mounted up. He was now on a payment plan, but there were adverse entries on his 
credit file  that were stopping him applying for a mortgage. Ive thought about what both 
Capital One, and Mr R have said to us  including Mr Rs further note of appeal.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. In considering whether Capital 
One lent responsibly or not, we have to check whether they acted in line within the Financial 
Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as set out in its handbook, (CONC) 
section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a reasonable assessment of 
creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer not making the repayments, 
as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
Ive considered Mr Rs application for the credit card. He told Capital One he was earning 
£16000 per annum. In his complaint  and in his subsequent appeal to us, he said he had 
five defaults outstanding against him  so this shouldve alerted Capital One to ask more 
questions of him before agreeing the card. This is probably the key issue here in deciding on 
Mr Rs complaint. So, Ive looked at the default information that Capital One would have 
seen at the time  from credit reference agencies. It shows five default entries. Three of 
these were for between £346 and £560 and were settled - that is, repaid. So, Capital One 
wouldve (rightly) been assured they were not an existing problem. One more debt is shown 
as defaulted in March 2014 with a balance of £347. But it had reduced to £328  and it was 
more than 18 months old. So, Capital One were justified in considering it to be OK. There 
was one other defaulted debt of £1308  and while this was outstanding, it was also old  at 
December 2013.  So, I think Capital One acted responsibly in the way they considered Mr 
Rs defaults. 
Ive gone onto consider what Capital One wouldve seen if they had made further enquiries 
of Mr R. For example, if they were concerned, they might well have asked to see his bank 
statements. Mr R has shown these to us for between June 2015 and October 2015  when 
he applied for the card. They show Mr Rs weekly salary of £263, and small credit balances. 
But they shown no sign of financial stress  Mr R was managing to make ends meet OK. So, 
even if Capital One had seen his bank statements, I dont think they wouldve changed their 
decision. 
Ive seen that following Mr Rs problems, and the registration of the default - Capital One 
agreed a payment plan. Theyve also refunded a number of fees  so theyve acted fairly in 
trying to help him out. It looks like Mr R has met the agreed payments of £5 per month, so 
hopefully, things are working out. 
All lenders, including Capital One, have an obligation to advise accurate information to credit 
reference agencies. So - Ive looked at the registration of the default in November 2016, and 
this was correctly applied by them. Unfortunately, this means that Mr R will find it difficult get 
credit for six years from that time. 
 So  and I appreciate that Mr R will be disappointed my decision, I wont be asking Capital 
One to do anymore here.
My final decisionI do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman