DRN-3344029
The complaint
Mr M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) marked his credit file with 
missed payments for his personal loan and transferred his current account debt and
personal loan to a debt collection agency (DCA).
What happened
Mr M had a current account and personal loan with NatWest. The balances in January 2020 
were £1,300 and £8,614 respectively. The repayments to the loan were £250.17 per month. 
NatWest took the decision to close Mr Ms accounts and they wrote to him to say so on 11 
February 2020. Payments continued to be made to the personal loan. In January 2021, both 
accounts were passed to a debt collection agency (DCA).The balance as at May 2021 was
£3,757 debit.
Mr M complained that hed been treated unfairly. In his complaint to us, he accepted the 
closure of his account and didnt want to complain about that. But he said the personal loan 
was paid up to date and shouldnt have been passed to the DCA. The missed payment 
entries notified to credit refence agencies (CRAs) in February 2020, March 2020 and May 
2020 were wrong as these payments had been made. He said he received conflicting 
information from NatWest about the personal loan payments  as theyd told him they were 
up to date. The amount of the current account debt notified to the credit reference agencies 
was too high. He wanted to nominate his mother to act for him but NatWest wouldnt allow 
that.
In July 2020, NatWest said the current account debt was £990, and asked that Mr M repay 
the balance of £900. They told him then that payments to the loan were up to date. In 
August 2020, NatWest sent a further final response which said that the direct debits and 
standing orders shouldve been cancelled by them when they gave notice of the account 
closure, but due to an error, this didnt happen. The balance was then £1,005 debit but they 
agreed to refund charges of £61.65 to reduce the balance by that amount. They again 
confirmed the loan payments were up to date.
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator agreed with NatWest that the missed 
payment markers for February 2020, March 2020 and May 2020 would be removed. He 
said it was NatWests policy to transfer all debts to the DCA where one of them was in 
default. He could see that NatWest had agreed to refund the charges on the current 
account. The default in relation to the current account should remain in place as that was 
fair.
NatWest agreed to add Mr Ms mother to the account and our investigator outlined what 
needed to be done to do this.
Mr M remained unhappy. The debt showing with the DCA was still over £1,000 and his 
credit file still showed missed payments on the loan account. Given the misleading 
communications from NatWest over a long period, and for the stress and inconvenience 
suffered, he felt he should receive some compensation. He asked that an ombudsman look 
at his complaint.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
Mr Ms complaint has been with our service since October 2020 and since that time, weve 
been getting information with NatWest and discussing matters with them  and there has 
also been a change of investigator  so Im sorry it has taken a long time to get to this 
provisional decision.
NatWest advised Mr M in February 2020 that they wished to close his accounts. They 
could do this within their terms and conditions  and Mr M doesnt dispute NatWests 
actions, so I wont comment on that any further.
But what happened after that is what Mr M complains about.
Current Account debt: The balance was £878.57 debit on 10 February 2020  just before 
NatWest wrote to Mr M on 11 February 2020 to advise him of the closure. There were 
some further debit items paid over the next two days, plus charges of £84.45  taking the 
balance to £1,005.72 debit. In their letter in August 2020, NatWest agreed to refund 
charges of £61.65  but I can see that this wasnt done when we raised it again with them 
in August 2021. So  the wrong amount of debit balance was advised to the DCA. NatWest 
told us in August 2021 that the balance at the DCA would be adjusted. I can also see that 
NatWests first final response in July 2020 quoted a balance of £990 but asked Mr M to 
repay £900  this was an error on their part and I can see this must have been confusing 
to Mr M. So  NatWest should have been clearer in their letter and didnt refund the 
charges when they agreed to do so. They should now do so and advise the correct debt to 
the DCA and to Mr Ms credit file.
I cannot see that NatWest were wrong to transfer the current account debt to the DCA  Mr 
M owed the money and was in default. Also  it follows that his credit file should be marked 
with the default. All banks, including NatWest, have an obligation to report information to 
CRAs - which they did in this case.
Personal Loan: Mr M has maintained all along that payments were up to date  and 
therefore the entries on his credit file were wrong. I can see from the personal loan 
statements that he missed payments in October 2018, November 2018, September 2018, 
and January 2020. And so  as accurate information must be advised to CRAs, these 
missed payment markers should remain on his credit file.
But NatWest also added missed payment markers for the months of February 2020, March 
2020, and May 2020. I can see from the loan statements that these payments were made 
(by his parents)  and so I agree that these markers should be removed. NatWest initially 
agreed with us to remove them (in January 2021)  but then, later, argued that they should 
stay in place because of the missed payments back in 2018  but I dont agree with that, as 
Mr Ms credit file should reflect the correct information  and simply put, he didnt fail to 
make the payments in question in 2020.
I can then see that NatWest continued to advise Mr M that the loan was in arrears. In 
June 2020, they advised him there were arrears of £195.34. I think the arrears quoted 
then were because of the overhang of the missed payments in 2018, but these were in 
part made up by the fact that Mr Ms parents paid more than needed  I can see that they 
paid £341.30 per month from March 2020 through until May 2021 (the last record Ive 
seen).But also  NatWest said to Mr M in their letters in July 2020 and August 2020  that 
payments were up to date. In July 2020 NatWest said I can also confirm that the loan 
payments you are making are satisfactory and you are adhering to the agreement and in 
August 2020 they said I can confirm that we have been receiving your loan payments on 
time. I can see how this must have been confusing for Mr M as he was then later 
advised - in May 2021  that there were arrears.
And the letter dated 17 May 2021 said the arrears as at 1 December 2020 were £5,857 
which reduced to £3,757 in May 2021. From what Ive seen  this cannot have been 
correct as there were only four payments of £250.17 missed in 2018 through to January 
2020. And NatWest had earlier told him the arrears were £195 in June 2020  and over-
payments had been maintained since then. I accept that this may have been due to poor 
formatting of the letter  but it must have been very confusing for Mr M to get it.
From the loan account statement Ive seen  and the fact that Ive seen evidence that 
monthly payments of £350 per month (as against the contractual payment of £250.17) 
have been made up to May 2021  the payments must now be up to date and should 
have made up for the arrears of £195 reported in June 2020. So, Ive considered whether 
the loan debt can be brought back from the DCA. NatWest say their process is that both 
accounts should remain at the DCA as one of them is in default (the overdraft). I dont 
agree  following a process doesnt always produce a fair outcome for customers, and I 
dont think it does here - so NatWest should bring the loan back from the DCA  and Mr M 
should continue to make the payments as he has been doing.
Lastly, Mr M wants his mother to have an authority to operate and discuss his account. 
NatWest have agreed to do this and the mechanics of doing that were set out in our 
investigators view in November 2021  so Mr M should follow those if he still wishes that 
to happen.
This has been a long-running complaint which NatWest couldve handled better. They 
didnt refund the charges on Mr Ms current account which theyd agreed to do, and they 
didnt advise the corrected lower balance to the CRAs. They wrongly marked Mr Ms credit 
file with three missed payments in 2020  when they werent missed. They agreed with us 
theyd remove the markers, but then - in August 2021  changed their mind and said theyd 
remain in place. So  the markers are still shown on Mr Ms credit file. And  there were 
several pieces of misleading communications.
And so  I think NatWest should refund the current account charges (as theyd agreed to 
do) and advise the correct balance to the CRAs. And  remove the missed payment 
markers from Mr Ms credit file for February 2020, March 2020, and May 2020. They 
should take back the loan account from the DCA  unless they can show that there are 
now arrears on the account.
I can appreciate that Mr M has been unreasonably treated by NatWest here and I consider
some compensation is due for this. We say an award of up to £300 might be suitable where 
there have been repeated small errors, or a larger single mistake, requiring a reasonable 
effort to sort out. Typically, the businesss actions could have resulted in some acute stress 
lasting hours  or a have had a milder impact across a few days, or even weeks. I think 
what happened here meets these criteria and I think NatWest should pay £300 for
distress and inconvenience. I also said that NatWest should:
Refund charges of £61.65 to the current account; Advise the correct current account 
balance to the DCA and CRAs; Remove the late payment markers for the loan account for 
February 2020, March 2020, and May 2020; Take back management of the loan account 
from the DCA; Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr M said:
Compensation of £500 was more appropriate for the hassle NatWest had caused 
him.
NatWest still hadnt amended his credit file.
NatWest agreed with the provisional decision, but also said:
Their process is that both debts are transferred to a debt collection agency and they 
cannot be split.
They said that Mr Ms personal loan is in arrears by £338 i.e. one payment.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr M has said. I carefully considered what the right amount of 
compensation would be and set that out on the provisional decision. Ive thought about that 
again and I still think it is right.
On the matter of amending Mr Ms credit file - this final decision, if accepted by Mr M is 
binding on NatWest to do that.
Ive considered what NatWest have told us about the up to date position on Mr Ms loan. 
They told us the balance is now down to £607.53 (as at 11 February 2022). But there is one 
months arrears of £338 within that. I did say that I would consider whether the loan debt 
should be brought back to NatWest from the debt collection agency. NatWest argue that as it 
is still in arrears, it should stay with the DCA alongside the current account - and that is their 
process. I think thats a sound argument for leaving the debt with the DCA  especially as 
the balance will be repaid after two more payments anyway. And so  I am dropping that 
remedy from the final decision.
Putting things right
But  other than the change as described, I am going to ask NatWest to do the things I set 
out in the provisional decision.
(Continued)
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc must:
 Refund charges of £61.65 to the current account.
 Advise the correct current account balance to the DCA and CRAs. Remove the late payment markers for the loan account for February 2020, 
 March 2020, and May 2020.
 Pay compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman