DRN-3025893
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc are holding her liable for a loan which she 
explains she didnt take out. Shed like the loan written off, removed from her credit file and 
compensation for the distress caused. 
What happened
In January 2020 a loan of £5,000 was taken out in Mrs As name with Sainsburys. 
The loan funds were paid into Mrs As account with another bank, Ill call Bank N, and then 
transferred to another account in Mrs As name, one of her ex-partners accounts and a 
small amount was also spent via some card present transactions. 
On 17 February 2020 Mrs A contacted Sainsburys to advise that the loan had been taken 
out without her consent by her ex-partner. 
Mrs A explained shed recently started a new relationship but when her ex-partner left she 
discovered hed carried out transactions without her consent and taken out credit cards and 
loan agreements in her name.
Mrs A advised that her ex-partner had been controlling and abusive, shed been in contact 
with a charity which supports victims of domestic abuse and also received support from a 
debt advice charity. 
Mrs A made contact with the other providers where shed experienced fraud, including 
Sainsburys credit card team, and all of the businesses agreed to write off the debt. And load 
her to a fraud prevention agency to protect her from further fraud. 
Sainsburys reviewed Mrs As complaint but didnt uphold it. They thought, on balance Mrs A 
likely consented to the loan  and therefore should be held liable for it.  
Mrs A wasnt happy with Sainsburys response, so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Mrs As response. In summary they thought that Mrs A 
didnt consent to taking out the loan. He recommended that Sainsburys write off the loan, 
remove any record of it from her credit file and pay £200 compensation for the distress 
caused. 
But Sainsburys didnt agree. In summary they said: 
Mrs As ex-partner needed to know her PIN to access her account with Bank N. 
Nectar details were provided to get a lower APR rate, why would a fraudster do this?
Mrs A discovered the fraud on 10 February 2020 but didnt report it to Bank N until 
17 February 2020. Its surprising that no fraud took place on Mrs As account with 
Bank N between 10 and 17 February 2020.
Mrs As ex-partner would have needed to access to her email  and theres no 
explanation for this. 
The money was transferred from Bank N to another account in Mrs As name. 
As Sainsburys didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A customer cant be held liable for a credit agreement they didnt consent to. So, I need to 
determine on balance whether Mrs A consented. Having done so I dont think Mrs A did  I 
say this because:
Ive seen a copy of the loan agreement signed on 7 January 2020. Within this 
document Mrs As correct date of birth, address and bank details (with Bank N) were 
provided. To take out a loan in Mrs As name her ex-partner needed to know these 
personal details. Mrs As ex-partner lived at her home address  and likely would 
have known some of the details and been able to find out the others. 
Ive listened to a phone call Mrs A had with Sainsburys in February 2020. 
Sainsburys have argued Mrs A has been inconsistent with her account but Im afraid 
I cant agree. In the circumstances with Mrs A experiencing domestic abuse from her 
ex-partner, I think Mrs As account has been consistent and detailed in terms of what 
she knew about her ex-partner. And how he might have committed the fraud  a 
victim of fraud isnt responsible, and wouldnt necessarily be aware, of exactly how a 
fraudster gained access to their security details. 
Sainsburys have highlighted that Mrs As email address was provided in the 
application  but with Mrs As ex-partner residing with her, and potentially having 
access to an old phone its plausible he gained access to her email address to submit 
applications for credit. Including this Sainsburys loan. 
The loan funds were paid into Mrs As account with Bank N  some were spent, and 
others were moved on to Mrs As account and another payee (likely Mrs As ex-
partner). Mrs As ex-partner would have needed access to her online banking details 
to access the loan payment  but Mrs A has explained that she shared them with her 
ex-partner under duress. Mrs A also advised Sainsburys, during a phone call, that 
her ex-partner previously moved funds from her account with Bank N to his accounts. 
Sainsburys have argued that Mrs As nectar details were provided when the loan 
was applied for and this enables a lower APR. Theyve also argued that the funds 
were kept in Mrs As account with Bank N for a month, and theyd have expected a 
fraudster to apply for the maximum possible amount. I understand Sainsburys 
arguments here and agree her ex-partner wouldnt benefit from a lower APR. But its 
not always possible to predict a fraudsters behaviour, and it isnt Mrs As 
responsibility to explain why her ex-partner made the decisions he did. 
Ive listened to the call Sainsburys had with Bank N. And in contrast to what 
Sainsburys have said  Im satisfied that within the call Bank N advised Sainsburys 
that Mrs A contacted Bank N on 17 February 2020  seven days after she discovered 
the fraud by her ex-partner. And reported some fraudulent transactions to 
Sainsburys. Mrs A didnt report the £5,000 loan payment as fraud  but considering 
shes reported the loan itself as fraudulent to Sainsburys, and the payment was a credit into Mrs As account, not out as most disputed transactions are, I dont think its 
surprising Mrs A didnt mention it to Bank N.
For the reasons Ive outlined above Im satisfied that Sainsburys arent entitled to hold Mrs A 
liable for the loan.  
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Mrs A has experienced distress after contacting Sainsburys about the loan 
in February 2020. And the bank could have acted much sooner in stopping interest charges 
and writing off the loan. I think the bank should compensate Mrs A £200 for the impact 
caused to her. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to: 
Write off the loan in Mrs As name
Remove any reference of the loan from Mrs As credit file
Pay Mrs A £200 compensation for the distress caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman