DRN-3605129
The complaint
Mr H with the help of a professional representative complains that Inter-UK Financial 
Services Limited (Inter-UK) are at fault for the losses he suffered from his pension. 
What happened
In February 2018, following a transfer to a SIPP Mr H met with Inter-UK to discuss his 
investment strategy going forward for his retirement plan.
Inter-UK recommended an Income Model Portfolio with SVS fund managers as the most 
suitable investment strategy based on his circumstances, attitude to risk, and objectives. 
However, it doesnt look like any other methods were discussed or even considered for Mr 
Hs funds. And in reality, Mr H was in fact invested in a different model portfolio with SVS, 
the Mixed Model Portfolio.
 
Mr Hs attitude to risk (ATR) was assessed as balanced or lowest-medium. It said Mr Hs 
preferred investments would be cash, cash-type assets, bonds, or UK commercial property, 
with typically fewer higher-risk investments such as UK and overseas shares.
The Financial planning questionnaire noted Mr H as being self-employed working as a 
courier and earning £1,000 per month net income (£15,000/year gross). His fund value was 
approximately £400,000, he had no other pensions or savings.
Mr H signed to agree to the fees charged by Inter-UK, a £1,500 initial fee for the advice and 
1% ongoing fee. The 1% ongoing fee was paid in return for a number of promised functions 
such as (but not limited to):
Professional expertise and governance embedded into our investment processes
Quarterly Portfolio Rebalancing
Quarterly valuations
Six monthly review meetings
Review of risk profile
Review of asset allocation (if required)
Updates and valuations
There is a message between Mr H and Inter-UK to say the investment in SVS had been 
delayed due to further due diligence checks. An account statement shows the Mixed Model 
Portfolio was setup for Mr H on 26 April 2018 and the investment split was approximately 
48% Fixed Income Holdings, 23% Smallcap holdings, 17% cash and 12% FTSE 350 
holdings. 
The Fixed Income Holdings were mainly in Corporate Bonds offering returns in interest of 
6.25% or more over a fairly short period of time between 3 and 5 years. These were not 
bonds from large recognisable firms and instead were listed on small exchanges (the 
majority on the Irish exchange) with very little information available about the structure and 
appear to be unregulated without recourse to the FSCS.
Later in 2019 SVS collapsed as the regulator had investigated it and blocked it from doing 
new business. The FCA had been in contact with SVS as early as January 2018 about the 
lack of due diligence, high concentration and liquidity risk of some of the bonds SVS had 
invested clients money in. Of particular concern were the Corporate Finance Bonds Ltd of 
which Mr H was invested in a number of different bonds relating to this firm.
Mr Hs representatives complain that Inter-UK Financial Services Limited shouldnt have 
recommended Mr H invest with SVS. They say even the most basic of due diligence 
wouldve discovered that the portfolios SVS were promoting were unsuitable for Mr H. 
Inter-UK in response have explained that it doesnt have any record of the due diligence 
done at the time as the business has changed hands. However, it believes due diligence 
wouldve been carried out. But it felt it wasnt a realistic expectation for it to have looked so 
closely into the arrangements within SVSs portfolios to discover conflicts of interests 
between SVS and the bond seller as argued by Mr Hs representatives.
Our investigator looked into matters and upheld the complaint he said that Inter-UK ought to 
have carried out due diligence on the SVS portfolios and had it done so, it wouldve seen 
that the investments within were not suitable for Mr H.
Inter-UK said that it wouldve applied the same due diligence to this DFM (SVS), as any 
other, but hasnt been able to evidence this because the record is no longer available. Inter-
UK states that in hindsight it is easier to say that extra due diligence was needed however 
SVS wouldve been treated as any other firm as they were FCA authorised (without 
restriction) at the time. And so on that basis it will have concluded that all threshold 
conditions were being met.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, I will be upholding this complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ill explain why, in more detail below.
Advisers responsibilities in terms of due diligence and outsourcing investment strategy was 
given a lot of attention in regulator updates and by May 2016 at the latest both the regulator 
and an industry body (the PFS) had made it clear that there was an obligation on an adviser 
to carry out research on any DFM recommended and look under the bonnet.
This included:
Looking into a current breakdown of assets in any proposed model portfolio
How the DFM manages those assets
To make sure its risk profile aligns with the DFMs and any recommended portfolio
Did it agree appropriate restrictions with the DFM about what the customer was and 
wasnt allowed to invest in
Look into how the DFM would typically invest for a certain attitude to risk
We dont have much evidence to say how Inter-UK and SVS interacted. The portfolio that 
was initially recommended by Inter-UK wasnt what was eventually used. And the suitability 
report is contradictory about whether it was the DFM or Inter-UKs risk rating that would be 
used to select a portfolio. Regardless, the adviser had a responsibility to act in their clients 
best interests and is responsible for what subsequently happened.This is especially true here as Mr H remained a client of Inter-UK after the advice had been 
given and paid fees for agreed services such as; Professional expertise and governance 
embedded into our investment processes, Review of risk profile and Review of asset 
allocation (if required).
As a minimum Inter-UK ought to have looked at SVSs portfolios and what was within them 
prior to recommending them to Mr H. And again as a minimum after the investment was put 
in place it shouldve checked the holdings within.
Had it done so it wouldve quickly become clear that both the portfolio it recommended and 
the holdings that Mr H actually ended up in were wholly unsuitable for the attitude to risk it 
had ascertained.
The makeup of the portfolio, even disregarding the fixed interest holdings, was clearly too 
high risk for Mr H. In its own suitability report Inter-UK had concluded that the majority of Mr 
Hs suitable investments would be cash, cash-type assets, bonds, or UK commercial 
property. Yet approximately 35% of his fund was invested in SmallCap holdings and 
FTSE350 holdings. SmallCap stocks tend to be volatile, with a high level of risk as they are 
less established firms often with shaky finances and often do not pay a dividend. Similarly 
many of the holdings within the FTSE 350 selection were of less established firms. These 
are not investments suitable for a low risk investor especially at the level invested within and  
even more so when you consider them alongside the rest of the portfolio.
The fixed interest holdings recommended were in the majority in a company called 
Corporate Finance Bonds Ltd. 
In 2017 the FCA had issued a notice advising that DFM arrangements were the new target 
for investment scams. So Inter-UK ought to have been aware of this and remained vigilant in 
its due diligence for this potential occurrence. And it appears that the bonds invested within 
here, meet the concerns raised by the FCA.
Regardless of this, Inter-UK ought to have done basic due diligence and had it done so, it 
wouldve been apparent that nearly 50% of Mr Hs funds invested within these bonds was 
unsuitable. I dont know what, if any, due diligence Inter-UK had carried out but its clear its 
approach to selecting the DFM didnt go far enough in terms of understanding the 
characteristics, balance or appropriateness of the holdings that were proposed and made for 
Mr Hs portfolio. It appears these bonds were Unregulated Collective Investment Schemes 
(UCIS), and certainly highly specialised and unregulated funds. There is evidence from other 
cases involving these bonds (and prior to the investment made by Mr H) about the notes on 
suitability and risk flagged in the literature associated with these specialist investments. With 
regards to the Corporate Finance Bonds Ltd that Mr H invested within, the wording below is 
typical of what was in the literature across the different bonds it offered. 
Suitability Prospective purchasers of the Notes of any Class should ensure that they 
understand the nature of such Notes and the extent of their exposure to risk, that they have 
sufficient knowledge, experience and access to professional advisers to make their own 
legal, tax, accounting and financial evaluation of the merits and risks of investment in such 
Notes and that they consider the suitability of such Notes as an investment in the light of 
their own circumstances and financial condition. Unlike a bank deposit, the Notes are not 
protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (the "FSCS") or any other 
government savings or deposit protection scheme. As a result, the FSCS will not pay 
compensation to an investor in the Notes upon the failure of the Issuer. If the Issuer goes out 
of business or becomes insolvent. Noteholders may lose all or part of their investment in the 
Notes. Mr H also had a holding in Angelfish Investments PLC  which Ive included an extract from:
The Preference Shares are complex financial instruments. Sophisticated institutional 
investors generally do not purchase complex financial instruments as stand-alone 
investments. They purchase complex financial instruments as a way to reduce risk or 
enhance yield with an understood, measured, appropriate addition of risk to their overall 
portfolios. A potential investor should only invest in the Preference Shares if they have the 
expertise (either alone or with a financial adviser) to evaluate how the Preference Shares will 
perform under changing conditions, the resulting effects on the value of the Preference 
Shares and the impact this investment will have on the potential investors overall investment 
portfolio.
Had Inter-UK looked into these investments it wouldve been very clear to it as a financial 
advisory service that these investments werent suitable for Mr H.
Even if it hadnt looked closely into them, it ought to have known that Corporate Bonds as a 
product (even within top firms  that these clearly were not) have inherent risk, are riskier 
than Government Bonds and have the potential for complete loss of funds.
I appreciate the investments made didnt match the portfolio originally recommended but 
regardless this point stands for both portfolios as whilst the percentage of holdings were 
different, the actual investments within were similar. And as Ive said above Inter-UK had a 
responsibility to look into Mr Hs investments after theyd been made as well.
The level of investment within the Corporate Bonds also meant there was a clear lack of 
diversification across Mr Hs portfolio that shouldve been apparent to Inter-UK. Especially 
when considering another 35% of Mr Hs funds were invested in what amounts to a high risk 
stock portfolio.
I think its clear Inter-UK failed in its duty to Mr H and it likely didnt carry out any due 
diligence or was aware that what SVS was selecting was high risk. And had they carried out 
their role correctly and acted in Mr Hs best interests, he wouldnt have suffered the losses 
he now has. So I think it needs to put things right for Mr H.
I appreciate there is a second party (SVS) involved here whos actions may have also played 
a part in Mr Hs losses. However, Im deciding the complaint against Inter-UK (not SVS) and 
Im satisfied that without their unsuitable advice in recommending SVS, Mr H wouldnt have 
suffered the losses that he has. 
From what Ive seen Inter-UK failed to do proper due diligence on SVS to ensure they fully 
understood their investment strategy and whether it was appropriate for Mr Hs 
circumstances. If they had done so, I think they ought to have realised that SVSs investment 
strategy included speculative investments which likely werent suitable for Mr H. So in the 
circumstances of this case I consider it fair and reasonable that Inter-UK compensates Mr H 
for all his losses. 
Putting things right
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr H should be put as closely as possible into the position he would 
probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice.I take the view that Mr H would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr H's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Inter-UK do?
To compensate Mr H fairly, Inter-UK must:
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Inter-UK should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Inter-UK should pay into Mr H's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Inter-UK is unable to pay the total amount into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay 
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr H wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Inter-UK deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr H how much has been taken off. Inter-UK should give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr H asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SVS Mixed 
Model 
PortfolioNo longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual valueThis means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SVS Mixed Model Portfolio should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Inter-UK totals all those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr H wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr H's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the 
business to pay the balance.
Inter-UK Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr H in a 
clear, simple format.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Inter-UK Financial Services 
Limited should pay Mr H the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of 
£160,000 plus any interest on the amount set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Inter-UK Financial Services Limited pays Mr H the 
balance plus any interest on the amount as set out above.
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Inter-UK 
Financial Services Limited. It is unlikely that Mr H can accept my decision and go to court to 
ask for the balance. Mr H may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Inter-UK Financial Services Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2023.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman