 Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out to cover the 
payments on a mortgage in 2006. The policy covered Mr W only. Ms N and Mr W say 
Santander UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms N and Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Ms N and Mr Ws mortgage started in 2001 and this PPI policy started in 2007, although 
Santanders records show the sale actually took place in late 2006 by phone.
When selling the PPI, Santander had to make it clear to Ms N and Mr W that they had a 
choice about it. But Ms N and Mr W say they were told they needed the PPI and understood 
that it was a necessity.
Santander has sent us a copy of the call script it says was in use in sales calls at the time. 
And this instructs the advisor to ask the customer if they want the PPI.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the needs analysis carried out during the phone call 
with Mr W and the subsequent recommendation letter. These shows Mr W said he wouldnt 
be able to pay the mortgage payments and related bills if he was unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment and wanted to protect against these risks. 
They also show the advisor recommended PPI to Mr W, Mr W was told of the cost, accepted 
the recommendation and wanted to take out the PPI.
Santander has also sent us a copy of the PPI welcome letter sent to Mr W, which shows the 
cost of the policy and mentions his right for cancel it.
Based on the evidence I have, and what I understand about Santanders sales practices at 
the time, I think its likely Santander did make it clear to Ms N and Mr W that they had a 
choice about the PPI. While Santander recommended the PPI to Ms N and Mr W, I cant see 
anything which suggests the PPI is compulsory. And Ms N and Mr W were aware made they 
could cancel the policy. So I think its likely they chose to take it, knowing they didnt have to.
As Santander recommended the PPI to Ms N and Mr W, it had to check that it was right for 
them. And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, Mr W doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
DRN-1057743the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than Ms N and Mr W have told us 
Mr W wouldve been entitled to sick pay. And it wouldve meant they didnt need to rely on 
any savings they had to make their mortgage repayments if Mr W wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Santander had to give Ms N and Mr W clear 
information about the PPI. Its possible the information it gave them wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But a mortgage is a serious financial commitment, and Ms N and Mr Ws 
property couldve been at risk if theyd failed to make their repayments. So I think they 
couldve found the protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think 
it was right for them, it seems like the PPI would have been useful for Ms N and Mr W if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have put Ms N and Mr W off taking it out.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms N and 
Mr W.
But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms N and Mr W because:
 Santander got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Ms N and Mr W about that. Because Santander didnt
tell Ms N and Mr W, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms N and Mr W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Ms N and Mr W  any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 November 2019.
Alan Millward
Ombudsman