DRN-2876678
The complaint
Mr S complains Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) delayed the transfer of his 
pension causing him a financial loss. 
What happened
Mr S held a group personal pension plan with Standard Life which he had decided to transfer 
to his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) held with a third-party provider.
On 20 April 2020, the process was started using the Origo online transfer payment
System. Standard Lifes process is to obtain authority where the is a 5% tolerance difference 
in funds. This applied to Mr Ss transfer and so it sought authority to commence the process.
Standard Life says it received the required authority and instruction to transfer on Friday 15 
May 2020 and acted upon on Wednesday 20 May 2020, 3 working days later. The transfer 
was processed using the unit price on 15 May 2020.
Standard Life say they used the good to go date to calculate the transfer. This is the date it 
had everything it needed to proceed (15 May 2020).  It points to its service level agreement 
that transfers will be completed within 5 working days. The transfer went ahead within 3 
working days and so it feels it completed the transfer in a timely manner.
Mr S remains unhappy because the unit price was higher on 20 May and yet Standard Life 
used the unit price from the 15 May which was a lower value. He says as a result he 
incurred a financial loss.
An investigator looked into things for Mr S. He found that Standard Life had acted within the 
terms of its policies and procedures which allowed for a 5 working day window. It had 
applied its policy of a forward pricing date, which actually meant the date used for the 
calculation was Monday 18 May (the next working day after 15 May 2020) and this was 
consistent with its process. He accepted on this occasion the unit value was higher and Mr B 
could have benefitted from the higher unit price, but equally it could have been a lower unit 
price. He found Standard Life had acted fairly and reasonably and didnt ask it to do anything 
further.
Mr S disagreed. He still feels had the transfer been expedited he would have benefited from 
investing in a rising market with his third-party provider. He asks for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr S and by Standard Life.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I appreciate the knowledge that the unit price was higher on 20 May is disconcerting for Mr 
S. I can understand why he would have preferred the transfer to go ahead using the actual 
date Standard Life processed the transfer. I dont think Mr S would be raising this issue if the 
unit price had been lower and I can see why he feels Standard Life should apply a best 
price approach.
My role is to consider whether Standard Life have acted fairly and reasonably. Im 
persuaded that it has, and Ill explain why.
I have looked carefully at the information provided by Standard Life and considered both the 
forward pricing policy and the good to go date alongside the service level agreement of 
processing transfers within a 5 working day window.
Standard Life is bound by its regulatory responsibility to treat all customers fairly and apply 
its own policies and procedures consistently. It isnt my role to comment on the policies and 
procedures themselves.
In this case Standard Life has said it operates up to a 5 working day service level agreement 
to allow it to flex according to demand and resources. My experience is that this is fairly 
usual within the industry and in this case, it acted within 3 working days, so Im satisfied it 
met its own service level agreement and acted fairly and reasonably in doing so.
The good to go date was the 15 May 2020 but as this was a Friday, the forward pricing 
date took it to Monday 18 May 2020, the next available working day.  When Standard Life 
picked up the transfer, having missed the actual date it applies the date the transfer was 
good to go and uses the pricing that would have applied. In this case that was the 18 May 
2020. In my view, this is a fair principle to take and it can result in higher or lower values 
applying depending on the volatility of funds pricing, but it is a consistent process.
In this case the unit price would have been higher had it applied a later date, but it then 
wouldnt have been consistent in the application of its policies and procedures.
I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed, but Im satisfied Standard Life has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the application of its policies and procedures and as such I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman