DRN-1101577
Complaint
Ms C says Provident Personal Credit Limited (Provident) irresponsibly provided her with 
unaffordable loans.                           
Background
As I understand it, Provident provided five home collected credit loans to Ms C between 
March 2008 and March 2010. And Ms C's account was sold on to a third-party debt 
purchaser in August 2014.
Provident agreed that it shouldnt have provided loans 3 to 5 to Ms C. It is my understanding 
that Ms C agreed with the conclusions on which loans it was unfair to provide her with. But 
she disputes the amount of compensation offered. As the parties have been unable to agree 
on a resolution, the complaint was passed to me for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending - including the key relevant rules, 
guidance, good industry practice and how we generally ask lenders to put things right - on 
our website. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
As the parties are in agreement about which loans should and shouldnt have been provided, 
I dont need to look at what happened at the time the respective decisions to lend to Ms C 
were made. I simply need to decide what needs to happen in order for Provident to put 
things right in a fair and reasonable way. 
Having considered matters Ive seen no obvious reason to depart from our standard 
approach to putting things right where we find a lender unfairly provided credit. So I think 
that Provident should put things right in the way I set out below and the amount arrived at as 
a result of the steps taken represents a fair and reasonable resolution to Ms C's complaint.
Putting things right  what Provident needs to do
refund all interest and charges Ms C paid, whether to Provident or the third-party 
debt purchaser, on loans 3 to 5. Provident needs to ensure that Ms C is the position 
she'd be in if she only repaid the amount she was lent - so any extra over and above 
this should be returned to her;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, charges and 
overpayments from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
 remove any adverse information recorded about loans 3 to 5, where it remains, from 
Ms Cs credit file;
 
provide Ms C with an explanation and breakdown of how it arrived at the amount of 
compensation due to her.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident to take off tax from this interest. Provident 
must give Ms C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Provident Personal Credit Limited should put things right for 
Ms C in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman