DRN-2809887
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Ms A and Mr A took out in 2009 on the advice and 
recommendation of a mortgage broker. Responsibility for the brokers advice, and the 
complaint about it, rest with A Youngson (Turriff) Limited (AYTL).
The essence of the complaint is that Ms A and Mr A say the mortgage was unsuitable for 
its nominal purpose (funding the conversion of a derelict building into a residential 
property for Ms A and Mr A to occupy) because the money was actually used to acquire 
the property from Mrs A, who has since died. 
Ms A and Mr A never had enough money to complete the building project, and have 
subsequently struggled to sell the plot. They say theyre stuck with a useless and 
unaffordable mortgage. The complaint has been brought jointly by Ms A and Mr A, but all 
of our dealings have been with Ms A.
What happened
The main facts of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them in 
detail here; not least because many of the circumstances are a little out of the ordinary and 
not commonplace. Our decisions are published and its important that I dont include any 
information that might result in Ms A and/or Mr A being identified. Instead Ill give a brief 
summary in my own words and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont 
mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome of the complaint. 
Ms A and Mr A applied for a mortgage with a lender Ill call L. AYTLs broker arranged the 
mortgage after meeting with Ms A, Mr A and Mrs A. Around two-thirds of the money was 
released immediately, ostensibly to cover the cost of weather-proofing the building. Ls 
mortgage offer specified how the remaining funds would be released in stages as the build 
progressed; it also said that work must start within six months. 
In fact, no work was ever carried out on the building project; thats because the money L 
released initially was paid to Mrs A for the purchase of the plot. The remaining funds from 
the mortgage couldnt be released without building work being progressed, and Ms A and 
Mr A had no money to pay builders to do any work. Theyve been in limbo ever since, 
struggling with the mortgage payments and unable, thus far, to sell the plot.
Ms A started this complaint in 2019, but told us shed known since about 2012 that there was 
a problem. Mr A joined the complaint after it was referred to us.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority; nor are we 
a consumer protection body. Were an alternative dispute resolution body; an informal 
alternative to the courts for financial businesses and their customer to resolve their 
differences. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The party responsible for assessing whether the mortgage was affordable or not is the 
lender, L. However, this complaint is about what AYTL did or didnt do; Ive no brief to 
consider the actions of L. 
In this decision I have looked at the sale of the mortgage (in terms of what was regarded as 
good industry practice at the relevant time) and considered generally whether AYTL did 
anything wrong when the mortgage was taken out. In doing that, I can give no regard to the 
regulatory standards in place now, or to any hindsight that the intervening years might have 
brought.
If the available evidence is incomplete (not unusual in a case such as this where the sale 
happened so long ago) and/or contradictory, we reach our findings on what we consider is 
most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test 
that the courts use in civil cases.
Its for us to assess the reliability of evidence and deciding how much weight should be 
attached to it. When doing that, we dont just consider individual documents in isolation. We 
consider everything together to form a broader opinion on the whole picture. 
The starting point here is normally the point-of-sale documentation. The value of such 
documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what was said and 
agreed at the relevant time. Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always possible information 
might be recorded incorrectly; indeed, Ms A has challenged the accuracy of what was 
captured at the time. 
But its typically more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance of time 
which, although given in good faith, can sometimes be inaccurate or contradictory. So unless 
theres a compelling reason to believe the information is inaccurate, well generally attach 
some weight to it. 
Incidentally, on Ms As point that AYTLs point of sale documents might not be reliable, its 
worth observing that, in the normal course of events, we would have been barred from 
considering this complaint under our rules, due to the amount of time thats gone by since 
the events complained about. Were only able to look into the complaint because AYTL 
consented to us doing so. It seems to me that if AYTL had any concerns that its evidence 
might not stand up to scrutiny, it would have been much easier simply to refuse consent to 
us considering the complaint.
The complaints actually a lot simpler than its been made to look; the outcome of it turns on 
one question. That is; did AYTLs broker know when submitting the mortgage application to 
L that the money being borrowed would be paid to Mrs A and not used to fund building work? The broker says she didnt know, but Ms A and Mr A did; hinting that a fraud may 
have taken place.
Ms A and Mr A reject that emphatically, saying the broker knew the money would be paid to 
Mrs A because she was, in effect, working in league with Mrs A. That being so, it becomes 
one partys word against another, and the point of sale documentation is of limited help to 
me in deciding whose testimony I should attach greater weight to.
Ultimately when considering any complaint like this, as Ms A and Mr A are the ones bringing 
the complaint against AYTL, for me to uphold the complaint requires Ms A and Mr As 
version of events to be more likely than AYTLs, not just as likely. Having considered 
everything before me presently, neither version of events strikes me as being any more 
plausible than the other. To put it another way, I cant say Ms A and Mr As case is anything 
more than, at best, just as likely as AYTLs, which isnt enough for me to uphold their 
complaint.
It may be that the circumstances of this case make it better suited to being heard in court, 
where all parties can give evidence under oath, and have that evidence tested under cross 
examination. To assist in getting to the bottom of things, a court can also compel evidence 
from third parties, which this service cannot do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman