DRN-3440982
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as T has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned 
down its loss of revenue claim. 
Mr W, a director of T, has brought the complaint on Ts behalf through a representative. For 
ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and comments of the representative as being those of 
T. 
What happened
T held a Self Catering Insurance for Property Owner policy with Allianz. T claimed on the 
policy for loss of revenue after its business was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments 
response to the pandemic. 
Allianz turned down Ts claim. They said the interruption to Ts business hadnt been caused 
by damage and while the policy covered a specified list of illnesses, Covid-19 wasnt one of 
the illnesses listed. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, T brought its complaint to our service. It thought that 
various parts of the policy should provide cover. 
Our investigator looked into Ts complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of Ts claim. 
T asked for an ombudsmans decision in relation to the extension in its policy which covers 
defects in sanitary arrangements.
T said the dictionary definition of sanitation was conditions relating to Public Health. It said 
its premises werent allowed to open as people couldnt safely socially distance within them. 
T said that this is a sanitary arrangement and therefore the inability to maintain social 
distancing was a defect in its sanitary arrangements. It referred to the judges comments in 
Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & AXA Insurance 
Designated Activity Company [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield) in support of why its claim 
should be covered under this extension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
T has made a number of detailed points. While Ive considered them all, Im not going to
address them all in this decision but will instead focus on what I see as the central issues to
this complaint. As T has also asked for a decision on the extension relating to sanitary 
arrangements I will focus on that in my decision. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ts business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if Allianz have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Ts claim.
The relevant part of the extension relating to sanitary arrangements says that Allianz will 
cover any claim resulting from interruption or interference with Ts business in consequence 
of:
any accident causing defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the 
Premises
         
          which causes restrictions on the use of the Premises on the order or advice of the    
competent local authority.
T said that its premises closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained. 
However, I dont think the restrictions imposed by the Government would reasonably be 
considered an accident which caused a defect in Ts sanitary arrangements and I dont think 
that an inability to social distance is a defect in Ts sanitary arrangements.
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, the case of
Brushfield, as T has specifically referred to it. This case took place in the Irish courts so, as T
says, this is not binding on English courts. However, I dont think the judges comments in
Brushfield mean that Ts claim should be paid.
The judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves some element of
deficiency or fault. I havent seen anything to persuade me there was any deficiency or fault
in Ts sanitary arrangements. Im not persuaded that the normal operation of a business can
be called a defect, and certainly not a defect specific to Ts premises which led to its closure. 
Moreover, even if I accepted that an inability to social distance was a defect in Ts sanitary 
arrangements, I havent seen anything to persuade me that this was caused by an accident. 
I also I havent been provided with any evidence to persuade me that it was the
circumstances at Ts premises in particular that led to the Governments decision to 
introduce the restrictions it did. For these reasons, I dont think this extension covers Ts
claim.
I recognise this isnt the answer T was hoping for but, having considered things very 
carefully, I cant fairly require Allianz to pay Ts claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman