DRN-4488387
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt fully settled a claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs S sustained a serious injury to her leg whilst abroad. When she was well enough to 
return Aviva arranged flights home. Mr and Mrs S were reassured they were booked into 
business class. 
When they arrived at the airport it became apparent that only Mrs S was booked into 
business class. It wasnt possible to book another business class seat, so Mr and Mrs S took 
the two remaining seats in first class and paid for them. They contacted Aviva who told them 
to keep the receipts and make a claim. Aviva then refused to pay for the upgrade as they 
didnt think it was medically necessary. Mr and Mrs S complained but Aviva maintained their 
decision was fair. They offered Mr and Mrs S £300 compensation for the incorrect 
information they were given.
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She didnt think Aviva needed to pay for 
the upgrade because there was no evidence it was medically necessary for Mr S to be 
seated with Mrs S. She explained that there was no cover for their original return flights 
under the policy as Aviva had arranged alternative flights.
Mr and Mrs S explained they did contact Aviva from the airport when they realised the 
situation and reiterated theyd been told by Aviva they would both be travelling in business 
class. Our investigator listened to the relevant calls, but they didnt change her thoughts 
about the overall outcome of the complaint. She noted that Mr and Mrs S had already 
purchased the upgrade to first class when they contacted Aviva. 
Mr and Mrs S asked an ombudsman to review their complaint. So, I need to make a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say there is no cover for: 
The cost of the original return travel to the UK if weve paid for alternative transport 
for the insured person to return home. 
There is cover for: 
Associated expenses
i. The necessary travel and accommodation costs for a person who has to stay 
with the insured person or travel to be with the insured person, where we 
agree this is necessary. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint because: 
As Aviva arranged a return flight for Mr and Mrs S there is no requirement for them to 
cover the cost of their return flight. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
direct them to pay this outside of the policy terms. 
Theres no dispute Mr and Mrs S were incorrectly told they were both booked into 
business class. So, I can understand why it was frustrating and upsetting to find this 
wasnt the case when they arrived at the airport. However, Aviva has offered £300 
compensation for the incorrect information being given and I think that fairly reflects 
the impact of the loss of expectation and the additional stress this caused 
Mr and Mrs S. 
Mr and Mrs S had booked the first-class seats before they spoke to Aviva at the 
airport. I understand why, as Mrs S explained there were only two spaces left. But I 
cant fairly conclude they took this course of action because of information they were 
given by Aviva as thats a decision theyd already taken. 
Ive carefully considered everything Mr and Mrs S have said, including what theyve 
said about what a difficult and stressful experience this was. But theres no medical 
evidence which indicates it was necessary for Mr S to be seated with Mrs S. I can 
entirely understand why that would have been their preference. But I cant fairly say 
that was necessary on the basis of the evidence thats been provided.   
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 to Mr and Mrs S to settle the 
complaint and I think thats fair in all the circumstances. 
My final decision is that Aviva Insurance Limited should pay £300 to Mr and Mrs S if it hasnt 
done so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman