DRN-3232858
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviation And Tech Ltd trading as albrate.com (Albrate) failed to pay 
him owed repayments on a peer-to-peer loan he held on its platform. Hes also unhappy with 
the recovery action Albrate took to recuperate his invested money. 
What happened
At the time of Mr Ss complaint, Albrate provided a loan-based crowdfunding facility through 
a peer-to-peer platform in which investors could lend to borrowers in return for interest. 
Albrate provided information regarding investment opportunities by way of borrowing 
proposals which investors could read before selecting which loans they wanted to invest in.
Mr S invested around £500 into a loan with a brewing company, which I shall refer to as 
Company A, through Albrates platform in October 2017. The total loan was for £600,000 
for a term of 36 months and intended to pay 14% interest per annum. The loan was set up to 
be amortising, meaning monthly repayments were to include both interest and capital. The 
borrowing proposal explained Company A would use the loan for refinancing purposes, as 
well as to provide funding for the acquisition of further brewing equipment assets to grow its 
brewing capabilities. 
The borrowing proposal explained the following security would be in place for the loan:
   A debenture over Company A which holds the assets and operating income of the 
business activities.
A cross guarantee provided by a guarantor, I shall refer to as Company B, with a 
net worth in excess of £3,000,000.
A cross guarantee provided by another guarantor, I shall refer to as Company C, 
with a net worth in excess of £1,700,000.
A chattels mortgage provided over all the assets of Company A.
A personal guarantee from an individual with a net worth in excess of 
£1,000,000.
Problems with repayments on the loan began in September 2018 and Albrate 
provided investors with an update in its December 2018 addendum. The addendum 
explained that Company A was part of a large entertainment venue and pub group, 
which I will refer to as the Group. The Group had been purchasing beer from 
Company A, however, an administrator had been appointed for the Group in October 
2018 and this meant that Company A was no longer in a position to service the loan 
on an amortising basis for the agreed three year period. Albrate explained that it had 
considered realising the security for the loan but it had concerns that this could result 
in only a partial repayment of the capital and so it decided to restructure the loan in 
the following manner:
The loan term was marginally adjusted from 36 months to 37 months.
The lender rate was reduced from 14% to 8% p.a. 
The loan was converted to an interest only loan with a bullet repayment at maturity.
Albrate also explained that it would be reducing its platform fees from Company A by around 
85% to provide maximum repayment for investors. The addendum explained that Company 
A was confident it could continue to operate its business under this new reduced level of 
debt. The addendum also added that Octobers loan repayment would remain outstanding 
and Novembers payment had been received at the new restructured level. Finally, the 
addendum explained that if Mr S was unhappy with the restructuring of the loan, he could 
exit from the loan by selling his part of the loan on its secondary market. Mr S didnt elect to 
sell his loan part and remained invested. 
Albrate provided a further update in its May 2019 addendum. The addendum explained that 
as part of the administration process for the Group, a new company, I shall refer to as 
Company B had acquired the majority of the Group, including Company A in April 2019. As 
a result, Albrate explained that the loan would be restructured again in the following way:
The loan term was increased from 37 months to 66 months.
The lender rate was reverted to 14% p.a. 
The loan was converted into a ten-year amortising profile but with a four-year term 
and a bullet repayment at its maturity.
Albrate also explained that it would be completely removing its platform fees charged to 
Company A. The addendum explained that the initial loan was drawn down in October 2017 
and had been amortising monthly until October 2018. Since then interest-only payments had 
been made at the level of 8% p.a. The capital balance and outstanding interest payments (at 
the 14% p.a rate between October 2018 and March 2019) had been capitalised for the 
restructured loan, therefore the interest only payments received between November and 
March are to be viewed as interim bonus interest payments for lenders.
Albrate also explained that it would be completely removing its platform fees charged to 
Company A. The addendum explained the capital balance and outstanding interest 
payments (at the 14% p.a rate between October 2018 and March 2019) had been 
capitalised for the restructured loan. Therefore, the interest only payments received between 
November 2018 and March 2019 were to be viewed as interim bonus interest payments for 
investors, with the first payment being back dated to 27 April 2019 and being paid within a 
couple of days of the update.
A further update was provided in Albrates October 2019 addendum. In this, Albrate 
explained that Company B had conducted a review of Company A and decided that, for the 
protection of the core business and other creditors, it could no longer support Company A. 
As such, Albrate said it would look to sell the assets of Company A to recuperate some 
funds for investors. However, Albrate explained it expected there to be a substantial loss on 
the remaining capital of the outstanding loan due to likely costs associated with removing the 
assets and that the personal guarantor had been declared bankrupt.
Albrate provided a final update in its February 2020 addendum explaining it had worked with 
the landlord for Company As premises to dispose of assets and sold the brewing 
equipment. The net result of the sales was £45,000. The update explained that there was a 
total loss of £278,000 on the loan. This meant that Mr S wasnt paid back his full capital and 
missed out on expected interest.  
Mr S complained to Albrate as he felt he hadnt received the full amount of interest payments 
paid by Company A to Albrate, nor did he receive the full capital hed invested in the loan. 
He also queried why Albrate hadnt sought to recover any shortfall on the loan from the 
personal guarantor and their assets. 
Albrate didnt uphold Mr S complaint. In summary, it said:Risk warnings regarding capital being at risk were provided to Mr S before investing.
Albrate said it believed that it performed its duties correctly in pursuit of Company A, 
in negotiating the sale of the assets and correctly liaising with the trustee in 
bankruptcy as to the bankruptcy of the personal guarantor.
Its platform automatically distributes interest it receives from borrowers to investors 
account and does so on a prorated basis on how much an individual investor has lent 
on a loan. This means its system cannot be biased to one lender over another and 
Mr S had been paid the correct level of repayments received from Company A. 
The final payment became due from the sale of the assets of the business. Albrate 
had pursued, at its own expense, other options but the landlord of the facility where 
the brewery was housed did not wish to continue the premises as a brewery so it 
made an agreement to sell the assets of the business. The final payment was 
£45,000 and was paid out in February 2020 with each lender, including Mr S, 
receiving their prorated amount of the payment. Interest was capitalised for this final 
payment, but Mr S has refused to accept that this does not make any difference to 
the final settlement payment received. This is because all lenders had the interest 
capitalised on a prorated basis and so this had no bearing on the final settlement of 
the loan. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the response he received from Albrate, so he referred his complaint 
to this service for an independent review.
One of investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. In short, 
she said:
Albrate worked with Company A and later Company B to try and protect investors 
from the fall out of the Group going into administration. 
She was satisfied Albrate kept Mr S updated throughout with notifications of the 
addendums.
The recovered amount was much lower than the valuations due to complications with 
the landlord around unpaid debt, access to the assets and pressure to remove the 
assets from the premises.
As such, it was fair for Albrate to accept the offer to purchase the assets for 
£100,000.
Albrate pursued the personal guarantor but they were declared bankrupt.
She didnt think Mr S was owed any payments as interest was capitalised which 
didnt make any difference to the final settlement amount he received. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings. In summary, he said:
Albrate couldve recovered more money by taking possession the brewing equipment 
and stock much earlier than it did. 
Whilst Albrate did provide risk warnings it didnt specify that he could lose over 90% 
of his investment.
The valuation of the assets must have been inaccurate for them to be sold for less 
than £50,000.
He was also unhappy that both Albrate and the investigator had failed to fully explain 
why he had missing payments. He said the loan was amortising until October 2018 
and so he should have received a capital and interest payment at the end of that 
month, but Albrate failed to pay this. 
He also hadnt received payments in May and June 2019 in accordance with 
Albrates addendums.The investigator considered Mr S further comments but it didnt change her opinion. She 
explained that the October 2018 missing payment was capitalised and so wasnt due to be 
paid to him that month. She also said Albrate had made her aware of a system error which 
resulted in the repayments section of his account recording that three payments of payments 
of £14.89 had been paid which was incorrect. 
As no agreement could be reached, Mr S asked for an ombudsman to reach a decision on 
his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that Ive considered all of Mr S detailed submissions. However, I 
hope he doesnt take it as discourtesy that Ive not addressed every point he has made in 
support of his complaint. Ive concentrated my findings on what I believe to be the crux of his 
complaint. Much of this complaint concerns Albrates actions in relation to the administration 
of the loan, specifically surrounding defaulting the loan and recovery action, as well as the 
valuations of Company As assets and payments which Mr S feels hes entitled to but hasnt 
been paid. 
Regulatory framework 
At the time of promoting the loan to Company A, Albrate was authorised and regulated by 
the FCA. The relevant rules and regulations FCA regulated firms are required to follow are 
set out in the FCAs Handbook of rules and guidance. 
The FCA Principles for Business (PRIN) set out the overarching requirements which all 
authorised firms are required to comply with. PRIN 1.1.1G, says The Principles apply in 
whole or in part to every firm. 
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. The most relevant principles here are: 
PRIN 2.1.1R (2) A firm must conduct its business with due skill, care and diligence.
PRIN 2.1.1R (6) A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. 
PRIN 2.1.1R (7) A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, 
and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading. 
Albrate was also required to act in accordance with the rules set out in the Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS). And the most relevant obligations here are: 
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its client. 
COBS 4.2.1R (1) A firm must ensure that a communication or a financial promotion 
is fair, clear and not misleading. 
Ive considered these relevant rules and regulations when reaching my decision.
Loan recovery action
Mr S has raised several points regarding the recovery action Albrate took on the loan with 
Company A. The starting point is to look at what the parties agreed under the lender terms. These terms explained that Albrate would act as Mr S agent in relation to administrative 
duties for the loan, including making any amendments to the loan contract:
6.8 You agree that Ablrate will be acting as agent on your behalf in 
(a) negotiating and agreeing any amendments to the Loan Contract; and 
(b) entering into the amendment to the Key Contract Terms, in accordance 
with clause 6.6. 
6.9 You hereby appoint Ablrate (and any assigns for the duration of your membership 
of Ablrate) as your agent with full power and capacity to carry out those amendments 
without your specific agreement. You will then be bound by those changes. You 
agree and acknowledge that Ablrate shall take on no liabilities, obligations or rights 
under the Loan Contract as a result of such agency, and you agree that you will 
continue to be solely liable for and responsible for the rights and obligations under 
the Loan Contract (as amended).
The lender terms also explained what action Albrate could take in the event of missed 
payments:
Payments 
12.1 You agree that in the event of missed payments on a loan Ablrate will take the 
administrative steps set out in clauses 12.2 to 12.4 below on your behalf. In certain 
circumstances, we may act outside and/or ahead of the following process to pursue 
missed payments or loans (whether or not in formal default) where we consider this 
to be in the best interests of lenders.
These administrative steps included continuing to chase for payments or placing the loan 
into default. But clearly, Albrate could take alternative action if it considered this to be in 
investors best interest. Albrate decided to make made several amendments to loan contract 
when Company A failed to make loan repayments on time, which it was entitled to do under 
the lender terms. I understand that Mr S says Albrate could have recovered more money for 
investors if it had taken possession of Company As assets and sold them sooner. However, 
its unclear whether this would have resulted in Mr S being financially better off. The 
amendments to the loan allowed for some capital and interest repayments to continue and 
there are risks involved in defaulting a loan, which the lender terms and investment brochure 
made Mr S aware of. The lender terms explained that in the event of defaulting the loan, a 
collections agency may be engaged which could result in a large amount of the money 
recovered being deducted from the final amount investors receive. These terms also 
explained that the existence of assets doesnt guarantee repayment in the event of failure by 
the borrower in meeting its payments. The following risk warning was also provided in the 
investment brochure:
In the unlikely event that Ablrate is unable to continue in business, a third party 
would continue to administer the outstanding loans []. Although we aim to have a 
Service Fee in many of the loans on the platform which should cover the costs of 
administrating loans, third party administration of loans may incur increased costs to 
Lenders (where none existed previously). This could materially impact the return 
available on loans.
Its important to consider that, as well as having a responsibility to investors, Albrate also 
had consumer credit responsibilities to Company A and so it needed to consider both partys 
interests when agreeing any action. 
Ultimately, Albrate was able to take what action it deemed was most appropriate under the 
lender terms Mr S agreed to. Albrate explained in its updates to Mr S why it felt amending the loan contract was the most appropriate action to take. Ive not seen anything which 
suggests the actions it took where unfair or unreasonable in the circumstances. Its clear 
Albrate explored several avenues to deliver the best outcome for investors before eventually 
defaulting the loan and Im not persuaded defaulting earlier would have resulted in a better 
outcome for Mr S. 
On a final note, Mr S has also questioned why failed to recover any shortfall on the loan from 
the personal guarantor. Albrate has provided a copy of the bankruptcy order it made against 
the personal guarantor dated 16 May 2019 and so Im satisfied took appropriate recovery 
action in relation to the personal guarantor.
Company As assets valuation
Mr S has questioned how little money Albrate was able to recover from Company A when it 
eventually defaulted the loan. And whilst I appreciate Mr S disappointment, I dont think 
Albrate has acted unfairly. 
The investment brochure explained the following in regard to the security for the loan and 
Company As assets:
The primary form of security for the loan is a Company debenture. The valuation of 
this security is driven by the performance of the companys assets. The Companys 
current asset base of brewery equipment and fittings is valued at £497,000, it is the 
Companys intention to use the balance of the loan proceeds having refinanced the 
acquisition loan to purchase additional brewery equipment adding direct value to the 
asset base of the company.
Albrate had a regulatory responsibility to ensure that any information it provided to promote 
the loan was clear, fair and not misleading. And it also needed to be satisfied that by 
approving the promotion and allowing its customers to invest in the loan, it would be acting in 
its clients best interests. In order to satisfy itself of the fair, clear and not misleading 
information in the investment brochure, Albrate would need to carry out reasonable checks 
of the information within it. Albrate has provided a copy of the valuation report for Company 
A which was produced by an external valuer who was professionally qualified (as a member 
of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors). The valuation report detailed the assets of 
Company A as being valued at £504,250, of which the £497,000 listed in the investment 
brochure was made up of the brewery plant and machinery (£450,000) and beer casks 
(£47,000). I think the information Albrate received from the independent professionally 
qualified surveyor was sufficient to say it took appropriate steps in its due diligence to ensure 
that the information it provided on the value of the assets wasnt misleading.
Unfortunately, when Albrate defaulted the loan and tried to recover money for investors, the 
assets werent realised for their original valuations. It appears that the complications faced 
with the landlord of Company As brewing premises had a substantial impact on the 
realisation of the assets. Albrate made Mr S aware of these complications and I dont think 
its necessary to go into any further detail here. Clearly these complications were unforeseen 
and so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Albrate responsible for any financial 
loss Mr S has incurred as a result of these. Furthermore, the lender terms explained that 
Albrate isnt under any obligation to sell the assets at the value provided in the valuation:
12.5 Where there is an asset involved in the loan transaction: 
[](b) upon recovery of the business asset or assets, and failing any full settlement of all 
liabilities due by the borrower the security agent may, as legal title holder of the 
business assets, elect to sell the asset or assets at such price that it deems fit. In 
such circumstances, any asset valuation report provided as described in clause 11.2 
above will be indicative of the value of the business asset or assets only and any 
realisation or sale proceeds in connection with the sale of such asset or assets may 
be lower (or higher) than the value set out in such asset valuation report. The 
security agent, nor Ablrate is under no obligation to sell the asset or assets under the 
circumstances set out in this clause 12 for the value set out in the asset valuation 
report;
However, I would have expected Albrate to have attempted to sell the assets for a fair price. 
Its clear Albrate were under pressure to find a purchaser for the assets due to the 
complications with the landlord and there are a number of reasons why the value of the 
assets could have legitimately been higher when it was initially promoted on Albrates 
platform and yet was sold for much less when the loan was defaulted. And on balance, Im 
not persuaded the initial valuation or the efforts to sell were obviously negligent or 
substandard. 
Missing payments
Whilst I think Albrates decision to amend the loan contract on a number of occasions has 
complicated the repayment structure of the loan, Im not persuaded Mr S has been 
financially impacted by this. Mr S says he didnt receive a payment in October 2018 which he 
feels hes entitled to. However, I dont think this is correct. I say this as Albrates updated 
investors in its December 2018 addendum explained Octobers payment would remain 
outstanding:
This loan has had a temporary break in being serviced with Octobers loan 
repayment having not been paid and shall remain outstanding. The loan has been 
restructured for the November payment and this has been received at the new 
restructured level.
Mr S has also provided a copy of the payment history from his account with Albrate which 
shows three payments of £14.89 had supposedly been paid between May and June 2019. 
However, his own record show that he only received one of these payments. Mr S has also 
referred to Albrates update in its May 2019 addendum which explained the following:
This loan has had a temporary interest only rate since November 2018s loan 
repayment. The loan has been restructured and the first payment for the loan has 
been back dated to the 27th April at the new restructured level. This payment will be 
paid with 48 hours of the release of this Addendum.
Mr S says he didnt receive any payment between May and August 2019 and so he ought to 
be entitled to these two payments. Ive considered Mr S points carefully but again dont think 
he is entitled to these payments. I say this as the May 2019 addendum made it clear that 
these payments were to be capitalised as part of the restructuring of the loan:
The capital balance and outstanding interest payments (at the 14% pa rate between 
October 18 and March 19) have been capitalised for the restructured loan, therefore 
the interest only payments received between November and March are to be viewed 
as interim bonus interest payments for lenders.Albrate has explained that these payments appear on the repayment section of Mr S 
account due to a system error. Albrate says a new payment cannot be made on its system 
until previous payments have been resolved, which forces it to deal with these payments by 
either capitalising them or marking them as being received. The payments Mr S has referred 
to have been capitalised. Albrate says the error manifested itself by showing that the three 
payments had been made in the repayments section of Mr S account when in fact they 
havent been received. Albrate says the error has since been reported and fixed but I 
understand Mr S says his account hasnt been updated. Im not sure why that is the case, 
but Im persuaded by Albrates explanation, especially considering Albrate automatically 
distributes payments from borrowers on a pro rata-basis.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman