DRN-4104378
The complaint
Mr T complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) delayed the payment of his 
pension resulting in lost investment returns and more tax being paid than necessary. He 
would like compensation for the losses suffered.
What happened
Mr T had an executive pension plan comprising several policies (the plan). He was 
approaching age 75 and Aviva sent him a retirement pack on 4 February 2020 and a 
reminder letter on 3 March 2020. Mr T called Aviva on 5 March 2020, around three weeks 
before his birthday. He told Aviva he would exceed the pensions lifetime allowance (LTA). It 
said it would escalate the matter and send the relevant LTA forms by email. Mr T chased 
these the next day and they were sent. Mr T completed them emailed back on 11 March 
2020. 
Between 6 March and Mr Ts birthday on 27 March 2020, several further calls took place. 
What was said is disputed. In summary, Mr T says Aviva told him his preferred payment 
option of a single lump sum was available and would be processed before his birthday. But 
Aviva says it was awaiting instructions from Mr T, which werent provided in time.  
Mr Ts benefits werent paid before his 75th birthday. He says Aviva told him this would be 
backdated, it wasnt, and a complaint was raised. Mr T says he pressed for updates about 
this over the next few months as further complaints were raised over various other issues. 
Aviva said it now couldnt pay Mr Ts benefits as a lump sum due to HMRC restrictions and 
the only option available was annuity purchase. It said it needed more information from him 
to complete the LTA check. When this was completed, it said the full value of the plan would 
be subject to an LTA tax charge. 
Mr T said as the age 75 deadline had been missed, he would now pay more in tax overall. 
With his fund now subject to a 25% LTA tax charge with the remainder liable to income tax 
at his marginal rate, with the alternative option of a 55% LTA tax charge with no liability to 
income tax no longer available. Mr T said his plan remained invested and its value had 
increased. But when it was moved to a nominee account in August 2020 the amount was 
around £50,000 less than the value shown a few days before. A further complaint was raised 
about this. 
In October 2020 Aviva offered a concession to move the plan to drawdown or to allow 
transfer to another provider. It said it couldnt arrange the 55% tax option as Mr T was past 
age 75 and it had to deduct LTA tax at 25%. Mr T says he wanted a response to all his 
complaints before deciding. It was eventually agreed that Aviva would deduct the 25% LTA 
tax charge, transfer the balance to a drawdown plan and Mr T would immediately take all 
benefits, subject to PAYE. But, with the various further delays, it wasnt until 29 June 2021 
that Mr Ts fund was paid out to him. 
Aviva accepted it had caused delays. It paid Mr T a total of £550 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. It said his fund had been disinvested at the value on 26 
March 2020, when hed wanted the benefits paid. And, that it had added interest to June 
2021 of £4,313.03, calculated at Bank of England base rate plus 1%. 
Mr T referred his complaints to our service. He said he disputed Avivas version of events in 
the period before his 75th birthday. Our investigator looked into it and upheld the complaint in 
part. 
Our investigator said despite Aviva writing to Mr T on 4 February 2020, hed only contacted it 
on 5 March 2020, and it wasnt realistic to expect Aviva to process everything in three 
weeks. So, it wasnt responsible for any LTA tax consequences which Aviva had dealt with 
correctly, in line with HMRC guidance.
Our investigator said as Mr T wanted to take benefits in March 2020, it was fair to use the 
valuation from then. He said Aviva had caused delays and should have added interest at 8% 
per year simple from 26 March 2020 to 29 June 2021. So, it should update the calculation. 
But he said the £550 compensation paid for distress and inconvenience was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Mr T said two other pension providers had successfully paid benefits in the same timeframe, 
including deducting LTA charges. Our investigator said he still didnt think it was reasonable 
to expect Aviva to have been able to complete the LTA and other checks within three weeks. 
As Mr T doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
My provisional decision 
I issued my provision decision on 24 March 2023; I explained the reasons why I was 
planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold the complaint. 
At this stage I dont think Aviva has treated Mr T fairly and I think it is responsible for the 
failure to process his benefits before he was 75. I think this led to the subsequent 
complaints, so resolving this initial complaint fairly will also resolve those that followed.
Our investigator thought that Mr T simply hadnt allowed adequate time to complete the 
necessary processes before his 75th birthday. So, Aviva wasnt responsible for any tax 
consequences arising from that but was responsible for delays subsequently. 
Initially I thought by not contacting Aviva until 5 March 2022 Mr T hadnt given it a 
reasonable time to process everything before his 75th birthday. Even if other providers were 
able to process his benefits quickly Mr T didnt necessarily mean Aviva had treated him 
unfairly in not being able to do the same. Particularly as it had contacted Mr T before then 
asking him to get in touch. 
And Mr Ts pension affairs were more complex than most. I thought that hed be aware of 
this. In part because hed made various elections and decisions about his pension benefits in 
the past due to changing tax legislation. And, reasonably, he might have been mindful of the 
possibility of additional requirements for Aviva to be able to process his retirement benefits. 
Meaning, he might have responded to the ROP sent on 4 February 2020 more promptly.
But I also thought that even if Mr T had responded immediately it wasnt clear that Aviva 
would have had time to process matters in time. Because Aviva first wrote to him around seven weeks before his birthday. But when he returned the LTA form on 11 March 2020, it 
didnt even raise queries and request further information until 23 April 2020, around six 
weeks later, despite it telling him it was being dealt with urgently. 
And, if Aviva hadnt given itself adequate time to carry out the checks necessary before Mr 
Ts 75th birthday that was hardly his fault. And this might have resulted in adverse tax 
consequences as well as creating a great deal of confusion and further delay in him 
receiving his benefits.
I also thought Avivas file seemed to be missing some information. And from its own 
timelines it appeared to have failed to respond to some of Mr Ts complaints and queries 
hed raised about telephone calls, where he disputed its version of events summarised by 
Aviva.  
So, I asked Aviva some questions about its procedures as a customer approaches age 75. 
As this is a cut-off point in tax legislation and where options offered by the plan may also 
become restricted. Aviva said it wasnt able to provide a typical timeframe for LTA checks to 
be completed. But there was a procedure for customers nearing their 75th birthdays where 
staff could share information. I also asked Aviva to provide copies of email exchanges, 
letters, and recordings of the numerous telephone calls with Mr T referred to in its file. 
In the calls Mr T is repeatedly told matters were in hand and that Aviva had everything it 
needed to process things by his 75th birthday. After Mr T passed age 75 it initially it seemed 
Aviva agreed it had made errors. As when it called him on 24 April 2020, it said, having 
reviewed these calls it had opened a complaint on his behalf about the failure to process his 
benefits in time. 
But I couldnt see that Aviva had provided a final response in respect of this complaint, 
something Mr T had chased it to do. I asked for a copy of this and a recording of an earlier 
call from 22 January 2020, which had been referred to on one of the calls Id listened to. 
Aviva provided a final response dated 27 April 2020. This referred only to one of the four 
policy numbers. It didnt identify what complaint it was addressing and said:
It was good we were able to talk things through and Im glad weve been able to help 
resolve your concerns.
It didnt say when this discussion took place.
I asked Mr T about this letter. He recalled this related to an exchange in March 2020 when 
Aviva said it would take ten working to make send his money once everything was sorted, 
which he thought was excessive. Aviva later agreed payment would be made in around 
three working days, resolving the complaint. In the calls from 5 and 6 March 2020, Mr T did 
express dissatisfaction about payment timeframes, so this final response could relate to that 
complaint.
From Avivas own timeline Mr T continued to press for a response on this complaint for many 
months after this particular final response letter was issued. At this stage I dont think he has 
been provided with a final response on this key complaint from which the other complaints 
arise. This complaint was considered by our investigator in his view, and I am addressing it 
in this provisional decision and Aviva can raise any points it would like to make in response.
But, from Avivas other comments, emails, and correspondence its position appears to be 
that Mr T didnt allow enough time before his 75th birthday for things to be processed. And, in particular, failed to provide instructions of what retirement option he wanted before he was 
75. 
And having reviewed the evidence now available, I dont think that is the case and Mr T 
hasnt been treated fairly. 
Should Aviva have been able to process the retirement benefits before age 75
At this stage I think it should have. Had it, Mr T may have been able to arrange his affairs in 
a more tax efficient manner than he says was achieved. He also wouldnt have suffered the 
considerable delay in receiving his benefits. 
Emails provided by Aviva in response to my queries show that soon after Mr Ts birthday it 
was aware there was a problem. I think incorrect conclusions were drawn that hed failed to 
provide instructions about what pension option he wanted, causing the deadline to be 
missed.
Instead, I think Mr T had provided clear instructions and was repeatedly told everything was 
in hand. Even if he hadnt given instructions, Aviva simply hadnt undertaken the work 
necessary on the LTA forms to process the benefits in time. And, crucially, I dont think Aviva 
gave Mr T the opportunity to provide the information needed in good time.
As a plan holder approaches their chosen retirement age (or age 75) pension providers 
normally write asking the customer to consider their options. These are often referred to as 
retirement options packs (ROP) or wake up letters. 
When I asked Aviva if there were any special procedures to identify cases where 
policyholders were approaching age 75 it said:
The process team have confirmed: Yes, there is a RPI dashboard wherein the 
details of approaching age 75 cases are shared.
Also, system generated Wake ups are there for approaching age 75 cases.
But an internal email thread beginning on 30 March 2020 has a message on 8 April 2020 
suggesting there were problems with this system in Mr Ts case:
Here we have followed the retirement procedure partially.
1st ROP was issued to Ph on 04/02/2020 i.e. 2 months before age 75 liner issued to 
PH before that no ROP was issued i.e. 1 year or 6 months before age 75 
We received completed LTA forms on 11/03/2020 in wrong team queue then it 
moved to correct queue on 16/03/2020.
The Ph in this email is Mr T. There was a delay in Aviva allocating the LTA questionnaire 
Mr T returned, despite this being flagged as urgent following the call of 6 March 2020. It also 
suggests that Aviva should have issued other ROPs or wake up letters more than two 
months before Mr Ts 75th birthday to give him more notice of the need to do something. 
So, I thought that it likely that Aviva hadnt given Mr T or itself enough time to process his 
benefits before age 75. And having listened to the call of 22 January 2020, I think that 
responsibility for the failure to process Mr Ts benefits before age 75 does fall entirely on 
Aviva not Mr T. Mr T calls and asks for a valuation as he was approaching his 75th birthday and hadnt heard 
anything from Aviva. He asks how long the retirement benefit process will take. He is 
advised it can be dealt with over the phone, with documents issued by email for signature 
and return by email. After which it would then be typically 5-10 working days to finalise 
payment. Aviva says:
but I wouldnt leave it too close to your 75th birthday, get the ball rolling before that 
Mr T then asks if the forms were sent out now, would it matter if he didnt return them for a 
month. He is advised anytime within the next month to six weeks should be fine. Mr T 
queries this and is told:
to give us a phone back in six weeks or so.
Mr T asks again how long the process will take, as hes trying to work around holidays. 
Again, he is told that once he returned the forms it will be around 5-10 working days. He 
asks if he needs to provide anything else. Having checked the plan, Aviva says he wouldnt 
need to provide anything else, except to possibly verify his bank account details. 
And six weeks later, on 5 March 2020 Mr T called Aviva to progress matters. 
Mr T informs Aviva he is over the LTA limit. It says it will email forms, which Mr T chases the 
next day. He asks if he can take the benefits as a one-off lump sum and is told he can. He 
asks if his benefits arent paid by age 75 do I suffer more tax penalty. Aviva says the fund 
will be disinvested at age 75, and annuity purchase would be the only option. Mr T confirms 
his preference is to take a lump sum and he knows a big tax chunk comes off it.
Mr T emails the LTA form back on 11 March 2020. Hearing nothing, he calls on 19 March 
2020. Aviva tells him it has the form, that he has decided (about benefits) and that nothing is 
needed from him, and someone would call him.
On 25 March 2020, without a call back, Mr T phones again. Aviva asks if he is looking to 
take a lump sum or buy an annuity. Mr T expresses concern about the volatile investment 
markets and asks about options. He is told these are lump sum, annuity, and drawdown. Mr 
T says he will give a decision the next day on either lump sum or drawdown.
I think Mr T is concerned about lack of progress and volatile markets, with the value of his 
fund falling sharply. Taking benefits in one lump sum would crystalise that investment loss 
on the entire fund, where a drawdown option could mean that some of the investment could 
continue. By repeatedly asking him what option he wanted I think Aviva was just creating 
further confusion, whilst still telling him there was time to process his benefits. 
On 26 March 2020 Mr T calls. Drawdown and the lump sum option are discussed again. Mr 
T says he wants the lump sum option and offers to confirm by email if needed. He notes it 
takes Aviva days to actually look at emails, so it wont see this before his 75th birthday. 
Again, he is told there is nothing else he needs to do.
On 27 March 2020 (his 75th birthday) Mr T calls again. Aviva says hes submitted everything 
needed. But asks him to confirm what option he wants. Mr T says hed confirmed he wanted 
a lump sum yesterday and asks if anyone has done anything. Aviva say his plan hasnt been 
disinvested yet, but someone will look into it.
Hearing nothing Mr T calls Aviva on 3 April 2020. He is told it doesnt know if the plan was 
disinvested but that this would be backdated if needed. Mr T expresses his dissatisfaction at 
the lack of progress and communication over the last month, with call backs promised but never made. Aviva says there are now delays due to Covid, but that a lot of money is 
involved, and the importance is understood. Mr T confirms the value of his plan from Avivas 
app on 27 March 2020. He is told to keep a note of that but obviously there will be tax and 
things paid on it. 
As the pension provider it was Avivas responsibility to carry out LTA checks required at age 
75. And from the evidence available it is clear that it told Mr T when he needed to get in 
touch with it for it to process his benefits and thats what he did. I also think its clear that he 
provided clear instructions about what he wanted, was told this was available and that it was 
in hand repeatedly. 
I appreciate there would be pressure of work, made worse by Covid considerations. But 
these arose many weeks after Mr T first contacted it. And it flagged matters as urgent but 
then didnt appear to deal with it urgently and continued to misinform Mr T about what was 
happening. And nothing I have seen suggests Aviva was in a position to carry out the 
necessary work to have paid Mr Ts benefits in time even without any issues relating to 
Covid. 
So, I dont think Aviva it has treated him fairly and this resulted in all the problems that 
followed. And if Mr T has suffered a financial loss as a consequence, it is fair that Aviva 
compensate him for it.   
Putting things right
Its fair that Mr T should be put back into the position he should have been in if the error 
hadnt been made. Had Aviva processed things in time, I think Mr T would have taken a 
lump sum option. That means the fair value of Mr Ts pension was the value the day before 
his 75th birthday. This is when it should have been disinvested according to Avivas terms 
and conditions. And whilst the fund value increased after this date it could also have fallen. If 
that had happened, I would tell Aviva to still honour the value from 26 March 2020.
Had the benefits been paid in time the LTA tax charge would have been at 55%, with no 
further income tax. The value on 26 March 2020 seems to have been £425,355. The LTA tax 
charge would have been around £233,945 and Mr T would have received around £191,409. 
Ill call this Outcome A.
Outcome B is what happened. The LTA tax charge was 25% (£106,338.75) and the balance 
of the fund (plus some interest added for late payment) moved to drawdown. The value then 
fully encashed before PAYE was £323,366.32. Aviva says the net amount paid to Mr T was 
£198,552.17. This may well not reflect Mr Ts overall income tax cost on the gross payment 
as he has said.
The interest rate used under Outcome B to compensate Mr T for the late payment was Bank 
of England base rate plus 1%. Our service expects a rate of 8% per year simple to be used, 
so the amount paid to Mr T was less than it should have been.
What I think Aviva should now do is recalculate the figures on both outcomes by establishing 
the net fund value after both the 25% and 55% of LTA tax charge, using the fund value 
identified on the 26 March 2020. 
It should add interest to both net fund values identified at 8% per year simple from 26 March 
2020 to 29 June 2021. It should then calculate the actual marginal rate income tax cost on the payment to Mr T on 
Outcome B. Mr T will need to provide Aviva with information about his overall income tax 
position in the 2021/22 tax year for it to do this. 
If the calculations show that the net of all tax payment to Mr T under Outcome B is lower 
than the net payment under Outcome A, then Mr T has suffered a financial loss and should 
be compensated for it. It should allow for the interest it has already paid Mr T under 
Outcome B. 
If there is a loss Aviva should then add interest at 8% per year simple to the loss from 29 
June 2021 until our service tells it Mr T has accepted a final decision I may make along 
these lines. 
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Aviva should provide Mr T with a copy of all the calculations it has carried out in a clear and 
simple format.
Ive also thought about the distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr T, which overall, I 
think has been considerable. £550 compensation has already been paid for the issues 
arising after Mr Ts 75th birthday. But he hasnt yet been compensated for distress and 
inconvenience caused by the failure to sort matters out before then. So, I think its fair that 
Aviva pay a further £250 in respect of this.
I asked both parties to send me any further information or comments they would like me to 
consider.
Response to provisional decision
Mr T said he accepted my provisional decision. He provided information about his tax 
position.
Aviva also accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint.
As set out in my provisional decision I dont think Mr T has been treated fairly. I dont think 
Aviva allowed adequate time to complete the LTA checks necessary to enable his benefits to 
be paid in time, resulting in additional tax liabilities. And it then took far too long to pay his 
benefits to him and then offered compensation for the late payment at too low an interest 
rate, which I dont think was fair.
Aviva should put Mr T back into the position he should have been in as closely as possible 
and pay him further compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. Putting things right
If Aviva had processed Mr Ts benefits in time, I think Mr T would have taken a lump sum 
option and the fair value of his plan was the value the day before his 75th birthday. The LTA 
tax charge would have been at 55%, with no further income tax. 
Aviva should confirm the plan value on 26 March 2020 and calculate the LTA tax charge 
assuming benefits had been paid in time. This is Outcome A.
Outcome B is what happened Where the LTA tax charge was 25% (£106,338.75) and the 
balance of the fund (plus some interest added for late payment) moved to drawdown. The 
value then fully encashed before PAYE was £323,366.32 with a net amount paid to Mr T of 
£198,552.17. The interest rate used under Outcome B to compensate Mr T for the late 
payment was Bank of England base rate plus 1%, less than the rate of 8% per year simple 
our service considers fair.
Aviva should recalculate the figures on both outcomes by establishing the net fund values 
after both the 25% and 55% LTA tax charge, using the fund value identified on 26 March 
2020. 
It should add interest to both net fund values identified at 8% per year simple from 26 March 
2020 to 29 June 2021, when the benefits were paid. 
It should then calculate the actual marginal rate income tax cost on the payment to Mr T on 
Outcome B. Mr T has confirmed he will provide Aviva with information about his overall 
income tax position in the 2021/22 tax year for it to do this. 
If the calculations show that the net of all tax payment to Mr T under Outcome B is lower 
than the net payment under Outcome A, then Mr T has suffered a financial loss and should 
be compensated for it. It should allow for the interest it has already paid Mr T under 
Outcome B. 
If there is a loss Aviva should then add interest at 8% per year simple to the loss from 29 
June 2021 until our service tells it Mr T has accepted my final decision. 
If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give Mr T a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Aviva should provide Mr T with a copy of all the calculations it has carried out in a clear and 
simple format.
I think Mr T has suffered distress and inconvenience over what has happened both before 
and after his 75th birthday. Aviva has paid £550 compensation for delays after his birthday, 
and I think it is fair that it pays him a further £250 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused by the failure to sort matters out before then.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
I direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to undertake the calculations set out above and if 
Mr B has suffered a loss, it should pay him compensation. If there is a loss it should add interest at 8% per year simple to the loss from 29 June 2021 until our service tells it Mr T has 
accepted my final decision. Aviva should provide Mr T with a copy of all the calculations it 
has carried out in a clear and simple format.
I further direct Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr T a further £250 in compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman