DRN-2196511
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Belmont Green Finance Limited trading as Vida Homeloans (Vida) turned 
down his mortgage application after a valuer visited the property. Mr J wants Vida to refund 
the fees he paid.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr J agreed to pay the fees to Vida when he applied for the mortgage. Vida incurred 
the cost of the valuation and undertook work to assess Mr Js application. These fees 
are non-refundable. 
The valuation was for Vidas use only to assess the suitability of the property as 
security for the proposed mortgage. The property was valued at £400,000 - not at 
£475,000 which Mr J had based his application on. The valuer commented that in 
terms of resale potential, they thought it unlikely there would be reasonable demand 
from owner occupiers for the property in normal market conditions. 
It is for Vida to decide its lending criteria and it is entitled to rely on the opinion of 
suitably qualified valuers when making its decision. My remit doesnt extend to 
questioning the content of the valuation.
Vida put Mr Js comments regarding the value of the property and the nature of the 
valuers comments to the valuation company, but it didnt change its position. 
Vida considered whether the application could proceed on different terms to those 
applied for, but ultimately the decision was made to decline the application. Having 
considered everything, I dont think Vida has acted unfairly or unreasonably here. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Js frustration, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Js complaint against Belmont Green Finance 
Limited trading as Vida Homeloans.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman