DRN-1825437
The complaint
Mr P complains that his landlords property insurance premium was unfairly increased by U K 
Insurance Limited. 
What happened
In 2014, Mr P arranged landlords property insurance with UKI for a property he let to 
tenants. The policy renewed annually. In June 2017 the annual renewal premium was 
£648.39 which increased to £3,397.48 in 2018 and £3,695.90 at the 2019 renewal. From the 
2018 renewal annual interest of 8% was charged for paying by direct debit. In July 2019 Mr 
P first noticed that the monthly direct debit payments being collected by UKI for the policy 
had significantly increased so he complained.
UKI looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt think itd done anything wrong. It explained to him 
why his premium had increased so sharply. Principally it said it had a new flood risk 
assessment tool which it applied to all the properties it insured. It said Mr Ps property scored 
the highest risk rating for flood which meant a set loading was applied to his premium. UKI 
said there were also other multiple factors that were taken into account at renewal and which 
could affect the price charged. 
UKI said it had sent him a renewal pack in 2018 and 2019 in advance of the renewal, setting 
out what the forthcoming premium would be which gave him enough time to check the cover 
met his needs. It also pointed out that he had online access to his policy documents.  
UKI noted that Mr P had also complained that hed been unable to update his email address 
on its system but could find no evidence of when hed attempted to do so. 
And it said itd also looked at Mr Ps complaint about the service charge he said hed had to 
pay for paying by direct debit. It said new customers were charged no interest for their first 
year but thereafter all customers were charged 8% of their premium for paying by monthly 
direct debit. 
Unhappy with UKIs findings, Mr P cancelled his policy with UKI and found replacement 
cover with another insurer at a much cheaper price. He also complained to this service. In 
addition to being unhappy about the increase to his premium Mr P said he was also unhappy 
that UKI hadnt told him why it was doing so. He said the application of a £10,000 policy 
excess in 2017 shouldve been enough to mitigate UKIs risk. And he said that being 
charged £271 per month as a service charge was too much so he wanted UKI to return 13 
months worth of payments. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. Mr P 
disagreed with our investigators findings so the complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Mr P was so shocked upon realising how much his monthly direct debits had 
increased by. The increase he saw was indeed significant. 
But its important to understand that this service doesnt normally assess whether a price is 
too high to cover a particular risk. Thats for the insurer to decide based on its appetite for 
risk and its business requirements more generally. So, we wont normally say whether a 
product represents good value for money. We generally accept that insurers can charge 
what they like for insurance so long as they act fairly. In simple terms, that means that they 
should apply their chosen pricing model consistently provided the consumer has flexibility to 
shop around and change insurer if they wish. Im satisfied thats the case here. 
I can see that UKI sent Mr P a renewal pack in good time ahead of the actual renewal date 
each year. That means the terms on which UKI was offering cover for the coming year  
including the price  were given to Mr P to consider in good time. Whilst the policy was set to 
auto-renew I can also see that the covering letter urged Mr P to check his quote and to 
contact UKI should he no longer want the policy or had any questions. Its the responsibility 
of the policy holder to make sure they have cover in place that meets their needs at a price 
they are willing to pay. 
Insurance policies such as Mr Ps are annual contracts. There is no obligation on a 
policyholder to accept the renewal offer they are made by the insurer. Most consumers have 
the flexibility to shop around for alternative cover and Im satisfied that this was something 
that Mr P was able to do because once he realised his premiums had increased as much as 
they had he cancelled the policy and found cover with another insurer. I see no reason why 
Mr P wouldnt have done so sooner had he realised that his premiums had increased. 
Insurers each have their own view about the risks they are being asked to take on and how 
much they need to charge to do so. There are a variety of factors insurers take into account 
when calculating risk. These include factors directly related to a customer  like claims 
history  and factors that arent directly related to an individual - like the number of claims in 
the area a customer lives or the risk of flooding in the area. Insurers constantly review these 
factors and they can lead to increases or decreases in the premiums they charge. How they 
gather, analyse and assess this information is up to each insurer. 
I can see that UKI has provided Mr P with an explanation for why his premium increased so 
significantly  that it was mainly down to a new flood risk assessment tool it was applying. 
But it also said that other factors wouldve influenced the premium it set. UKI has provided 
us with confidential business sensitive information about how it calculated Mr Ps premium. 
Im afraid Im unable to share with Mr P. But Id like to reassure him that I have checked the 
information UKI has given us very carefully and I can see its calculated his premium 
correctly and in the same way as it wouldve done for any of its other customers. So, Im 
satisfied that UKI hasnt singled Mr P out in anyway or treated him any differently from any of 
its other customers. 
Ive seen no evidence that the increase UKI applied was because it wanted to get rid of Mr P 
as a customer. 
Whilst I can see why Mr P would like his renewal pack to explain the reasons behind any 
price increase, the fact is that such information is business sensitive. Disclosing it would give 
an unfair advantage to other insurers. As I have said above, how insurers price their policies 
is largely a matter for them. This service looks to see if an insurer has applied its pricing 
model fairly and given the policyholder enough notice to shop around for alternative cover if 
they dont like the offer they have been made. Im satisfied that UKI did that here. I note that Mr P has said UKI charged him £271 per month to pay by direct debit but I can 
see that, in fact, this wasnt the monthly charge but rather was the annual charge for doing 
so. Most insurers will charge interest to policyholders for paying monthly  typically under a 
consumer credit agreement. I can see that UKI charged Mr P 8% of his annual premium for 
doing so and that this was the same percentage amount it charged all its customers paying 
monthly. I dont think UKI has treated Mr P unfairly in this respect so I cant reasonably 
require it to refund the charge.
Mr P has also complained that he was unable to update his email address. Although theres 
no evidence of his attempts to do so, I cant fairly say any inability to do so prevented Mr P 
from contacting UKI before July 2019 if he was unhappy about the amount it was charging 
him. Thats because when he realised that the premiums had increased he had no trouble in 
contacting UKI. So, its reasonable to think that if Mr P wanted to update his email address 
and was having trouble then he couldve contacted UKI before July 2019 to do so. Ive seen 
evidence from UKI that Mr Ps email address was validated with it and that he hadnt tried to 
access his online account between the 2018 and 2019 renewals. 
Its a policyholders responsibility to make sure their contact details are up to date. I cant 
fairly say that UKI behaved unreasonably by sending any renewal documents to the email 
address it held for Mr P (as well as by post).
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman