DRN-3607934
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC registered a marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, when it closed her account.
What happened
Mrs D says her sister lives abroad. And that she agreed to receive money from her sisters 
fiance and send this to her. She is unhappy that her account was closed, and a fraud 
marker added.
Barclays said it hadnt made a mistake. Mrs D had received two payments from the same 
account  one for £1,510 on 9 August 2021 and the other for £4,000 on 31 August 2021. 
She had accessed this money. In October 2021 the person sending the money had said that 
he was the victim of a scam. And Barclays had reviewed Mrs Ds account and decided to 
close it. It said it was required to report what happened to CIFAS.
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Guidance from CIFAS about 
applying a marker was that:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial crime has 
been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently
report the conduct of the subject to the police.
She said that to meet this standard of proof Barclays should have given Mrs D the 
opportunity to explain the activity on the account. It hadnt done so at the time and it didnt 
have any evidence to show that she was complicit in what happened. Our adjudicator said 
that she found Mrs Ds testimony now to be both plausible and persuasive. So, there were 
insufficient grounds for the marker although Barclays was entitled to close Mrs Ds account. 
She said that Barclays should now either return any remaining funds to the person sending 
them or release the money that was in the account at closure to Mrs D. It should also pay 
her £200 for inconvenience.
Barclays didnt respond to the view, so the case has been passed for a final decision. Mrs D 
said that she needed her money back to pay her bills. She has provided details of the 
payments of the money she made to her sister and that she has been turned down for a 
credit application this year.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Through our adjudicator I asked Barclays whether it would now be returning all the 
remaining funds in Mrs Ds account to her. Or whether it was holding any money in respect 
of the payments that had been reported as fraudulent. It confirmed that given the information 
Mrs D had since provided about the subsequent credits to her account and the time that had 
now passed it can release the funds to Mrs D.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Barclays 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive taken into account guidance from CIFAS about cases where someone receives 
fraudulent payments into their account like this  acting as a so called money mule. And 
that relevant factors in deciding whether Mrs D was deliberately complicit in what happened 
include whether she knew or ought to have known that the money wasnt legitimate, whether 
she may have benefitted from the money by keeping part and whether she has provided 
generic or inconsistent explanations.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs D received and sent this money on herself. Shes provided 
evidence of those payments and which is consistent with her sending the money on to her 
sister. She received two credits separated by over three weeks. There was no report of any 
issue with either of the payments until October 2021.
Barclays then received information that this money was obtained fraudulently. And it took the 
view that Mrs D was complicit in this because the money had come through her account. As 
has been referred to above the guidance from CIFAS is that it ought to have given Mrs D the 
opportunity to explain her position. It didnt seem to do more than tell her that her account 
had been restricted and then closed. Not doing so doesnt automatically mean that there was 
no basis for the CIFAS marker as it would depend on what she might had said. And Ive now 
been able to consider this taking into account Mrs Ds testimony.
Having done so I agree with our adjudicator that what shes said is persuasive. So, I dont 
consider Barclays has sufficient grounds for the CIFAS marker. But given its concerns about 
the fraudulent money it decided to close the account and I dont have a reasonable basis to 
interfere with that.
Barclays has agreed to refund the other money in her account as set out above. It had 
needed time to make checks to ensure she was entitled to this. I agree that the 
recommended compensation is appropriate for the distress caused by what happened.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1) Remove the CIFAS marker.
2) Pay Mrs D £200.
3) Pay Mrs D the residual balance in the account as it has now agreed to do.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 September 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman