DRN-3177878
The complaint
Mr K complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Yorkshire Bank  incorrectly provided 
him with an agreement in principle for a mortgage and failed to take account of his 
immigration status. That led to Clydesdale withdrawing the agreement in principle six days 
later.
What happened
Mr K was a first-time buyer and approached Clydesdale about a mortgage in July 2020. 
Based on the information Mr K gave Clydesdale, it agreed  in principle  to lend him 
£85,000. And it sent him a screenshot confirming that. 
On the same day Mr K emailed Clydesdale attaching a Home Office document confirming 
his current immigration status, asking if that would be sufficient for the mortgage application. 
Mr K says he had to chase Clydesdale for a response to that email. And six days after 
submitting the Home Office document, Clydesdale responded, apologising and saying he 
was not eligible for the mortgage. Mr K then complained to Clydesdale.
In its final response letter dated 25 September 2020 Clydesdale upheld Mr Ks complaint. It 
said it was sorry for not taking Mr Ks residency status into consideration before agreeing in 
principle to a mortgage and it was sorry that Mr K had to chase following his submission of 
the Home Office document.
Dissatisfied with Clydesdales response, Mr K brought his complaint to us. He said hed told 
Clydesdale about his immigration status in his initial discussion. And he said his family has 
suffered a huge emotional blow and were stressed for many weeks and that they asked 
family friends and employers for help with the deposit. Mr K outlined a number of other 
things that may have happened as a result of Clydesdales error  but didnt. During an initial 
telephone conversation with our investigator Mr K said he wants £10,000 to put the matter 
right.
Since bringing his complaint to us, Mr K has confirmed, on 23 December 2020, that he was 
able to secure a mortgage with a different lender and had moved into his new home.
After considering the evidence available, our investigator didnt think Clydesdale needed to 
take any further action and that its apology was sufficient in the circumstances. He said a 
mortgage application is subject to full eligibility and affordability assessments and there is no 
obligation for a lender to make a mortgage offer based on an agreement in principle.
Our investigator said hes been provided with Clydesdales lending criteria around customers 
who are not British citizens and is satisfied it assessed Mr Ks application in line with its 
policy. However, it was clear Clydesdale gave the wrong information initially, so he 
considered the impact of that on Mr K. He found that, while Mr K had outlined many things 
that may have happened, what actually happened caused Mr K no financial loss. And while 
he appreciated Mr Ks frustration, hed seen that the error was corrected within six days and 
Mr K was able to make alternative arrangements.
Mr K responded saying he strongly disagrees with our investigators outcome and the matter 
was only rectified because he chased Clydesdale. He requested that his case be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, so its been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mr Ks complaint Ive thought about whether, in the circumstances, Clydesdale 
needs to do more to compensate him for the error it made. All parties appear to be in 
agreement that Mr K shouldnt have been given an agreement in principle. And Clydesdale 
has apologised for that and the time Mr K had to wait for it to respond following his 
submission of the Home Office document.
A call recording of the telephone conversation Mr K had with Clydesdale to obtain the 
agreement in principle isnt available. But Clydesdale has acknowledged it was given in error 
which supports Mr Ks claim that he mentioned his residency status during the call. However, 
Mr K was sufficiently concerned about this following the call to submit the Home Office 
document the same day, asking whether it would be acceptable. So, Ive thought about this 
when considering the impact on Mr K of Clydesdales error.
Clydesdale followed the call by sending Mr K a screenshot confirming the agreement in 
principle. That said:
Based on the details you have provided we may be able to lend you £85,000
So, I think, from the screenshot, its reasonable for Clydesdale to have assumed that Mr K 
understood the agreement in principle wasnt a guaranteed offer of a loan. And I think, given 
my knowledge, its likely Clydesdale would have made that clear to him during the 
conversation. 
I dont think its likely, given the wording of the agreement in principle screen shot, that Mr K 
would ever have been under the impression that Clydesdale would definitely approve a full 
mortgage application. And his actions after the call  submitting the Home Office 
documentation and chasing that  tell me he had his doubts. So, I think the loss of 
expectation to Mr K was minimal and I think what expectation he may have had was over a 
short time period  six days.
I appreciate that Mr K had to chase Clydesdale and he may have expected the response 
much sooner than he received it. But I think it is reasonable to expect some effort on the 
applicants behalf and even some disappointment when entering into the mortgage 
application process. In this case I dont think Clydesdale caused sufficient inconvenience or 
upset to warrant a monetary award. It has apologised and I think that is sufficient in the 
circumstances.
I also appreciate that Mr K says Clydesdales error could have led him to take various 
actions that may have led him to lose money. But, as Mr K has also said, he was prevented 
from taking those actions by chasing Clydesdale and it confirming that he wasnt eligible for 
a mortgage with it. As Mr K didnt take those actions and didnt lose money, I wont ask 
Clydesdale to make a payment to him in that regard.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman