DRN-2376304
The complaint
Mr W is acting on behalf of his late mothers estate. Mr W complains that Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited paid out a lower amount than the estate expected when a 
claim was made on his mothers life assurance policies.
What happened
Mr Ws mother, Mrs W, held three whole of life assurance policies which were later 
administered by Royal London. These were non-profit policies with a guaranteed sum 
assured and policyholders werent automatically entitled to profits Royal London made. 
However, a discretionary bonus could be added if Royal London felt the economic conditions 
allowed.
When Mrs W contacted Royal London in 1999, they provided a quotation for a claim value of 
£2,333.16. When the estate made a claim on the policies Royal London valued the policies 
at £1,251.57. Mr W complained to Royal London that Mrs W had received a higher claim 
value in 1999 and they should honour it.
Royal London provided a final response to Mr Ws complaint and said that although the 
policies did have a value of £2,333.16 in 1999, this comprised of the sum assured plus 
discretionary bonuses. They explained a discretionary bonus wasnt guaranteed, and that 
since 2011 discretionary bonuses hadnt always been paid on these policies or were less 
than those applied in 1999. Royal London said they had written to all their policyholders in 
2011 to tell them discretionary bonuses had been removed because of economic conditions.
Mr W wasnt happy with the response from Royal London and brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked at things for Mr W and felt that Royal London dealt with the claim 
reasonably and didnt need to take any further action. The investigator thought the 1999 
letter couldve better explained the breakdown of the guaranteed sum assured and the 
discretionary bonuses, but it was only a quotation based on the value at that time.
Mr W didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to decide the 
complaint. He said he didnt feel Royal London had complied with the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) Fair Treatment of Customer outcomes. Mr W said the failure of Royal 
London to pay the 1999 quotation meant there were insufficient funds to provide the funeral 
arrangements his mother wanted.
In further comments, Mr W says that in 1999 his mother was aged 75 and vulnerable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and I think he set out matters clearly and 
thoroughly. 
The three policies were taken out between 1947 and 1988. There are no policy documents 
for me to refer to, but Royal London have provided screenshots of the policy details and I am 
satisfied all three were non-profit whole of life contracts. This meant the only bonuses that 
could be added were at the discretion of Royal London and were based on the economic 
conditions at the time of claim.
It isnt disputed that Royal London provided Mrs W with a claim value quotation in 1999. Mr 
W has said his mother was vulnerable at this time, but this wasnt part of the complaint the 
estate made to Royal London, so I cant comment further on the matter. Mr W would need to 
raise that separately with Royal London. However, Mr W also says Royal London didnt 
provide updates to Mrs W regarding the policies after this time. He says they havent 
complied with the FCA guidance that they should keep customers appropriately informed 
after the point of sale. I disagree with Mr W, and I will explain why I consider Royal London 
did keep Mrs W reasonably updated.
I have seen two letters sent by Royal London (or the predecessor business) to Mrs W in May 
and July 2009. These explained the guaranteed sums assured and that the policies were 
now paid-up (no other premiums were required). 
Royal London says it sent a letter to all policyholders in 2011. Royal London cant produce a 
copy of the actual letter they sent in 2011. But, because theyve provided a template copy, I 
am persuaded, on the balance of probability, they did send it. The letter explained bonuses 
were discretionary and were not being applied at that time.
I think these letters support Royal London were communicating with Mrs W when there were 
important events relating to her policies.
I have noted Mr Ws comments the FCA guidelines say consumers are to be provided with 
products firms have led them to expect. In this case the policies were non-profit and the only 
bonuses that could be applied were discretionary. So, I dont think it is fair and reasonable 
for Royal London to be expected to pay out bonuses that werent guaranteed. Their 
quotation in 1999 was just this; a quotation on what the value of the policies were at that 
time if a claim was made. The letter in 2009, sent after the 1999 quotation, made it 
reasonably clear what the guaranteed sums assured were. And the letter in 2011 explained 
the discretionary bonus was not being applied at that time.
I empathise with Mr W that the amount Royal London paid at the date of claim wouldve 
been upsetting at an extremely emotional time for the family. I am also sympathetic that Mr 
W had to pay for the funeral arrangements his mother wouldve wanted. However, as I have 
explained above, I dont think Royal London have done anything wrong. They paid out the 
sum assured plus the discretionary bonus payable at the time of the claim, and this is what I 
wouldve expected them to do. So, I dont think Royal London applied these bonuses 
unfairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking Royal 
London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Ms W 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 January 2021.
 
Paul LawtonOmbudsman