DRN-3618522
The complaint
Mr A complains that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has declined a claim on his mechanical 
breakdown insurance policy. 
What happened
An issue arose with Mr As vehicle and following a diagnostic test he submitted a claim on 
his insurance policy. However, when AWP was validating the claim, it discovered that the V5 
for the insured vehicle was not in Mr As name but was actually registered to a business that 
was a taxi company. AWP said the policy would not cover an insured vehicle used for taxi or 
private hire services, so it declined the claim.
Mr A says this vehicle is not being used as a taxi or private hire. He says its his private, 
personal vehicle that is registered to his brothers taxi business. Mr A says just because that 
business is a taxi company, that doesnt mean this particular vehicle is used as a taxi or for 
private hire.
AWP didnt agree so Mr A complained to this service. An investigator reviewed the complaint 
and recommended that AWP pay the claim and £250 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
AWP still doesnt agree and its asked for an ombudsman to review this complaint. I issued a 
provisional decision on this complaint on 22 September 2022. I said I was going to uphold 
the complaint, but with a different recommendation. The provisional decision is below and 
forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im thinking of upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
The crux of this complaint is whether AWP has acted fairly and reasonably by declining the 
claim.
The vehicle in question is registered to a business. And that business happens to be a taxi 
company. The V5, belonging to the vehicle has the taxi company listed as the registered 
keeper of the vehicle. Mr A says this is his brothers business. 
AWP has declined this claim because it says cover is excluded under the following term 
This warranty will not cover: An insured vehicle used for courier or private hire services, 
track days, off road use, competitions or racing of any kind. AWP says the fact the 
registered keeper on the vehicles V5 documentation is a taxi company is enough evidence 
to exclude cover. 
Mr A says this vehicle cannot be a taxi, as under local council regulations, its too old to be 
registered as a hackney carriage vehicle. Ive reviewed these regulations and this vehicle is 
too old to be used as a taxi.
But AWP says this doesnt rule out private hire. It says Mr A could be using the vehicle for 
private hire, and this is specifically excluded.
Mr A says he doesnt use the vehicle for private hire. He says this vehicle is his own 
personal vehicle. Mr A has provided evidence of his role in the business, he is a resource 
and maintenance manager. Hes not a driver. Mr A says he was undergoing a divorce from 
his then partner at the time of purchasing the vehicle. Mr A says that at that time, he had no 
fixed address and he was in between places of residence. Because of this he registered the 
vehicle at his brothers business for correspondence purposes, and he says he explained 
this clearly to AWP. 
AWP says it wasnt made clear the business was a taxi company. AWP says the fact the 
vehicle is registered to a taxi company, it could potentially be used for private hire. AWP 
says it will provide cover on a vehicle thats registered to a business. But in this instance, its 
the type of business involved thats causing the issue.
And I can see why this is causing concern. It is very possible Mr A is using this vehicle for 
private hire. But the key here is that the burden of proof lies with AWP to demonstrate that 
the vehicle is being used for private hire. And in this specific instance AWP hasnt provided 
enough to support this claim. I cant see that it asked for any further documentation, it didnt 
check Mr As status in the business, it seems to have ignored the local council private hire 
regulations, and I cant see that its taken into account Mr As testimony. 
I appreciate AWP says the V5 is enough evidence. But Im not inclined to agree. Mr A has 
provided a plausible explanation as to why the V5 has a taxi company as its registered 
keeper. And as AWP knows a V5 isnt actually proof of ownership. The name on the 
document is the entity responsible for registering and taxing the vehicle, not necessarily the 
one who owns it. Further to this I note that AWP were happy to keep the vehicle on cover, as 
yet no premium has ever been returned or offered.
So, AWP now needs to do more.  However, I dont think I can ask AWP to pay the claim. Ive 
spoken to the garage and Mr A. The garage advised that Mr A took the car back in January 
2022. Mr A says its still not repaired. The garage said the only remarks it had on file was 
that the car was blowing smoke from the exhaust. Mr A has provided the diagnostic invoice 
from the garage. It says, investigate smoking from exhaust. So, to be fair to both parties I 
think AWP now needs to reconsider this claim, in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. I also think AWP should pay Mr A £250 in compensation for the 
inconvenience he has experienced from delays so far. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AWP didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mr A did respond. He asked us to clarify the decision, so we replied setting out the 
recommendations in the provisional decision again. Mr A also included a technicians report, 
job card and fault code print out in relation to the engine failure. I note that the diagnosis 
provided by the motor technician is that cylinder eight is misfiring. An endoscope review shows scoring in the engine bore and the technicians recommendation is a new engine 
block and piston replacement. 
I would like to acknowledge the additional information from Mr A. However, the additional 
information has no impact on the recommendations I set out in the provisional decision. The 
additional information will assist AWP as the engine problem has now been diagnosed. But 
Ive only considered the exclusion AWP used to decline this claim in the first instance in this 
final decision. I havent considered whether the actual engine failure is something that is 
covered by this policy. This is now something AWP has to consider without applying the 
exclusion that excludes private hire services. As such, I now direct AWP to reconsider this 
claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. AWP should also pay Mr 
A £250 for the inconvenience caused so far, as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to:
Disregard the private hire services exclusion in the policy and reconsider the claim, 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
Pay £250 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman