DRN-3271306
The complaint
Mr H complains (through a representative) that Morses Club PLC (Morses) isnt reporting 
correct information on his credit file about his loans.
 
What happened
Mr H took three loans between July 2015 and February 2018. Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment date term 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 03/07/2015 29/04/2016 34 £5.00
2 £150.00 24/04/2016 10/02/2017 33 £7.50
3 £300.00 02/02/2018 23/10/2020 33 £15.00
Mr H had some significant repayment problems with loans one and two. While the loans 
have been repaid, it took Mr H 43 weeks to repay loan one and 41 weeks to repay loan two. 
Morses has reported missed payments about these loans on his credit file. 
Mr H also entered into a Scottish Sequestration in March 2019 and he was discharged in 
September 2019.  
Following Mr Hs complaint Morses issued its final response letter (FRL) which said it didnt 
do anything wrong. Morses says the information it has recorded about these loans on Mr Hs 
credit file is an accurate reflection of the running of the loan accounts so it wouldnt be 
making any adjustments to his credit file. 
Mr H was unhappy with this response and referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he didnt think Morses had made an error. He 
made a number of observations including:
Morses had correctly recorded the start and end date for each loan;
Mr H had missed some repayments and this had been recorded on his credit file;
while Morses system showed the final loan was adjusted in October 2020, the 
information on Mr Hs credit report reflected the Sequestration dates; 
any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit file will remain for six years and 
the Sequestration ending wouldnt lead to the adverse information reported either 
being removed or deleted from the credit file. 
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment, in response he sent in a number of 
emails and evidence including a copy of his full credit file. Ive summarised what he has 
provided below:
Morses is reporting incorrect information on the credit file;
all of the information should be backdated to September 2019;
Mr H says that he believes Morses want the record to be removed in 2026 instead of 
2025;
the loan advanced amount reporting on his credit file for loan three and
Mr H asked Morses to pay him £1,000 compensation and remove the adverse 
information and default from his credit file. 
Mr H also provided further comments around his financial situation at the time these loans 
were granted as well as saying these loans were unaffordable. However, these comments 
wouldnt have an impact on whether the information recorded with the credit reference 
agencies is correct. So, Ive not gone into any detail in relation to these comments. 
The adjudicator went back to Mr Hs representative, to say the information recorded on 
Mr Hs full credit report by Morses was correct and an accurate reflection of what happened. 
So, no changes needed to be made. 
He also said, that the starting amount is likely to be different on the final loan because when 
the loan was first reported to the credit reference agencies Mr H had already made some 
repayments, but he didnt think this amount was causing Mr H any detriment  even if the 
starting balance may be wrong. 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start with, I want to be clear, that this complaint doesnt deal with whether Morses made 
an error when approving these loans. This decision will solely deal with the information 
Morses has recorded on Mr Hs credit file and whether it is correct.
Loan one 
For this loan Mr H was due to repay a total of £170 and I can see from the statement of 
account that Mr H began by making his contractual payments as Morses expected. 
However, there are periods of missed payments for example, no payments were made 
towards the loan account in December 2015. 
This wouldve led to arrears being recorded on Mr Hs credit file and Morses would be 
entitled to do this. This is in line with the Information Commissioners Office guidance (ICO) 
note entitled Principles for the Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit 
Reference Agencies. 
The ICO is the body set up to monitor how businesses use personal data, and one of its 
guidance notes is to help lenders make sure the information that it is reporting on a credit file 
is correct. In the ICO guidance, it says:
2. Should a payment not be made as expected, information to reflect this will 
be recorded on your credit file 
If you do not make your regular expected payment by the agreed time and/or for the 
agreed amount according to your terms and conditions, the account may be reported 
to the CRAs as being in arrears.Given the above, which is from the ICO guidances note, I cant say Morses has made an 
error when its recorded arrears with the credit reference agencies when Mr H didnt make his 
payments as expected. Morses has, followed the guidance issued by the ICO in recording 
the arrears with the credit reference agencies.  
Ive also gone on to compare the information Morses says it is reporting, compared to the 
information that Mr H can see on the full credit file that he provided the Financial 
Ombudsman. 
Looking at Mr Hs credit report the start and end date for this loan are correct. It also shows 
missed payments, which appear to reflect that missed payments occurred on the account, so 
from January 2016 adverse information is reported, which matches that Mr H didnt make 
any repayments in December 2015 and so the account was now in arrears. 
Ive also considered the information Morses has provided which is its records of what should 
be recorded with the credit reference agencies and this information matches what I can see 
is actually being reported on Mr Hs credit file. Morses is recording in my view the correct 
adverse information. And Mr Hs credit file is an accurate reflection of the way that he ran the 
account. 
So, Im satisfied, having looked at all of the evidence for this loan, that Mr H missed 
payments, these should be reported to the credit reference agencies and the information 
Morses recorded is accurate. So Morses doesnt need to make any adjustments to the credit 
file for this loan. 
I know Mr H entered into a Sequestration, but this occurred after this loan was taken out and 
fully repaid. So, the Sequestration wouldnt have any bearing on the adverse information 
Morses has reported about this loan. For, example the Sequestration wouldnt lead to the 
deletion of the arrears that are being reported.
The loan was closed in April 2016, so this loan record will be removed from Mr Hs credit file 
after six years, so from the end of April 2022. 
Loan two 
Ive also looked at this loan, and for similar reasons as above Im not upholding Mr Hs 
complaint about this loan either. 
The start and end date on Mr Hs credit file are correct and it shows the loan was fully 
repaid, which again is correct. The credit file entry also shows that Mr H had further 
problems repaying this loan  which is reflected in the statement of account for this loan, for 
example Mr H only made one payment in February 2017.  
It also seems the information Morses says it is reporting about this loan is reflected in the 
information that is on Mr Hs credit file. So, it looks, to me that the information is an accurate 
reflection of the way Mr H ran the loan account. 
Overall, Mr H missed payments which have been reported to the credit reference agencies, 
which, as Ive shown above is in line with the ICO guidance and so I dont think Morses 
needs to make any adjustment to the credit file for this loan. 
And for the same reasons as loan one, the Sequestration has no bearing on the information 
that Morses has reported because it was entered into after this loan had been repaid. This loan was closed in February 2017, so the record will be deleted shortly after February 
2023. 
Loan three  
Loan three, is the loan where Mr H had significant repayment problems and then entered 
into a Sequestration (which is similar to a bankruptcy in England) in March 2019. Ive 
therefore considered whether the information Morses has reported on Mr Hs credit file, is 
reflective of this. 
Mr H had some repayment problems leading up to the Sequestration being granted, and I 
can see in the loan history that there is recognition that payments were missed: this is 
accurate, and therefore should be reported.  
Looking at the loan record, on Mr Hs full credit report (which he provided), I can see that the 
start and end date for this loan are correct. The record has been reported as being defaulted 
from 22 March 2019  which seems to coincide with the Sequestration date and the report is 
showing a defaulted balance of £50. Morses has also reported the default is now satisfied 
with a zero balance. 
To consider if this is correct, Ive taken a look at the ICO guidance I mentioned when 
discussing loans one and two. 
It is worth noting at this point, that in the ICO guidance theres no explicit statement on how 
defaults should reflect on the credit file of a debtor in or a completed Sequestration. But, 
given its equivalence to bankruptcy in England, I think it would be fair to consider what the 
guidance says about what should show on a credit report following a bankruptcy. This 
information can be found in part five of the guidance. The ICO says:
5. When an account is closed, the record should properly reflect the closing 
payment status of the account and any agreement between the parties
If you make a full or part payment and no further money is expected, the account 
should be closed unless you have agreed with your provider to continue your 
relationship. If the account is to be closed, your record should be marked as fully paid 
if: 
You have paid the money owed in full 
A CCJ or decree was granted and you have paid in full the money owed as 
determined by the court
 Your record should be closed and marked as partially settled if:
The lender accepts final settlement of the account for less than the balance 
outstanding 
Your account is included in an insolvency such as a bankruptcy or IVA which 
is discharged / completed and less than the full amount is paid 
The fact that the account was previously in default will remain on your credit file for 6 
years from the date of default. If the account was not in default, the record would 
remain on your credit file for 6 years from the date of closure.
As Ive said above, Mr Hs account is marked as being satisfied, and closed with a zero 
balance. This reporting is in line with what the ICO expects. The ICO also makes it clear the 
record will remain on the credit file for six years from the date of closure, which in this case 
was March 2019 so the record will drop off the credit file in 2025. I havent seen anything in the ICO guidance to suggest the ending of the Sequestration 
leads to the record being removed or deleted from the credit file. 
On Mr Hs credit report, it does show that Morses made an update to the record in 
November 2020. I dont know what this update was and it could be connected to when Mr H 
raised his complaint with Morses. 
But it doesnt change or amend the default date as prescribed by the ICO. The record will 
still be deleted six years after the default was applied, so its likely the record will be removed 
from Mr Hs credit file from around March 2025. The update Morses made, doesnt change 
this date. 
On one screen shot from a different credit file provider to the one that Mr H has supplied his 
full file for, the final loan shows a starting balance of £450. This doesnt reflect either the 
credit advanced - £300 or the total amount that Mr H was due to repay (including the 
interest) of £495. 
Morses has suggested the starting balance showing £450 is because Mr H had already 
made some repayments towards the loan by the time the loan was reporting to the credit 
reference agencies.
I do agree, this amount isnt correct although Morses explanation does appear to fit the 
circumstances. But, I cant see any material detriment being caused to Mr H. It is only the 
starting balance, and the later information would be having a greater impact on his credit 
score than a slightly smaller starting loan balance. So, Im still not intending to ask Morses to 
do anything to put things right for Mr H.  
Overall, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. I appreciate he will be disappointed by the 
outcome Ive reached but I hope my explanation has been helpful in explaining why Ive 
reached the decision that I have. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman