DRN-4184854
The complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited refused indemnity for a claim 
made by a third party on his van insurance policy. And that it has sought recovery of its costs 
from him.  
What happened
Mr D had a van insurance policy with Admiral to cover his pickup truck. In February 2021 he 
was driving with an empty trailer attached to the back of the truck. The side of the trailer 
unclipped and hit some pedestrians. 
Mr D was questioned by police and agreed that he hadnt secured the trailer door properly 
so was responsible for the accident. He received a caution and three points on his licence. 
The pedestrians subsequently made a third-party claim on Mr Ds insurance. Admiral 
refused indemnity for the claim as it said the incident occurred due to the fact the trailer had 
not been correctly secured. And therefore the following exclusion in the policy would apply:
You will not be covered for any liabilities for any of the following:
carrying a load in an unsafe, insecure, or illegal condition or manner or where any of your
vehicle's weight limitations have been exceeded.
Admiral later agreed a settlement outside of court of around £35,000. It wrote to Mr D to 
explain that it would seek to recover this amount from him as the loss wasnt covered under 
the policy.
Mr D made a complaint as he said the trailer was empty, so couldnt reasonably be 
considered a load and the exclusion wouldnt fairly apply. He also didnt think it was fair that 
Admiral had agreed an amount to settle the claim at, without consulting him.
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint so Mr D brought it to this service.
Our investigator thought Admiral had acted fairly and reasonably by declining liability. He 
thought the trailer could reasonably be considered a load. He also said that under the policy 
Admiral had the right to settle claims on Mr Ds behalf how it saw fit, so didnt think Admiral 
had acted unfairly there either. 
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr D asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Refused indemnity
Admirals said the third partys claim wouldnt be covered under the policy as the trailer 
wasnt secured at the time of the accident. And its relied on the policy exclusion that 
removes cover where a load is unsafe or insecure. 
Mr D has said that the word carrying doesnt reasonably apply to a trailer as this would be 
described as pulling or towing. And the trailer was empty, so there was no load.
The policy doesnt define the term load, so Ive considered what a reasonable interpretation 
of the word is in the context. And I think this would be anything of a significant weight or bulk 
that is being carried as an addition to the vehicle. As the trailer is detachable and is of a 
significant weight and bulk even without anything contained in it, I think its reasonable that 
Admiral has classed it as a load. And Mr D has admitted he failed to secure it correctly, so I 
think Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably when applying the exclusion. 
Recovery of costs
Under the Road Traffic Act 1988 (RTA), Admiral is required to settle an unsatisfied 
judgement obtained by a third party where a valid policy is in place. And as part of this, it 
can pursue the policyholder or anyone else named on the policy to recover the costs of this.
In this case, Admiral settled the claim out of court. So, strictly speaking it didnt settle the 
third party claim under the rules of the RTA. However the policy does state that Admiral can:
conduct the investigation, defence and settlement of any claim on your behalf
And goes onto state:
If an incident occurs which is not covered by this policy and we are required by the law of 
any country to make a payment, we can recover that amount from you or any other insured 
person.
Its not unreasonable or unusual for an insurer to step in and settle a claim prior to court 
proceedings. Insurers generally do this to save costs involved in the case going to court. And 
its usually in the best interests of the policyholder. 
For me to conclude Admiral acted unreasonably in settling the third party claim, Id need to 
be satisfied its decision was unfair or unreasonable. By this I mean Id need to be satisfied 
Admiral settled a claim that could have been successfully defended in court, or that it paid 
more than would have been due if the case had gone to court.
Mr D has accepted that he didnt secure the trailer door properly, so that he was at fault. So 
its unlikely the claim would have been successfully defended in court. And the injuries 
obtained by the two pedestrians were relatively substantial, so it seems most likely that once 
fees and legal costs are added the claim would have been more if it had gone through that 
process. 
Admiral has provided a breakdown of the costs it has reimbursed. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest these are inflated or unreasonable. So Im not going to interfere in Admirals 
decision to recover the costs.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman