DRN-3660661
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) has declined a storm damage claim made under his
home insurance policy.
What happened
During bad weather in January 2022, Mr Ws property suffered damage, so he made a storm
damage claim to QIC, his home insurance provider.
QIC inspected the various elements of damage but declined the claim in full. They said:
There wasnt a storm based on the weather conditions
The render was damaged by historic pre-existing debonding due to frost cycles,
which had been highlighted by the weather
The capstones had de-bonded due to deterioration of the mortar which had been
highlighted by the weather
The greenhouse glass wouldve been covered under accidental damage to glass
cover, but repairs would be less than the policy excess
Damage to the roof below the main roof was due to falling debris, rather than storm,
and there is no accidental damage cover
The gazebo wouldnt be covered under the definition of an outbuilding
The damaged timber seating wouldnt be covered under the contents in the open 
policy cover as this excludes damage caused by storm, and there is no accidental 
damage cover
Our investigator looked into things, but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said there was a
storm but didnt believe the damage was due to this. Instead she said the roof capstones
and render was gradual damage, which was excluded, so QIC hadnt acted unfairly by
declining the claim for this.
The investigator also said that another part of the roof was damaged due to falling debris
rather than a storm and not covered. And damage to a Gazebo and seating was also
excluded under the policy. She also said that damage to the greenhouse wouldve been
covered but was less than the policy excess. So she didnt recommend QIC do anything
further.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision. I reached the same outcome on some of the complaint points 
as our investigator, but different outcomes on others. So, I wanted to give both parties an 
opportunity to comment on my provisional findings before I reached my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached a different outcome on some parts of the claim to the position reached 
by QIC - that our investigator agreed with. So, Im issuing a provisional decision to 
give both parties an opportunity to comment on my findings, before I reach my final 
decision.
Firstly, during the bad weather, a Gazebo and seating were damaged. QIC didnt 
cover these on the basis the Gazebo doesnt fall within the policy definition of an 
outbuilding, and the seating because contents in the open excludes storm damage. 
Mr W accepts these arent covered under his policy. But for completeness, Ive also 
looked at the policy terms, and agree they arent covered.
This is because the Gazebo doesnt fall within the definition of an outbuilding  as 
this excludes structures which are open on more than one side. And the seat isnt 
covered as contents in the open policy cover excludes storm damage. I also cant 
see from the information provided that Mr W actually has contents cover in any 
event, as the schedule seems to indicate he only has buildings cover. But even if he 
does have that cover, Im satisfied the seat wouldnt be covered for the reasons 
outlined.
So, I need to consider the remainder of the damage being claimed for  the render, 
the capstones, damage to the roof below and the greenhouse glass  and whether 
QICs decision to decline this is reasonable.
When we look at complaints about storm damage claims, we consider three
questions. If any of the answers to the three questions is no then its likely a claim
wont succeed.
Were there storm conditions?
Mr Ws policy covers storm damage. And the policy defines storm as:
Storm
A period of violent weather defined as:
a. a gale of Force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally 
recognised Beaufort Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55mph; 
or
b. torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or
c. snow that falls to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or
d. hail so severe that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks 
glass.
QIC checked weather records for the date of loss and say there wasnt a storm. The 
records they relied on showed 44mph as the maximum wind gust, so below that 
defined in the policy.
However, the records they relied on also say Data is only to 0900! and not beyond 
that time. I also note the weather station was 15 miles from Mr Ws property.
Ive checked weather records myself for the date of loss. A copy of these have also 
been sent to both parties with my provisional decision. I have checked the two 
weather reporting systems we have available.The first indicates wind speeds of 56mph at around 9am (and after this time too as 
the reports went beyond 9am). This weather data was also taken from weather 
stations around 15 miles away but shows much higher speeds than QICs checks 
showed.
Ive also checked the other tool we have available. This relies on satellite and radar 
and generally gives data to around 1km away. This showed wind speeds of up to 
58mph.
So based on the checks Ive completed, Im satisfied the weather at the time was a 
storm, and within the definition of storm within Mr Ws policy, and considerably higher 
windspeeds than those relied on by QIC.
Mr W has said he believes the windspeeds were in the range of 90mph. Whilst the 
weather data Ive referred to above doesnt necessarily support those levels 
specifically, Mr Ws property is in an exposed location. Therefore, windspeeds could 
have been higher than reported in the data that Ive referred to.
Mr W has also provided video evidence of the wind which does appear significant. 
And photos which the loss adjuster appointed by QIC took also show significant size 
trees have been uprooted outside Mr Ws property. Either way though, Im satisfied 
the weather conditions were more significant than those concluded by QIC and were 
in line with a storm as defined in Mr Ws policy.
Is the damage consistent with storm?
Damage to a roof, greenhouse glass and potentially render could be storm type 
damage, in the right conditions.
Was the storm the main cause of damage?
When considering this point, Ive looked at the different areas of damage separately.
The render
QIC says the render was likely suffering from gradual deterioration due to repetitive 
frost cycles, and it was due to this that the wind was able to get under the render and 
lift it, causing it to break and fall away from Mr Ws property.
Mr W has said he has regularly had it painted but accepts that its age and condition 
may have played a part in the damage.
I would expect render which is in good condition and not suffering from any pre-
existing issues to remain in place during bad weather generally, given part of its role 
is to provide an external coating to protect a property against the elements.The images of that area of the damaged render do appear to show, whilst clearly 
more recently painted, that it is suffering from some age-related deterioration. On 
balance, Im minded to conclude it was this which was highlighted during the bad 
weather and resulted in damage being caused. Mr Ws policy excludes:
We dont cover the following.
12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
- wear and tear;
- fall in value over time;
- gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not);
- exposure to sunlight or atmospheric conditions;
- normal settlement;
- warping or shrinkage ;
- rusting or corrosion;
- wet or dry rot (regardless of the cause) ;
- fungus, mildew or mould;
- infestation (for example by vermin); and
- costs that arise from using or maintaining your buildings and 
contents normally.
And the storm policy cover also says:
We dont cover:
a. loss or damage caused by frost;

c. anything that happens gradually.
So, on balance, unless anything changes as a result of the response to my 
provisional decision, Im minded to conclude QIC hasnt acted unfairly by declining to 
cover the damage to the render.
The roof capstones
QIC has said that the cause of damage to the capstones was a deterioration in the 
mortar. And they say this was highlighted by the weather, and it was this 
deterioration that then caused the damage to occur. So, theyve declined this based 
on the exclusions Ive outlined above.
However, Im not minded to agree with this for several reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly, the surveyor that attended on behalf of QIC said in their report:
We were then invited to inspect damage caused by the dislodged stone 
capstones to the rear gable verge which have fallen damaging a large area of 
the pitched roof below and we would consider these works to be liable as well 
as the glazing which was smashed due to high winds acting on the 
greenhouse opening window. Replacement of a single pane of glass 
(greenhouse) and replacement of stone capstones (main house) is required 
with temporary tiling yet to be replaced with Marley tiles of similar quality and 
repairs to underlying battens and felt undertaken**these works will require 
scaffold access.The surveyor then went on to estimate the costs of repairs to insurers for the works 
they are liable for.
Therefore, it does seem the surveyor acting for QIC was satisfied that this was 
something that should be covered under the policy, and as a result of the weather at 
the time. Theyve made no mention of deterioration of mortar, or that the capstones 
have dislodged due to any other reason.
But from the internal notes provided, it then appears that someone else internally at 
QIC reviewed matters surrounding the render - which Mr W had disputed on site with 
the loss adjuster - which was referred back to insurers. They also revisited the 
capstones as part of this. They decided:
The capstones on the ridge of the roof have de-bonded form (sic) the main 
roof due to deterioration of the mortar holding them in place and this has been 
highlighted by the wind.
However, it is unclear how or why they reached that conclusion, or why it differs to 
that of the surveyor who actually inspected the property. So, I dont find that later 
conclusion persuasive.
In addition, Mr W has also provided a report from his own roofer (a copy has been 
sent to QIC), who actually accessed the roof and completed repairs, and they said:
The overall condition of the outside of the property as a whole was of a high
standard. 
The condition of the roof was also higher than average condition relative to 
other properties I work on. The majority of the roof withstood the exceptional 
storm force winds even though the house is in an exposed position. 
Only one small area was effected and as a result a coping stone was 
dislodged in my opinion due to the force of the very high wind on the exposed 
ridge. This coping stone then fell onto a lower roof causing damage. Both 
areas were repaired, I was also asked to check the other coping stones but 
they were sound. However the owner asked me to replace any cement 
around the ridge. In my opinion this was not necessary but the work still went 
ahead at extra cost which he paid separately. This was not added to the 
insurance quote. On further inspection no other areas of the roof needed 
repairs or updating as it was in good condition.
I would like to state under normal conditions the stone would not have moved 
but due to the extreme conditions and the position of the ridge there was 
enough force to move it. I would also like to state that any structure no matter 
its age or condition can still receive damage if the force is high enough. I 
regularly get called to new builds for similar work to be carried out.
I find their report, in addition to the surveyors original report, persuasive. The images 
of the roof also support it appears well maintained and not suffering from historic, 
gradual or wear and tear issues.
Given the above, and the weather conditions Ive referred to above, which Im 
satisfied show there was a storm, Im minded to conclude that the capstones should 
be covered under Mr Ws policy as storm damage.Mr W had temporary repairs completed prior to QIC attending, and after they rejected 
his claim in full, he had permanent repairs to the capstones (and roof below) carried 
out. I dont think this was unreasonable, given Mr Ws claim had been declined by 
QIC.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im minded to say QIC should reimburse the costs Mr W has incurred in 
having the (temporary and permanent) repairs carried out to the capstones (subject 
to the relevant policy excess). Im also minded to direct QIC to add 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment of the invoices to the date of settlement.
The roof below  damaged by the capstones
QIC has declined the damage to the roof below where the capstones ended up after 
being dislodged. They said it wasnt storm damage (they said the capstones werent 
storm damage related or the consequential damage they caused), and instead was 
damaged by falling debris unconnected to storm damage.
However, Im minded to conclude, for the reasons outlined, the capstones were 
damaged as a result of the storm. Therefore, Im also minded to conclude the 
consequential damage to the roof tiles below was also the result of a storm as that 
was the proximate cause. So, Im minded to conclude the tiles should also be 
covered under Mr Ws policy as storm damage.
As I say, Mr W had temporary repairs followed by permanent repairs carried out after 
QIC rejected his claim. Im minded to direct QIC to reimburse the costs Mr W 
incurred, with 8% simple interest added from date of payment of the invoice to date 
of settlement.
The greenhouse glass
QIC accepted the damage to the greenhouse glass would be covered under Mr Ws 
policy. They said it would be covered under accidental damage to glass standard 
policy cover, rather than as storm damage. But they said the costs of repairs would 
be £77 and the excess was £350, so Mr W didnt have a valid claim as it was less 
than the policy excess.
But Im satisfied the damage was caused by the storm (along with the other damage 
Ive outlined above), and therefore it should also be considered under the storm peril 
 as this doesnt exclude this type of damage.
And whilst the cost would still be the same to repair, the excess would already have 
been taken into account as part of the capstone and roof storm damage claim. 
Consequently, the claim value will likely already be above the applicable policy 
excess, so QIC will also need to include the greenhouse glass settlement within the 
overall claim. The same principle would also apply, that if Mr W has already paid for 
repairs, QIC will also need to add 8% simple interest to the settlement from date of 
payment of any invoice to date of settlement.
The service received
Its clear that having significant damage to your property will be distressing in itself. 
But the distress and inconvenience to Mr W has been added to when QIC declined 
the claim in full which was, in part, unfair in my view for the reasons Ive outlined 
above.With this in mind, unless anything changes due to the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im also minded to direct QIC to pay Mr W £150 compensation.
So I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct QIC Europe Ltd to:
reimburse the costs Mr W has incurred in having the temporary and permanent
repairs carried out to the capstones (subject to the relevant policy excess). 8%
simple interest should also be added from date of payment of the invoice to date of
settlement.
reimburse the costs Mr W incurred in having temporary and permanent repairs to the
roof damaged by the capstones. 8% simple interest should also be added from date
of payment of the invoice to date of settlement.
Settle the greenhouse glass part of the claim. If Mr W has already paid for this, 8%
simple interest should also be added from date of payment of the invoice to date of
settlement.
Pay Mr W £150 compensation
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr W responded agreeing with the provisional decision.
QIC responded but they didnt agree. They said it can be seen that the capstone has 
de-bonded due to deterioration and this is evidenced as some have remained in place. QIC 
said on this basis its clear that this was caused by wear and tear, which was highlighted by 
the wind. They said if it was solely the wind and consequently storm damage, then all of the 
capstones would have come off or moved at the time. 
QIC also said it is important to note that the surveyor had incorrectly said the damage to the 
capstones would be covered.
On this basis, QIC maintain that the damage was as a result of wear and tear, highlighted by 
the wind. Consequently, they also maintain the damage to the roof below also isnt covered.
QIC also maintained that the greenhouse damage wouldnt be covered as this is below the 
policy excess.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also thought carefully about the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision, along 
with the responses received to it. Having done so, my decision remains the same, and for 
the same reasons.
QIC says the surveyor incorrectly advised the capstones would be covered. Whilst I note 
what QIC has said here, they havent clarified why the conclusions the surveyor reached 
were wrong, disregarded and overturned during an internal review.
As I said in my provisional decision, the inspecting surveyor made no comment about the 
condition of the mortar suffering wear and tear, or gradual damage. They also didnt take 
photos which support that position QIC now seeks to rely on.The surveyors conclusions were overturned internally by QIC later, but as I said in my 
provisional decision, there is no rationale or evidence, based on the surveyor report, which 
supports those conclusions later being relied on. So, Im persuaded by the surveyor report 
and conclusions they reached at that time, as they actually inspected the roof, rather than an 
internal secondary review carried out, which has no further evidence to support those new 
conclusions decided by QIC.
I also note QICs views that some capstones remained in place, so they believe this shows 
wear and tear by the fact that some did move, and others didnt. But I dont agree with this 
argument. Just because not all of them moved, doesnt mean the ones that did couldnt have 
been moved due to the storm.
That would be like saying - as an example to illustrate my point - that every single tile on a 
roof would need to be displaced/removed, in order to conclude that there had been storm 
damage to roof tiles. In reality, a storm would generally only displace some tiles, with many 
remaining in their original position, but storm damage ultimately did still occur to some.
Therefore, I dont find QICs argument here persuasive. And I also referred to Mr Ws 
roofers report, which, in addition to QICs original surveyors report, persuades me the 
capstone damage was as a result of the storm, and should be covered under Mr Ws policy.
So, it also follows, Im satisfied the storm was also the proximate cause of the roof damage 
below. And as Mr W has a valid storm claim, it follows that the greenhouse glass should also 
be covered under storm, as the excess will already have been taken into account with the 
remaining roof damage part of the claim. This means the glass repairs, when taking into 
account the other covered repairs, arent less than the excess for the overall storm damage 
claim.
Neither party provided any comments on the render, so my conclusions on that point remain 
the same - that this isnt covered, and for the same reasons outlined in my provisional 
decision.
And my findings remain the same regarding the service Mr W has received, and the 
appropriate compensation I think is warranted for this.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct QIC Europe Ltd to:
reimburse the costs Mr W has incurred in having the temporary and permanent
repairs carried out to the capstones (subject to the relevant policy excess). 8%
simple interest* should also be added from date of payment of the invoice to date of
settlement.
reimburse the costs Mr W incurred in having temporary and permanent repairs to the
roof damaged by the capstones. 8% simple interest* should also be added from date
of payment of the invoice to date of settlement.
Settle the greenhouse glass part of the claim. If Mr W has already paid for this, 8%
simple interest* should also be added from date of payment of the invoice to date of
settlement.
Pay Mr W £150 compensation*If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr W how much its taken off. It should also give Mr W a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman