DRN-2753945
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with AXA Insurance UK Plcs (AXA) handling and settlement of a claim 
made under his home insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2018 Mr M was burgled. A large number of items of jewellery were stolen, along with 
some damage being caused in Mr Ms home during the theft. Mr M made a claim to AXA, the 
provider of his home insurance policy.
AXA asked Mr M to clarify details around how the loss had happened, and some of the items 
being claimed for. Due to the time being taken and questions being asked, Mr M appointed a 
loss assessor to handle the claim on his behalf.
Following further discussion and clarification the claim was mostly settled. But AXA didnt 
settle for a diamond ring as they said they hadnt been given enough substantiation in order 
to validate that item. 
Mr M complained to AXA, he also asked AXA to pay for the loss assessors fees he incurred. 
AXAs decision for the ring remained and they didnt agree to pay for the loss assessor fees. 
However, AXA accepted there were some delays in the claim and they paid £600 
compensation.
As Mr M was unhappy with this, he approached this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that it wasnt unreasonable for AXA 
not to pay for the ring in question, as not enough information had been provided in order for 
AXA to validate it. 
She also didnt recommend that AXA pay the loss assessor fees as Mr M had chosen to 
appoint them, and its not something the policy covers. She also acknowledged there were 
some delays but thought the £600 offered already was reasonable.
As Mr M didnt agree, an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst Ive considered all the information provided by both parties, I dont intend to comment 
on every event which occurred throughout the claim. Instead Ill focus on the three main 
issues, but everything that happened has been taken into account when reaching my final 
decision.
Diamond ring
During the theft, a large number of jewellery items were stolen. AXA has settled the entire 
jewellery claim, except for one ring. Based on the description of the ring, AXAs jewellery 
specialist concluded it would be worth around £28,500, which is significantly higher than the 
remainder of the jewellery items claimed for which have been settled.
AXA hasnt settled the claim for this ring as they say not enough substantiation has been 
provided by Mr M. During the validation of the claim, Mr M provided AXA with receipts for 
three diamond rings. Alongside those, there were diamond certificates for two of them.
The claims for the two rings which had receipts and corresponding diamond certificates were 
settled by AXA. These were for a much lower value than the ring valued at £28,500, which 
didnt have a corresponding diamond certificate. AXA also questioned why the receipt for 
this high value ring, which was bought at the same time as one of the others, was in different 
handwriting, with different invoice numbers which werent sequential. AXA says this hasnt 
been sufficiently clarified.
As part of the attempt to validate this item, AXA also asked for additional information, such 
as bank or credit card statements in order to support the claim. This is because it was said 
the ring was bought part cash and part payment on a relatives credit card, but this 
information hasnt been provided and Mr M says hes unable to get this information. And 
during the claim consideration, it hasnt been clear which photos related to this ring being 
claimed for as there was some discussion around which items tied to which photo, and 
information. So based on the information provided, AXA hasnt been able to validate this 
item as they say not enough substantiation has been provided. 
Given the value of the ring, I dont think AXA has acted unreasonably in not settling the claim 
for this item based on the information provided so far. Its not unreasonable, given the value, 
that AXA would need further information in support of it. Whilst Mr M has said his policy 
covers valuables with no single article limit, that doesnt mean AXA isnt entitled to ask for 
substantiation of an item being claimed for. AXA has said that if any additional information 
can be provided then they will consider the item further, but based on the information they 
have so far, theyve not been able to validate the item. In the circumstances, I think AXAs 
position is fair, so Im not going to direct them to pay for the ring based on the information 
provided.
Claim handling
Mr M is unhappy with the overall length of time taken and handling of his claim. The original 
loss was in May 2018, and the final settlement payment (excluding the ring) was made in 
April 2020. Overall that appears to be quite a long time, but I dont think thats solely due to 
AXAs handling of the claim. There were some delays (not solely relating to AXA) but further 
enquiries and clarification were needed during the course of the claim, which meant it took 
longer. But I think the compensation AXA already paid for the delays they caused is 
reasonable and Im not going to ask them to increase this, Ill explain why.
Following the burglary, AXA needed further information in order to consider and validate the 
claim. This was mainly due to clarification being needed around when the loss occurred, and 
some of the items (including the ring) being claimed for. 
When AXA received the Police report, this showed a difference in the time the loss was said 
to have occurred. The Police report indicated a different time to that of a receipt 
Mr M submitted which he said was to show when the loss happened. AXA asked Mr M for 
clarification several times and considered the responses, also asking for further information 
from a neighbour and phone companies to support the claim. Mr M appointed a loss assessor in November 2018 to deal with AXA on his behalf. Enquiries 
continued and additional information was asked for until December 2018 when the claim was 
passed over to the relevant team to proceed to settlement.
After the claim was moved to the settlement team, following further discussion around the 
ring and other items being claimed for, an interim payment for the majority of the claim 
(excluding the ring and some of the damage inside the home) totalling around £60,000 was 
paid in April 2019. 
Following this, Mr Ms loss assessor advised he would obtain further information from Mr M 
in support of the remainder of the claim, but despite AXA chasing them, they didnt respond 
until October 2019. AXA responded to the loss assessor at the time, but they didnt contact 
AXA again until February 2020. And the remainder of the claim totalling around £4,000 
(excluding the ring) was settled in April 2020.
Having looked at what happened between the theft and the claim being settled, I agree there 
were some delays caused by AXA. However, there were also necessary enquiries into the 
claim before it could proceed which meant things took longer. AXA werent solely 
responsible for all of the delays overall, especially after the interim payment was made in 
April 2019, as Ive mentioned above. 
AXA accepts there were some delays caused by them in the earlier stages and this is why 
they paid £600 compensation. Having considered everything that happened, I think the 
compensation paid already is fair in the circumstances, so Im not going to ask AXA to 
increase this.
Loss assessor fees
Mr M says he appointed a loss assessor due to AXAs handling of his claim and the amount 
of time taken by AXA considering it. He says he felt it was a necessary step in order to 
progress his claim, and once the loss assessor was appointed, AXA moved the claim 
forward. 
Mr M says he was unhappy with the questions he was being asked by AXA when they were 
validating the claim in the early stages, and he says he needed a professional representative 
to deal with AXA on his behalf.
However, the questions being asked were in order to validate the loss, and to clarify the 
discrepancies which Ive mentioned above. I agree this took some time and there were some 
delays attributable to AXA, but I think AXA has fairly compensated Mr M for this. With any 
claim, the policyholder will need to substantiate their loss, and theyll need to provide 
information to do so. And if there are discrepancies, then its not unreasonable for an insurer 
to ask further questions to consider things further before proceeding with the claim.
Whilst I appreciate Mr M was unhappy with the questions he was being asked, I dont think 
they were unreasonable, and they were part of validating the claim. And it was Mr Ms 
decision to appoint a loss assessor to deal with AXA on his behalf. The policy doesnt cover 
this cost, and it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to direct AXA to pay this cost when I 
dont think AXAs claim handling (aside from some delays which Ive mentioned above  and 
which theyve compensated for) was unreasonable.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman