DRN-2052950
The complaint
Mr A complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined his pet 
insurance claim and about its service. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
Mr A had pet insurance for his cat, insured by Red Sands. In August 2019 he took his cat to 
the vet for a vaccination. The vet found a lump which she thought was likely to be a soft 
tissue lump and the vet notes said the lump was possibly in region of injection site sarcoma. 
The vet recommended tests be done on the lump and a pre-authorisation request for the 
tests was sent to Red Sands. 
Red Sands declined the claim. It said the vet notes showed the lump was probably related to 
the vaccinations the cat had and the policy excluded cover for costs for or related to 
vaccinations. Red Sands told Mr A that if his vet could provide evidence that vaccinations 
werent the likely cause it would reconsider.
Mr A complained to us. He said he contacted the vet but had no reply so he complained to 
Red Sands. His cat had developed more growths so Mr A paid for the tests and the vet told 
him the lumps were probably cancerous. His cat was going to have more tests. Mr A said 
hed done everything he should to protect his cat with vaccinations and Red Sands should 
pay the treatment costs if his cat had cancer. He also said Red Sands should contact the vet 
to discuss the matter because he didnt have the specialist knowledge to deal with medical 
matters. 
Sadly while the complaint was with us Mr As cat passed away. Mr A said his cat had an 
aggressive cancer and the delays with Red Sands contacting the vet resulted in his cat 
having an inoperable cancer.
Our investigator said Red Sands fairly declined the claim. He hadnt seen any evidence of 
delays by Red Sands and asked if Mr A had evidence.
Mr A didnt provide any further evidence but wants an ombudsmans decision as he doesnt 
agree Red Sands acted fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide whether Red Sands fairly and reasonably declined the claim and acted fairly, 
and I think it did. Im sorry to disappoint Mr A but I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The policy excludes cover for costs for or related to vaccination and any claim as a result of 
the procedure.
The vet notes say the lump found on Mr As cat in August 2019 was possibly an injection site 
sarcoma. Feline injection site sarcoma is a type of cancer that forms underneath the skin at 
the injection site of a vaccine.
On the vet evidence Red Sands had when it received the pre-authorisation request I think it 
could reasonably understand that the lump was likely to be an injection site sarcoma, the vet  
hadnt noted any other likely cause.
Red Sands received the pre-authorisation request for tests on the lump from Mr As vet on 
5 September 2019. It sent Mr A a decline of claim letter the same day and when it spoke to 
Mr A later that day Red Sands told him that if his vet could provide information the lump 
wasnt related to the vaccination it would reconsider the claim, which was reasonable.
Red Sands acted fairly in contacting Mr A to ask for that information, rather than his vet, as  
he is Red Sands customer and Id expect it to correspond with him.
Mr A complained to Red Sands on 23 January 2020. It acted fairly at that point in phoning 
his vet on 7 February 2020 to ask for further information about the lump. The vet practice 
said it hadnt seen Mr As cat since September 2019 and no further investigations had been 
carried out. 
I havent seen any other communication between Red Sands and Mr As vet and theres no 
evidence Red Sands delayed in its decision. On the information it had from speaking to the 
vet its continued decline of the claim was reasonable.
Red Sands final response letter to Mr A on 10 February 2020 also said it would review the 
pre-authorisation request if there was a diagnosis which confirmed the cancer lump was 
unrelated to the vaccination. Mr A says the tests he paid for didnt show whether the cancer 
was related to the vaccination. I dont think Red Sands has seen evidence of the further 
tests. But as Mr As vet suspected feline injection site sarcoma I think Red Sands could fairly 
say there would have to be evidence the cancer probably wasnt an injection site sarcoma 
for it to pay for the tests.
On the evidence it had Red Sands fairly relied on the exclusion for claims related to 
vaccinations to decline the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman