DRN-4446960
The complaint
W, a limited company, is unhappy with ClearBank Limited trading as Tide (Tide) as it wont 
refund the money it lost as a result of a third-party scam.
W is represented its director - Mr E. It was Mr E who fell victim to the scam  so for ease I 
have referred to him throughout this decision.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
On 16 August 2022, Mr E was contacted by someone who claimed to be from Tides fraud 
department. They called from a number connected with Tide. They told him that his accounts 
were at risk, and he needed to move all his money into two safe accounts  one of which 
was in Mr Es name. Mr E was sent a QR code which he scanned. Two transfers were made 
from Mr Es Tide account of £50,000 and £45,915.02 totalling £95,915.02. But soon after Mr 
E realised hed been the victim of a scam and tried to call Tide straightaway.
Tide did not uphold the complaint. It said it isnt subscribed to the voluntary Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code. However, it did accept there were some delays in it 
reporting the fraud to the beneficiary bank(s). On this basis, it offered to refund £33,349.97 
from the second transaction which it felt could have been recovered if it had acted sooner. It 
was also able to recover £4,600.02. In addition, it offered £150 for the delays and 
communication from its end.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She felt the account activity was suspicious and 
unusual. On this basis, she considered Tide should have contacted Mr E for more 
information and, if it had, the scam would have been unveiled. She also felt that there was 
no contributory negligence.
Tide accepted that it should have intervened, but it felt there were instances where Mr E 
should have been concerned about the actions he was taking  so liability should be split 
equally. It offered to pay £28,982.52  representing 50% of the remaining lost funds. 
Our investigators opinion remained the same and Mr E did not accept Tides offer, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Authorisation
The question of authorisation is a key one in a case of this kind. Because, although its not in 
dispute that Mr E didnt set out to be scammed, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), and general banking terms and conditions, he is presumed liable in the first 
instance if he authorised the transactions. 
Mr E says he didnt authorise the transactions. Whether Mr E made the transactions himself 
or was tricked into allowing them to be made (for example by scanning the QR code to 
enable what he thought was his bank to authorise them) means they are authorised, even 
though Mr E may have been tricked into doing so and was the victim of a scam. I appreciate 
he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers. But, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, he is presumed liable for the 
loss in the first instance. But the matter doesn't end there.
Although Tide is not a signatory to the CRM Code, as a digital business banking provider, 
taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Tide should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I am not going to go into detail here  as Tide has accepted that it ought to have intervened 
 but for completeness I do agree. These two payments emptied out the account entirely in a 
short span of time. They were by far the largest transactions Mr E had made. I think Tide 
ought to have been concerned about the activity and done more than it did. 
I think if it had done so, it was more likely to break the spell and the scam likely unveiled. So, 
I think Tide should refund both transactions.
Should W share in the responsibility for its losses?
Ive thought about whether W should bear some responsibility for its loss by way of 
contributory negligence, but I dont think it should. W fell victim to a sophisticated scam. The 
scam took place over a short period of time and in the heat of the moment, in a pressured 
situation. This is of course a deliberate tactic by the fraudster/s to create fear  in the hope it 
would disrupt Mr Es thinking and make him more compliant. 
I dont agree with Tide that W shouldve possessed any special knowledge about safe 
account scams. From what Ive seen, W is a relatively small business. Im not persuaded 
that W can reasonably be expected to have had an understanding of this type of fraud or 
how to protect itself against it. Tide was the professional here and is more familiar with this 
type of scam.
From what Mr Es said, the scammer knew personal details about him and they had 
knowledge of Ws account balance and genuine transactions that had occurred. The number he was called from was the same as the genuine number. Therefore, this gave Mr E further 
reassurance he was speaking with his bank. Overall, he was convinced that he was talking 
to Tides fraud department and taking action to protect the funds in all his accounts. I can 
understand why the fraud initially went undetected by Mr E. 
It seems to me by the time Tide sent the one-time passcode with the warning that Tide 
would never ask him to move funds  Mr E realised and says he did not enter the code 
himself and tried to call Tide. But by then of course  he had already given the scammers 
authority and (as Tide acknowledged) it would have been the scammers who entered the 
one-time passcode at this point.
I do accept Mr E being called by a spoofed number is something that isnt Tides fault. This is 
not an argument being used against Tide. But the starting position is W should be fully 
refunded. I would only make a deduction if I thought Mr E, on behalf of W, had acted 
unreasonably in some way. And I cant say he has here.
On balance, in the circumstances of the scam  including the real fear that he might lose all 
Ws money; I dont think Mr Es actions were unreasonable.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for W, ClearBank Limited trading as Tide should refund W in full 
less anything already paid or recovered (I understand this amounts to a refund of 
£57,965.03). Because W has been deprived of this money, I consider it fairest that Tide adds 
8% simple interest to the refund above from the date of the transactions to the date of 
settlement.
If Tide is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send W a tax deduction 
certificate so W can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and ClearBank Limited trading as Tide 
should put things right for W as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman