DRN-3823509
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited unfairly requested payments 
following the cancellation of a car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A insured his car through Hastings. After the insurer notified him of its intention to cancel 
the policy, Hastings took an instalment payment. Mr A cancelled the payment through his 
bank. Hastings requested this amount be paid, as well as a further amount it said was due 
for the cover it had provided.
Mr A complained to Hastings. He said it had requested these payments after the policy had 
been cancelled and hed been told he didnt owe anything further. 
Hastings rejected his complaint and Mr A referred it to our service. Our investigator thought 
Hastings had acted fairly and the amounts requested by Hastings were due for the cover 
which had been in place. Mr A didnt accept this and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im unaware of any complaint made about the insurers decision to cancel the policy. From 
the information available to me, this seems to have been because the driving score detected 
by telematics fitted to Mr As car fell below the required level. I wont comment on the merits 
of this.
The terms and conditions of the policy say:
We and your insurer can cancel your policy at any time by sending you seven days written 
notice to the last postal or email address on our system, stating why the policy has been 
cancelled.
I can see this is what happened here. Weve been provided with a copy of a letter sent to Mr 
A which says that the policy will be cancelled, because his driving score had fallen below the 
required level. The letter detailed that no cancellation fees would be charged, that Mr A 
could cancel himself to avoid an insurer enforced cancellation being recorded, and that he 
had 20 days in which to secure alternative cover.
A further letter was sent 20 days later, confirming the policy had been cancelled. This also 
detailed the total cost of the cover Mr A had received, and the amounts hed paid to date 
(which included the disputed instalment). This left an outstanding balance of £28.47, so 
payment was requested for this amount.
Mr A had been paying the premium in instalments of £121.74 per month. A payment for this 
amount was taken by Hastings a week before the policy was cancelled, but after the letter 
notifying Mr A of the cancellation was sent. Mr A stopped the payment through his bank, so 
Hastings are seeking this amount from him.
Mr A says it was unfair for Hastings to take this payment as the policy was going to be 
cancelled a matter of days later. At this point, its important to note that while Mr A was 
paying in monthly instalments, this was to repay a credit agreement, rather than providing 
cover for that specific month. Mr A had entered into a credit agreement at the start of the 
policy  with the full premium being paid by the creditor, with Mr A then repaying the creditor 
in monthly instalments. As such, he was paying £121.74 each month to pay off the credit 
agreement, not to pay for the insurance policy. 
The total cost of the cover from the policy start date to the cancellation date was £515.47. At 
the point of cancellation, Mr A had paid £365.26 of the credit agreement which would go 
towards that amount. The amount hed paid off would have been £487.00 if the monthly 
instalment had been paid as it should have been. There was a shortfall of £28.47, which is 
the amount Hastings requested from Mr A.
Where a policy is cancelled mid-term, and no claim has been made, an insurer is entitled to 
retain the premium for the period of cover which has been provided. Thats what Hastings is 
doing here. The amount due for the period Mr A was covered for is £515.47. 
The terms and conditions specifically reference this, by saying:
Where a policy is cancelled for whatever reason, the instalments that have been paid may 
not be sufficient to pay for the cover received. In this case, the amount owed for the cover 
received will need to be paid after cancellation plus any interest and fees that apply, see 
your Consumer Credit Agreement.
Im satisfied that Hastings is entitled to ask for payments of £121.74 and £28.47 from Mr A. 
The instalment of £121.47 was due in line with his credit agreement, and the amount of 
£28.47 was the shortfall between the amounts paid (or due to be paid by instalment) and the 
cost of the cover provided.
Im aware Mr A says he was told by Hastings that no amount was due when he spoke to its 
representative before the cancellation, but Ive seen no evidence to support that such a 
comment was made. 
In any case, the amounts due were set out in correspondence he received and had been 
fairly calculated in line with the terms and conditions of the policy and agreements hed 
entered into. On that basis, I dont think an error being made in one conversation with 
Hastings would mean its unreasonable for Hastings to request these amounts from Mr A.
I conclude that Hastings has acted fairly in requesting payments from Mr A for the period of 
cover he was provided. 
My final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman