DRN-2364700
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Cofunds Limited (Cofunds) did not provide suitable online access to 
her accounts following a system upgrade. Mrs G complains that she continued to be charged 
despite not being able to access her accounts online.  
What happened
Mrs G held eight accounts with Cofunds  three in her own name and 5 jointly with her 
husband. Cofunds made changes to their online system in August 2019 which resulted in 
Mrs G not being able to access her accounts online. This continued until October 2019 when 
she was able to access 3 of her accounts online after Cofunds provided her with an IT 
workaround.
Mrs G complained to Cofunds saying that as she could not access her accounts, she didnt 
think that fees should be applied in the normal manner and that they had failed in delivering 
its service obligations. Cofunds investigated Mrs Gs complaint and acknowledged that 
online access was affected following their system update. The actual fault was found to lie in 
the browser that Mrs G used and a workaround was suggested to Mrs G which she was able 
to use in October 2019.
Cofunds initially offered Mrs G £200 in recognition of the trouble and upset that their system 
change had caused. Mrs G rejected this offer and Cofunds offered a further £100 making a 
total of £300 in compensation. Mrs G did not accept this amount and referred her complaint 
to the service.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Gs complaint and found that Cofunds had not acted 
fairly and upheld the complaint. The investigator asked Cofunds to increase their 
compensation amount for the trouble and upset caused to Mrs G to £400.
Cofunds did not agree with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review 
the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators view for much of the same reasons and will 
be upholding the complaint.
The reasons for the issue which prevented Mrs G from accessing her account are 
acknowledged by both parties and Cofunds have said that their system upgrade prevented 
Mrs G from accessing her accounts and have admitted the fault. Its not my intention to go 
into more detail on the problems caused but to determine what impact this had on Mrs Gs 
ability to use the service.
When assessing if a business has done anything wrong, I need to look at the service it 
provides and what it says it will provide. If there are any failings or shortcomings 
then they should attempt to put the client back into the position had the error not occurred. 
This is not possible for this complaint so Cofunds have offered compensation that they feel is 
suitable in the circumstances.
I have reviewed the terms and conditions that Mrs G signed up to and note that it says, This 
is principally an online service that is used to manage products. Taking this statement into 
account and the fact that Mrs G could not access her account online I think that Cofunds 
failed to deliver what they said they would.
Cofunds have said that the website isnt always available and it doesnt guarantee that it 
would remain uninterrupted or free from bugs. I acknowledge that websites do occasionally 
suffer from outages and glitches but the issues that Mrs G faced were lengthy and made 
online access impossible. 
I have reviewed the charges that were applied to Mrs Gs accounts. I can see that there is no 
specific online access charge and Cofunds have argued that the charges represent the 
administration and safe custody of Mrs Gs investments. Mrs G has incurred charges in the 
region of £250 during the period where she was unable to access her accounts online.
Cofunds did provide Mrs G with workarounds and she was able to contact Cofunds during 
office hours which would have allowed her to use the service. I have not seen any evidence 
that Mrs G suffered any financial loss as a result of her not being able to access her 
accounts online so Im not going to ask Cofunds to do anything here.
Cofunds offered Mrs G £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. The 
investigator asked Cofunds to increase this to £400 as Mrs G felt the need to move her 
investments to a new provider. Cofunds declined to increase their offer.
Having looked at the information available to me, I think that Cofunds did not provide the 
service in a way that Mrs G signed up to which was to access her accounts online. Although 
she has not suffered any financial loss, I think that she has been without online access for a 
lengthy period and as she has had to contact Cofunds on numerous occasions, she has 
suffered a level of trouble and upset.
The investigator suggested that Cofunds pay an additional £100 in recognition that Mrs G 
felt she needed to move to a new provider. I think that this is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation. 
  
Putting things right
 I require Cofunds Limited to pay Mrs G an additional £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
 
My final decision
 For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 Brian Gray
Ombudsman