DRN-3949728
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Link Financial did not 
write off her debt due to her medical issues and took too long to notify her of this.   
What happened
Mrs J and her husband Mr J, though this decision will focus on Mrs Js account only, have 
asked Link on multiple occasions over the years to write off their debts due to their medical 
issues. They have explained that they are on a debt management plan arranged by a third-
party debt management company and are unlikely to pay off the debt in their lifetime. And 
they do not want to have any debt remaining when they pass due to religious reasons. 
Mrs J does not think Link have fully considered her medical issues when they declined to 
write off the debt and says it took them over seven months to reach the decision, which she 
feels is too long. During that time, Mr J had to chase Link for updates. Also, Mr J, on behalf 
of Mrs J, wanted to know how much their debt had been bought for by Link but they refused 
to share this information. And Mrs J asked for copies of their original credit agreements 
which Link could not produce.
Mrs J referred her complaint to our service and an Investigator looked into it. They explained 
that they felt it was reasonable that Link declined to write off Mrs Js debt due to her medical 
issues and that they were therefore able to continue collecting the debt. They also felt it was 
reasonable that Link asked Mrs J for information about her medical conditions and for 
evidence of other firms writing off her debts to see if they had missed anything. They 
explained Link was under no obligation to tell Mrs J how much they bought her debt for and 
that Link not having the original credit agreements means the debt may be unenforceable, 
but Link is still able to fairly collect on the account. 
However, the Investigator felt that it took Link too long to reach a decision about writing off 
Mrs Js debt. They explained that seven months did not feel reasonable and recommended 
£100 compensation in recognition of this.
Link disagreed with the recommendation. They said there was no set timescale for 
responding to a write-off request and that it will differ with each request. Mrs J also 
disagreed with the outcome and still felt Link had not acted reasonably.
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. I think it was 
reasonable for Link to decline Mrs Js request for a medical write-off of her debts, but I think 
it took too long to reach this decision and should pay Mrs J £100 compensation in 
recognition of this.  
Mr and Mrs J have raised a number of complaint points and I trust that they will not take the 
fact that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised, but is to set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them.
I firstly considered Links decision not to write off Mrs Js debt. I can see Mrs J has made 
multiple requests for this over the years, but I will only be focussing on the October 2021 
request. Ultimately, the decision to write off a debt is a commercial one for Link to make. But 
Link does have an obligation to ensure that a debt is affordable to be repaid, that continuing 
to pursue the debt is reasonable and that they are helping vulnerable customers 
appropriately. 
Ive considered Mrs Js circumstances and reviewed the evidence provided to Link in 
October 2021. Mr J has said she was suffering from a history of depression, as well as 
hearing loss which she could not wear hearing aids for due to her vertigo. Ive considered 
whether it was reasonable for Link to continue to pursue the debt without it being 
unaffordable or unfairly impacting Mrs Js health. 
On balance, taking into account the doctors notes, theres nothing to suggest the conditions 
are so serious as to either stop Mrs J from working or to indicate that collection would be 
inappropriate. And Link has explained its own internal criteria came to the same conclusion. I 
can see Link assessed the affordability of the payment plan at that time for Mrs J and they 
deemed it to be affordable. Considering the payment plan had been agreed with a debt 
management company that was working on behalf of Mrs J, I think its more likely it was 
affordable. With this in mind, I think Links decision not to write off Mrs Js debt was 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr J, on behalf of Mrs J, is frustrated that he was asked to provide medical 
evidence at a time when it was more difficult to get doctor appointments. But I dont think it is 
unreasonable for Link to request evidence prior to considering a medical write off as they 
have to make a decision based on the relevant facts. And it appears this is something Mr J 
has had to do in the past when asking Link for a write-off, so he was aware of the process. 
On balance, I think Link asked for the information it required to come to a reasonable 
decision relating to the write-off request. 
I understand Mr J has complained that Link will not tell him and Mrs J how much they 
purchased their debt for. While I can understand why they would want to know this 
information, I have to agree that Link is not obliged to provide it. So, I cant agree they have 
made an error by not divulging this to Mr and Mrs J. 
Mr and Mrs J have also asked Link to provide the original credit agreements for their debts. 
As Link were not the original creditors, they had to contact the original creditors to request 
this information. However, due to the age of the accounts, these are no longer available. It 
appears that Link has attempted to get hold of these documents and kept Mr and Mrs J 
informed when they were unable to locate them.
Ive considered the length of time it took Link to provide Mrs J with a response to her write-
off request. I can see Mrs Js medical documents were received by Links offices on 27 
October 2021. And theyve evidenced these were reviewed on 18 November 2021. 
However, a response was not provided to Mrs J until 14 May 2022 when Mr J telephoned 
the offices. 
Ive considered Links comments that there is no set timescale for a review and this will vary case by case. And I can see that Mr J was told in early November 2021 that it could be over 
three months before he received a response. Having done so, I dont agree six months from 
the documents being reviewed to a decision being reached and communicated is reasonable 
in these specific circumstances. I can see no reason for the prolonged delay, especially as 
previous requests had been considered in a matter of days or couple of months. 
On balance, I do think the recommendation of £100 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances and is broadly in line with what I would have recommended.   
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Js complaint in part and instruct Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as 
Link Financial to pay her £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman