DRN-3599919
The complaint
Ms J complains that Atlanta Insurance Intermediaries Limited (Atlanta), trading as Swinton 
Insurance, twice renewed her contents insurance policy without her consent and has 
charged her a cancellation fee.
What happened
Ms J bought contents insurance online using a price comparison website. The following year 
the policy renewed automatically. While she hadnt wanted to renew, she left the policy to 
run because of personal circumstances. The following year, the policy renewed yet again. 
Ms J complained to Atlanta that she hadnt agreed to renew and Atlanta hadnt sent her a 
policy renewal notice.
Atlanta looked into her complaint and said shed chosen to renew her policy automatically 
when she first bought it. Atlanta also said it had sent the renewal notices to the email 
address shed provided.
Ms J repeated that she hadnt received the renewal notices. 
Atlanta cancelled the policy at Ms Js request, but she was unhappy that it charged her a 
cancellation fee. She brought her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Js complaint. She said the evidence showed that Atlanta 
had sent the renewal notices, so she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Ms J didnt agree. She said the email address our investigator said Atlanta used was 
incorrect. She also said shed closed her email account before the second renewal period, 
so Atlanta wouldve received notification that the email wasn't delivered. Therefore, Ms J 
thought Atlanta wouldve known she hadnt received the renewal notice. She also pointed 
out that she didnt inform Atlanta of her change of email address because she hadnt opted 
for automatic renewal and didnt think it wouldve incorrectly renewed for a second time. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Ms J will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Automatic renewal
The issue is that Ms J doesnt think Atlanta shouldve automatically renewed her policy two 
years running. 
Ive looked at the evidence Atlanta provided which shows the screens Ms J completed online 
when she bought the policy. The screens show that Ms J preferred email contact, she 
provided her email address, and she also selected automatic renewals. 
Based on this evidence, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Atlanta to renew the policy 
automatically in the first year. 
Ms J says she didnt have the time to chase up with Atlanta about the policy renewal in the 
first year, so she accepted it. I can understand that. However, as theres no evidence that Ms 
J told Atlanta she didnt want to renew for the second year, and she hasnt claimed to have 
done so before the policy renewed, I cant say that Atlanta  did anything wrong by renewing 
the policy again.
Renewal notice
Ms J said other companies issue a renewal notice, but she didnt receive anything from 
Atlanta. Atlanta provided screen shots of its system which shows it emailed the renewal 
notices to Ms J, but she didnt open them. Looking at the email address Atlanta used, it 
matches that supplied by Ms J and she confirmed she received earlier emails from Atlanta 
sent to the same address.
I have no reason to doubt that Ms J didnt see the renewal notices. Atlantas evidence shows 
she didnt open them. But as Atlanta sent the notices to the email address Ms J supplied, 
and it has evidenced that they were delivered, I cant reasonably conclude that it didnt send 
the renewal notices.
Email address
Ive noted Ms Js comment that the email address our service said Atlanta used was not 
correct. Ive checked the address shown on Atlantas screenshots and it matches the one Ms 
J provided  including the dot.
Even using the correct address, Ms J says the emails wouldve bounced back to Atlanta 
because she closed her email account before the second renewal period. I have no reason 
to doubt she closed her account, but the records dont show a returned email so I cant 
reasonably say Atlanta received one. As Ms J chose email as her preferred method of 
contact, it wouldve been her responsibility to ensure Atlanta had the up to date address. 
Had she done so, she mightve received the second renewal notice. I cant hold Atlanta 
responsible for not having Ms Js up to date details.
Cancellation Fee
When Ms J brought her complaint to this service, she said she didnt think it was ethical for 
Atlanta to charge her a cancellation fee. I havent identified anything in the evidence to show 
that Ms J complained to Atlanta about the charge, so its not within my remit to comment on 
whether or not it was appropriate. If Ms J remains unhappy with the charge, she may wish to 
raise this with Atlanta in the first instance.
In summary, the evidence shows that Atlanta sent the appropriate renewal notices to the 
email address Ms J provided and it automatically renewed the policy in line with her 
preference selections when she bought the policy. For the reasons Ive given, Im satisfied 
that Atlanta hasnt done anything wrong.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman