DRN-3306255
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was given unsuitable advice to switch a personal pension to a self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) in 2015. He holds Wellington Court Financial Services 
Limited (Wellington Court) responsible for his losses.
What happened
Mr S has explained that he was cold called by a company informing him that his personal 
pension could provide higher growth if he transferred it.
Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation Limited (GMTC) received Mr Ss application to open an 
Orbis SIPP on 8 June 2015. GMTC opened the Orbis SIPP for Mr S and on 21 July 2015 
£33,684.40 was transferred from Mr Ss personal pension scheme.
GMTC say that no investment instructions were received for Mr Ss SIPP though. And the 
funds in his SIPP remained in the SIPP deposit account. Included within the application was 
an Adviser Remuneration Form. It was signed by Mr S to authorise GMTC to pay a 1% 
adviser fee to Wellington Court.
On 16 June 2016 Mr Ss pension fund was transferred from the GMTC Orbis SIPP to a 
different SIPP.
Mr S complained to Wellington Court in June 2019, via legal representation, about the 
advice to switch pensions. Wellington Court never responded to his complaint. So the 
complaint was brought to our service to look into. 
Wellington Court responded to us to say that Mr S had never been one of its clients so he 
couldnt bring a complaint against them. It explained it had no evidence relating to Mr Ss 
allegation and that any documents that appear to connect Wellington Court to Mr S must be 
fraudulent.
Our investigator looked into the matter and concluded that the application form, and payment 
of an adviser fee to Wellington Court was enough evidence to conclude that this complaint 
was something that our service could look into.
As Wellington Court maintain that Mr S has never been its customer, the case has been 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case to give both parties the opportunity to know my 
thoughts and respond. In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the case was in 
our jurisdiction. And then explained my thoughts on the merits of Mr Ss complaint. 
Review of evidence described in my provisional decision
1. Documents provided by Mr S and GMTC
I. An undated letter to GMTC, sent on Wellington Court headed paper, applying to the 
Orbis SIPP for Mr S. The letter said that it was enclosing an application for the Orbis 
SIPP, investment instructions and an invoice. It was date-stamped as being received 
by the PAN Group (administrators and trustees) on 8 June 2015. The letter is signed 
on behalf of a Mr P from Wellington Court. The signature is indecipherable. 
II. The Orbis SIPP New Application Checklist. This was a series of tick boxes for 
various documents that the adviser had to check were included with the application. 
Under Member Investment Instruction Letter the box for No was ticked. Like the 
covering letter, this appears to be signed on behalf of Mr P from Wellington Court 
rather than by Mr P himself. Under the signature Mr Ps name has been printed by 
hand. The first name was spelt incorrectly at first but was corrected. An incorrect 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) reference number was also provided  the 
number used was actually Wellington Courts Irish company registration number. The 
form was dated on 5 June 2015.
III. The Orbis SIPP application form, signed by Mr S on 28 May 2015.
IV. The Orbis SIPP Important Risk Notices document. This was a nine-page document 
that outlined the various risks of the SIPP. It was signed by Mr S on 28 May 2015.
V. An Adviser Remuneration Form. This set out the advice fee that Mr S had agreed to 
pay Wellington Court. It said,
I have appointed [Mr P] of Wellington Court Financial Services Ltd ("the Company") 
to provide me with advice in relation to The Orbis SIPP (the SIPP') and any related 
investment advice in respect of assets held within the SIPP.  I confirm my 
agreement to these charges and authorise Guinness Mahon Trust Corporation to 
debit the fees from the SIPP Bank Account and pay them on my behalf, this 
agreement replaces any existing agreement. It had a table setting fees which listed a 
fee of 1% of transfer value into the scheme, to a maximum of £800 plus VAT.
VI. The Orbis SIPP Transfer Details Information Form. This sets out the details of 
Mr Ss transfer, including the policy number of the pension he was transferring from 
and the transfer value. This was signed by Ms S on 28 May 2015. 
VII. A transfer discharge form from Mr Ss transferring scheme.
VIII. A statement of Mr Ss Orbis SIPP showing no contributions, withdrawals, or 
investments up until the point that his fund was transferred away.
2.  Mr Ss recollections
Mr S explained that he was initially contacted by phone and then visited at home by a 
named individual. He says that this introducer referred him to Wellington Court. He says 
that he was advised to transfer his personal pension to a SIPP.
He tells us that he was 43 years of age at the time, earning around £16,000 a year with 
savings around £2,000, and the personal pension in question was his only pension.
3.  Documents from Wellington Court
Wellington Court has said that it didnt provide Mr S with advice and he hasnt been a 
client of Wellington Court. So theyve provided no documents specifically in relation to this 
case. In relation to another case though, Wellington Court have provided a copy of a statement 
from its bank account that covered the period in question for this transfer. It showed that 
Wellington Court received a credit to its account on 5 August 2015 of £3,091.06.
4.  Payment to Wellington Court in relation to Mr S
On 4 August 2015 GMTC deducted £336.84 of the £33,684.40 that had been transferred 
to Mr Ss SIPP. The SIPP statement describes it as Wellington IFA Fee. It amounted to 
1% (plus VAT) of the transfer value which was in line with the adviser remuneration form. 
It was paid from the Orbis SIPP deposit account to the GMTC client account. The 
£336.84 was included with seven other fees for other customers, totalling £3,091.06. On 
5 August 2015 GMTC sent a payment of £3,091.06 from the GMTC client account to 
Wellington Courts bank account. The payment had the beneficiary reference as GM IFA 
FEES.
5.  Evidence from similar cases
I am aware of a significant number of other complaints about Wellington Court which 
have very similar features to Mr Ss case. Whilst Im deciding here on whats fair and 
reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, for context I think its 
reasonable to consider the evidence from these other cases alongside the evidence that 
has been collected in relation to Mr Ss case. Specifically:
I. GMTC has provided screen-shots showing the entries made into an advisers portal 
for some transfers. The portal records the details of the individual transferring (name, 
address, details of transferring scheme and so on) as well as the advisers name  
Mr P  and the name of an introducer.
II. Paperwork from other cases show a number of introducer firms were involved in 
these cases.
III. The recollections of the complainants in other cases havent been particularly 
detailed. But its apparent that for many other individuals, they invested in Dolphin 
Trust (a German property investment that has since failed) and that they signed a 
one-page investment instruction in order to make that investment. There is no such 
instruction in Mr Ss case, which accounts for why Mr Ss SIPP remained invested in 
cash (although why Mr S didnt complete an investment instruction isnt clear).
IV. Other payments to Wellington Court 
Information provided by GMTC in relation to other complaints shows that 1% 
payments along the same lines as Mr Ss were made to the same Wellington Court 
bank account in relation to many other individuals, including (but not necessarily 
limited to) the following:
£9,239.74 on 30 March 2015 in relation to thirty-two transferred policies (for 22 
individuals  some individuals transferred more than one policy). The payment 
reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was GM ADVISER 
FEES.
£8,588.76 on 24 April 2015 (the number of policies and individuals this payment 
relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington 
Courts statement was OR ADVISER FEES. £9,503.33 on 20 May 2015 in relation to 31 transferred policies (for 19 individuals). 
The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
ORBIS SIPP FEES.
£8,881.16 on 16 June 2015 in relation to 24 transferred policies (for 21 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
£11,423.77 on 26 June 2015 in relation to 25 transferred policies (for 17 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM ADVISER FEES.
£7,731.07 on 15 July 2015 in relation to 23 transferred policies (for 18 individuals). 
The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
ORBIS CLIENT FEES
£4,762.19 on 27 July 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (for 12 individuals). 
The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts statement was 
GM IFA FEE.
£3,091.06 on 5 August 2015 in relation to 8 transferred policies (for eight 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES. This payment included Mr Ss £336.84 payment.
£4,624.87 on 18 August in relation to 12 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES. 
6,573.32 on 25 August 2015 in relation to 14 transferred policies (the number of 
individuals this relates to isnt clear). The payment reference that was to appear 
(and did appear) on Wellington Courts statement was GM IFA FEES.
£12,672.03 on 7 October 2015 in relation to 46 transferred policies (for 31 
individuals). The payment reference that was to appear on Wellington Courts 
statement was GM IFA FEES.
The above is based on information provided in Mr Ss case and other similar cases. 
Its not necessarily comprehensive. A quick review shows that there are no entries for 
September 2015 for instance. So I think its fair to say the above shows that at least 
£87,000 was paid from GMTC to the one Wellington Court bank account in relation to 
over 200 transferred policies in a six month period. Its entirely possible that 
payments were happening before and after this six month period too.
For completeness, it should be noted that we have the records for the payments 
being made from GMTC but we dont have the records for all those payments being 
received by Wellington Court other than for the £6,573.32 payment on 25 August and 
the £4,624.87 payment on 18 August. This is because Wellington Court has only 
provided us with heavily redacted bank statements. I see no plausible reason why 
GMTCs payments wouldnt have all reached Wellington Court and Ill proceed on 
that basis. However, in my provisional decision, I said Wellington Court were 
welcome to provide us with its unredacted bank statements to show that it didnt 
receive the payment including Mr Ss fee on 5 August 2015.
In my provisional decision I said the following regarding jurisdiction:The rules that govern our service are the DISP rules, that are set out in the FCA Handbook. 
DISP2 sets out the rules that give us compulsory jurisdiction to be able to investigate 
complaints against regulated firms. I have to be satisfied that Mr Ss complaint is one we can 
help with before we consider the merits of it.
To be able to consider a complaint, I need to be satisfied that the issue complained of 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying out one or more listed activities, including 
regulated activities (DISP2.3.1R).
Advising someone to set up a SIPP and to transfer rights in existing personal pensions to 
that SIPP is a regulated activity. For the reasons given above, Im satisfied there was an 
advisory relationship between Wellington Court and Mr S. There is a lack of documentation 
to show what, if anything, Wellington Court did in relation to giving advice to Mr S. Potentially 
it didnt do anything (whether that was deliberate, or an oversight isnt for me to speculate 
on). It doesnt make a difference to my jurisdiction over this complaint because if there were 
omissions in the provision of its advice, that doesnt mean the activity becomes any less 
regulated as a result.
In addition, under Article 25(1) of The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated 
Activities) Order 2001 (the RAO), making arrangements for another person to buy and sell a 
specified investment is a regulated activity. The FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) 
says the following about Article 25(1):
The activity of arranging (bringing about) deals in investments is aimed at arrangements 
that would have the direct effect that a particular transaction is concluded (that is, 
arrangements that bring it about).
I consider it unlikely that Mr S would have transferred if it hadnt been for Wellington Courts 
involvement. GMTC required the involvement of an advisory firm before it would accept a 
transfer. And Mr S signed up for advice and paid for that advice too. So I consider it unlikely 
that he would have wanted to transfer if Wellington Court had indicated he shouldnt do so.
Im satisfied, therefore, that Wellington Courts actions had the direct effect of bringing about 
Mr Ss transfer. In short, what Wellington Court did here constitutes making arrangements 
under Article 25(1) of the RAO.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about fall within our 
jurisdiction. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying on the regulated activities of advising 
on and arranging pensions and investments.
Ive also considered whether Mr S is an eligible complainant under DISP2.7. Im satisfied 
that Mr S meets the definition of a consumer, which merely requires that Mr S is a natural 
person acting for purposes outside his trade, business or profession. But to be an eligible 
complainant Mr S must also have a complaint which arises from matters relevant to a specific list 
of relationship types with Wellington Court (DISP2.7.6). Ill explain why I think Mr S was a 
customer of Wellington Court.
It looks like GMTC wanted the involvement of a regulated independent financial adviser 
(IFA) before accepting a transfer. Its Important Risk Notices explained that the SIPP was 
ordinarily offered through an IFA. And Mr Ss SIPP application was accompanied by a 
covering letter, on Wellington Court headed paper, purporting that Wellington Court were 
acting for Mr S. The application was marked up as being an adviser led application and the 
Adviser Remuneration Form indicated that Wellington Court were to receive an adviser fee.From this, I can only conclude that Mr S believed himself to be a customer of Wellington 
Court. Its unreasonable to suggest that Mr S would sign an authority to pay 1% of his 
pension fund to Wellington Court if he didnt think hed received a service from them.
Wellington Court says it has never had any direct, or indirect, dealings with Mr S and the 
evidence linking Wellington Court to Mr S is fraudulent. It says the covering letter from 
Wellington Court to GMTC to open the SIPP was cloned and didnt come from Wellington 
Court.
The covering letter on Mr Ss case bears many identical characteristics as on other cases 
referred to above. In those instances Wellington has pointed to the unprofessional look of 
the letter, as well as the fact that the letter was signed on behalf of the adviser in question  
Mr P  rather than by Mr P himself and the person who signed that letter is untraceable 
because their signature is indecipherable. With regards to the adviser remuneration form, it 
points to an incorrect FCA reference number being written on the form and the adviser, 
Mr P, misspelling (and then correcting) his name. It also says Mr P worked in a marketing, 
rather than advisory, capacity. More broadly, there isnt any evidence to show any 
documents were sent to Wellington Court, which it says supports its view that this 
transaction was done without its knowledge.
Ive considered the possibility that an unregulated third party could have fraudulently claimed 
that they were acting on behalf of Wellington Court when they werent. Were this the case, 
Id expect to see that some third party, responsible for this, would stand to benefit. But as I 
explained above, Im satisfied that Mr Ss 1% advisor fee was paid to Wellington Court on 
5 August 2015. And was part of a payment including other customer fees, that would have 
shown on Wellington Courts bank statement as GM IFA FEES.
Had Mr Ss IFA fee been paid to Wellington Court in error I would expect them to have 
queried this payment. But its provided no evidence that it did. Ive considered whether the 
payment could have been overlooked by Wellington Court. But, as Ive explained above, 
Mr Ss payment wasnt an isolated credit to Wellington Courts bank account. It was one of a 
number of entries being received that were marked on the bank statement as GM IFA 
FEES (or something similar). All were made to the same account and collectively amounted 
to at least £87,000 over six months. I dont think that a fraud of this magnitude could have 
gone unnoticed by Wellington Court. And Wellington Court provide no evidence that it 
investigated or queried any of these payments. I think that the only reasonable explanation is 
that the payments were expected.
Ive considered that GMTC also stood to benefit from SIPP platform fees. But for GMTC to 
have fraudulently purported that Wellington Court was the adviser in Mr Ss case (and 
others) I wouldnt expect it to have paid Wellington Court the adviser fees. It surely would 
have expected Wellington Court to have noticed and queried unexpected adviser fees 
totalling over £87,000. So, even though GMTC benefitted, I think its unlikely that it could 
have committed fraud on this scale without Wellington Courts knowledge.
I accept that we havent got evidence of a client agreement or invoice. But we have 
documents indicating that Mr S considered that hed received a service, and evidence that a 
payment was made and accepted for that service. Which is enough to satisfy me that Mr S 
was a customer of Wellington Court, so is an eligible complainant. 
There are a number of other jurisdiction tests that must also be met before I can consider the 
merits of a complaint. Broadly speaking, these are that the complaint must be made against 
a regulated business, about an activity carried on from an establishment in the UK, and be 
brought within the time limits set out in the rules. The activities in question were carried on from an establishment in the UK. Wellington Court is a regulated business. And Mr S 
brought his complaint to us within the relevant time limits.
With all the above in mind, Im satisfied that this is a case that our service can consider.
In my provisional decision I said the following regarding the complaints merits
Mr S was 44 years old at the time of the pension switch. And the SIPP application indicated 
a proposed retirement age of 65. So Mr S still had 21 years until the indicated retirement. 
And was 11 years from being able to access any of his benefits in any form. This means that 
switching his pension afforded him no benefit in the way that he used his pension benefits. 
He was simply too far from that event for that to warrant moving his pension.
His pension fund size was modest. So unlikely to benefit from being invested in a SIPP. By 
definition, its a self-invested fund. But Mr S appears to have had little-to-no investment 
experience. So I dont think it was suitable on the grounds that he wanted to control his 
investments. In fact, his fund remained invested in the deposit account until it was 
transferred in 2016. Its likely Mr S would have needed some form of ongoing advice 
regarding investments in the SIPP, at additional cost. On top of the SIPP platform fee he 
was paying. So I think that its unlikely that this was a cost effective option for a fund of this 
size.
Following the pension transfer, Mr Ss fund remained uninvested. I dont know whether 
Wellington Court considered Mr Ss attitude to risk or not. He tells us that he agreed to the 
pension switch after being told he could get better returns. So was most likely prepared to 
take some investment risk. Even if that wasnt the case, the option to put his pension fund 
into a deposit account most likely was already available without switching. It follows that, on 
balance, I dont think the pension switch was in Mr Ss best interest. And the subsequent 
lack of any investment instruction compounded the mistake. Based on the information I 
have, I would have expected Wellington Court to have advised Mr S to leave his personal 
pension where it was. Had it done so I dont think that Mr S would have moved his personal 
pension to the Orbis SIPP. So Wellington Court are responsible for any losses that he 
suffered from the time of the pension switch until the funds were transferred again under the 
advice of another party.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr Ss representative responded to my provisional decision and had no further comment or 
evidence for me to consider.
My provisional decision was sent to Wellington Court by letter on 19 January 2022, and also 
by email to the respondent email that we have for them. We sent a further email to 
Wellington Court on 3 February 2020 after the deadline passed. That email was sent to the 
business respondent email address and to the named director who had previously 
responded on this case. I have received no response from Wellington Court. 
But, as I noted in my provisional decision, this case is one of a number of very similar 
complaints that our service is considering against Wellington Court. Ive considered evidence 
from other cases where Ive decided its relevant. And Im aware that Wellington Court have 
responded on similar complaints contesting the findings. Id summarise Wellington Courts 
arguments on similar decisions as follows:
That our service hasnt undertaken a thorough investigation, that we have been 
biased and have tried to frame Wellington Court.That the complaints are baseless because the consumers were never Wellingtons 
customers. Paperwork referring to Wellington Court is fraudulent, and no evidence 
has been found of any direct contact between Wellington Court and the 
complainants.
GMTC were running a scam, were accepting business directly from individuals or 
unauthorised advisers. 
Wellington Courts advisory involvement with GMTC was limited to three clients and it 
has given those files to the FCA.
Claims management companies, representing many of the complainants are bringing 
unwarranted complaints for commercial gain. And have been encouraged by our 
service to do so. 
The above is a very condensed summary and only picks out the arguments that Wellington 
Court have raised elsewhere that may also be considered to be relevant to this case. Which 
I think is fair given that Wellington Court have failed to respond and provide me with its 
specific views on this case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision relates to the specific circumstances of Mr Ss complaint. But it has been 
necessary to consider the broader picture to understand more clearly what happened in this 
case. Having received no other evidence, that might call the conclusion I reached in my 
provisional decision into question, my final decision remains the same. 
Ive explained that the evidence appears to clearly show a 1% adviser charge being paid to 
Wellington Court from Mr Ss SIPP. As well as fees from a large number of other customers. 
Wellington Court explained that it provided no advice to Mr S. But has failed to provide a 
plausible explanation for having received an advisory fee from him. Nor has it shown any 
evidence to suggest that it didnt receive this payment.
The individual fee paid from Mr Ss SIPP was only £336.84. But a bank transfer of over 
£3,000 was made for a group of fees. And the evidence we have shows that Wellington 
Court received over £87,000 in advisory fee payments from GMTC. Which I dont think could 
have reasonably gone unnoticed during its accounting processes. I would expect a 
responsible business to query these transfers from GMTC if they werent expected or 
legitimate. And Wellington Court have shown no evidence that it did. Which leads me to 
conclude the advice fees were expected. 
Im aware that Wellington Court dont admit to having more than three customers that it 
would have received fees from GMTC for. But havent provided specific evidence to show 
what fees it would have received from those clients. Or when they were received. So I dont 
have the evidence to believe it was likely that Wellington Court could have thought the 
£87,000 worth of fees related to those three clients. Its likely that these total payments were 
too high. And, as the evidence shows, these payments were received over more than three 
individual bank transfers. The audit trail shows the source of the fees was the clients that 
Wellington Court dont recognise. And Wellington Court have failed to provide a satisfactory 
explanation for this.Wellington Court has strongly argued elsewhere that it is a victim of a scam. And that GMTC 
and others should be investigated. But in considering this complaint, my role is to determine 
whether Mr Ss specific complaint against Wellington Court has merit. Not to comment on 
any liability of third parties to this complaint. If Wellington Court considered that it was the 
victim of some form of fraud, I would have expected it to have done something to address it 
at the time. Like challenging unusual transfers from GMTC, reporting the matter to the FCA, 
or perhaps the police. Ive not seen evidence of that being the case. I recognised in my 
provisional decision that GMTC stood to benefit from the transfers in terms of SIPP fees. But 
the allegation of a scam on GMTCs part doesnt really account, to my mind, for the transfer 
of such large sums to Wellington Court. Were it GMTCs intention to set up SIPPs, 
fraudulently purporting to have been advised by Wellington Court, I wouldnt expect them to 
risk highlighting the issue with Wellington Court by making regular payments of advisor fees.
It seems from the arguments raised, that Wellington Court may feel victimised by CMCs 
bringing multiple similar complaints to our service. The DISP rules require that Wellington 
Court have eight weeks to investigate and respond to every case before our service will look 
at it. Our service has acted under the DISP rules. I explained in my provisional decision why 
I thought this case was in our compulsory jurisdiction. Which means that the consumer, 
whether represented by a CMC or not, is entitled to have our service look into the complaint 
where Wellington Court has been unable to resolve it. Having considered everything in this 
case again, Im still satisfied that this case is in our jurisdiction for the reasons I explained 
above.
The crux of Wellington Courts argument in this case related to its assertion that it had never 
advised Mr S. Which I have addressed when explaining what the evidence meant regarding 
our jurisdiction. Wellington Court hasnt offered any opinion on whether or not Mr Ss transfer 
was suitable for him or not. Which I understand given the line it has taken.
Ive considered, based on the information that we have available, whether the transfer Mr S 
made was likely to have been in his best interest. And for the same reasons that I gave in 
my provisional decision (outlined above) I dont think it was.
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mr S, as closely as possible, into the position hed most likely be now but for 
Wellington Courts actions. And as I explained above, I think hed most likely have remained 
invested in his personal pension plan.
To compensate Mr S fairly, Wellington Court must:
Compare the performance of Mr S's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. Wellington Court should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Wellington Court should pay into Mr S's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Wellington Court is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Unless either party provides 
evidence to the contrary, compensation should be based on Mr S being a basic rate 
taxpayer.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Wellington Court deducts income 
tax from the interest, it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. Wellington 
Court should give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmark  from (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
The Orbis 
SIPPtransferred the fund(s) Mr 
Ss personal 
pension was 
previously 
invested indate of 
transfer to 
Orbis SIPPdate 
transferred 
from Orbis 
SIPP8%simple per 
year on the loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 
28 days of 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance of 
final decision)
 - If Wellington Court is unable to obtain fund values from Mr Ss ceding scheme, 
then it should instead use the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index. 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index). It is 
made up of a range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some 
risk to get a higher return. 
Actual value
This means the actual amount transferred from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. This means Wellington Court will need to contact Mr Ss original 
pension provider to obtain this value.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
If the SIPP transfer hadnt gone ahead Mr S would most likely have remained 
invested in his existing plan and the same funds.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.My final decision
For the above reasons, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Wellington Court Financial Services Limited must compensate Mr S in the manner Ive set 
out under putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman