DRN-2733811
The complaint
Miss M complains that Simplyhealth Access mis-sold her cash plan policy in 2011.
What happened
Simplyhealth has explained that Miss M held a previous cash plan policy at least since 1999, 
but Miss M set up a new policy over the phone on 1 September 2011. This is also the date 
Miss M has told us shes complaining about.
Simplyhealth doesnt hold a recording of the call on 1 September 2011 due to how long ago 
it was. But it says its policies are sold on non-advised basis. That means it wouldnt have 
been Simplyhealths responsibility to make sure the policy was suitable for Miss M.
Simplyhealth has explained that the policy originally ran on a monthly rolling contract basis. 
But in 2017, the contract was changed to annually renewable. This meant the previous 
contract was cancelled, and a new one was set up.
Miss M says that Simplyhealth mis-sold the policy as it wasnt suited to healthy individuals, 
and totally unsuitable for her requirements. Miss M is unhappy that shes paid significantly 
more in premiums over the years than shes claimed on the policy. Miss M says 
Simplyhealth shouldve prompted a review to highlight this. Miss M cancelled her policy in 
August 2019.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think it was for Simplyhealth to make 
a recommendation to Miss M about the suitability of the policy  rather, it needed to give her 
enough information so she could decide if the policy was right for her. He referred to the 
documents sent to Miss M after the sale in 2011, as well as the annual renewal notices. 
Overall, he didnt think Simplyhealth had done anything wrong.
Miss M didnt agree with our investigator. As no agreement was reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Simplyhealth says it sells its policies on non-advised basis. I havent been able to listen to 
the sales call on 1 September 2011, but I havent seen anything that would suggest 
Simplyhealth gave Miss M advice or made a recommendation  for example in anything 
Miss M has said, or any of the paperwork Simplyhealth sent her after the sale. So, Im 
satisfied the policy was likely sold on non-advised basis. 
That means it wasnt for Simplyhealth to make sure the policy was suitable for Miss Ms 
needs  rather, it needed to give her enough information so that she could make an informed 
decision if the policy was right for her. Neither party has given me detailed information about 
what was discussed during the sales call. So, in the absence of that, Ive looked at the 
information included in the paperwork Simplyhealth sent Miss M following the sale.
Ive seen a copy of the welcome letter Simplyhealth sent Miss M which referred to the 
enclosed Summary of Cover as well as the policys terms and conditions. The letter also 
reminded Miss M that she had 14 days to cancel the policy if she wasnt satisfied with the 
cover. Simplyhealth has also sent us a copy of a benefit table relevant at the time of joining, 
as well as the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Simplyhealth gave Miss M sufficient 
information about the policy for her to decide whether it was right for her. Based on 
everything Ive seen, I also think Simplyhealth communicated with Miss M in a way that was 
clear, fair and not misleading.
Simplyhealth has shown that while the policy ran on a monthly rolling contract basis, it sent 
Miss M letters in 2012, 2013 and 2015 notifying her of an increase in the premium. I think if 
Miss M wasnt happy with the increases, she couldve got in touch with Simplyhealth 
following these letters. I dont think there was anything else Simplyhealth needed to do.
Simplyhealth hasnt been able to provide the new policy documents from 2017 when the 
policy changed to annually renewable. But its given us copies of the renewal letters in 2018 
and 2019. Both letters summarise the cover Miss M had, the previous years premium, the 
new premium, and it reminded Miss M to check that the level of cover still met her needs. 
The letter also said Miss M may want to use the information in the letter to compare cover 
and prices with other companies.
I think what Simplyhealth has done here is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I dont think theres anything else it needed to do, as it was for Miss M to make 
sure the policy remained suitable for her needs.
Simplyhealth has also shown that Miss M made ten claims on the policy between 2011 and 
2019 (inclusive). I appreciate she doesnt think the policy was of any value for her when the 
premiums shes paid over the years were significantly more than what she claimed for under 
the policy. But by taking out an insurance policy and paying premiums for the cover, that is 
the risk that Miss M took. 
Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Simplyhealth mis-sold the policy to Miss M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman