DRN-3107314
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. refused to refund her premium in relation to her travel insurance policy. Reference to 
Mapfre includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mrs T has an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre. The 
policy in force at the time of the events complained of started on 1 August 2019 and 
ended on 31 July 2020. 
In March 2020, Mrs T made a claim against the policy for travel costs following the 
cancellation of a trip. Mapfre settled that claim. 
On 25 August 2020, Mrs T asked Mapfre about a refund of part of the premium as the 
covid-19 pandemic had prevented her from travelling for part of the August 2019 to     
July 2020 policy year. Mrs T indicated to this service that she thinks its fair for Mapfre to 
refund one third of the premium, less the amount Mapfre paid in settlement of her claim. 
Mapfre refused to refund part of the premium, so Mrs T pursued her complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mapfre was 
at fault in declining Mrs Ts request for a refund of premium. The investigator said that he  
could only reasonably ask Mapfre to refund any part of the premium if there had been a 
cancellation request part-way through the 2019 to 2020 policy year and no claim had 
been made on the policy.  
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigator. She said that shed try to contact Mapfre by 
phone in March 2020 in order to cancel the policy but couldnt reach it. Mrs T said that if 
shed been able to speak to Mapfre in March 2020, she would have cancelled the policy 
instead of making a claim. 
The investigator considered what Mrs T said but didnt change his view. Mrs T asked 
that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant part of which says as 
follows:
Cancellations & 'cooling-off' period
If this cover is not suitable for you and you want to cancel your policy, you must write (either 
by e-mail or letter, which you can post or fax to the number below) to InsureandGo within 14 
days of buying your policy or the date you receive your policy documentation whichever is 
the latter.
If you have not travelled or made a claim and you wish to cancel the policy within 14 days of 
receiving your policy documentation a full refund will be given. If you cancel after 14 days of 
receipt of your policy documents no premium refund will be made.
If you are an annual multi-trip policyholder and you have travelled or made a claim before 
you asked to cancel the policy, InsureandGo may only refund part of the premium.
In line with the conditions above, they will refund all the premiums you have paid within 30 
days of the date you write to them to ask to cancel the policy.
To request cancellation of your policy, please contact InsureandGo by writing to: [] 
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mrs Ts complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated her unfairly. I 
say that because:
Mapfre isnt obliged to offer Mrs T a refund of the premium in the circumstances that 
arose here. It refused Mrs Ts request because she had made a claim against the 
policy and the policy had expired. I dont think that Mapfre treated Mrs T unfairly or 
unreasonably in declining her request for a refund and Ill explain why.
When Mrs T first asked Mapfre for a refund, it was after the policy had expired. So, 
Mapfre had been on risk for the whole of the policys term. I appreciate that Mrs T 
says that the covid-19 pandemic restricted her travel for part of the policy year, but I 
dont think that alters the outcome here. 
Covid-19 was an unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties to the 
insurance contract. However, covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mrs Ts contract 
with Mapfre to be performed  cover under the policy started on 1 August 2019.      
Mrs T was  insured from that date for travelling on any number of trips of up to 31 
days duration when travel was permitted. Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way 
of knowing how many such trips Mrs T took. It would only know about a trip if a claim 
was made. So, there may have been many trips or there may have been just one, but 
Mapfre was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force. 
The price set by Mapfre covered Mrs T for cancellation of any holidays which she 
had booked, and which were due to take place from 1 August 2019 to 31 July 2020. 
So, Mrs T would have been covered if  she had to cancel any number of holidays 
because of any listed events insured under the policy, including, for example, Mrs T 
becoming seriously ill or getting injured.  
So, Mapfre covered the risk of Mrs T making a successful cancellation claim for any 
number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of holidays, 
from 1 August 2019 to 31 July 2020. Its a fundamental principle of insurance law 
that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. I dont think its unfair for Mapfre to decline 
Mrs Ts request for a refund of premium in this case both because it was on risk and 
because Mrs T made a successful claim against the policy. 
I note that Mrs T says that she tried to contact Mapfre in March 2020 in order to 
cancel the policy. I dont doubt that it was difficult to get through to Mapfre on the 
phone in the unprecedented circumstances that were unfolding at that time. But, as 
the investigator said, it was open to Mrs T to communicate with Mapfre in writing. 
And the policy terms and conditions require requests for cancellation in writing by 
post, fax or e-mail. I dont think that the difficulty in contacting Mapfre by phone alters 
the outcome here.  
For these reasons, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 January 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman