DRN-3211787
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim
(FTR) asked them to pay their success fees for payment protection insurance (PPI) claims
they said theyd made themselves.  
What happened
Mr W and Mrs W said theyd used the claims service of FTR in 2017 and had successful
claims. But in 2019 they were contacted by their lender Ill call B who said they could make
a PPI claim without the need to use a third party. And they said this is what they did. Mr W
and Mrs W said they made their PPI claim with B in July 2019, and their claim was
successful. B upheld their complaint and paid them compensation in September 2019. But
in September 2020, FTR asked them to pay their success fee for the claim. Mr W and Mrs W
complained to FTR.
FTR said a letter of authority (LoA) had been signed in June 2019 and theyd acted in good
faith in submitting this to B on behalf of Mr W and Mrs W to determine whether theyd any
PPI . FTR said theyd updated Mr W and Mrs W when B told them that PPI had been
found, and from then theyd provided Mr W and Mrs W with their claims service. Neither Mr
W or Mrs W had asked to cancel the agreement, and FTR said they sent a letter of
complaint (LoC) to B in August 2019. In August 2020, FTR said B told them Mr W and
Mrs Ws PPI claim had been upheld for three accounts with B, one of which there wasnt
any redress paid. But as the other two claims were successful and compensation paid, FTR
asked Mr W and Mrs W, in September 2020 to pay their success fee.
Mr W and Mrs W wasnt happy with FTRs response and referred their complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr W and Mrs W had instructed FTR to act on their behalf in June
2019. She said she hadnt seen any evidence that Mr W and Mrs W had cancelled the
agreement with FTR. And as this was before Mr W and Mrs W had asked B to investigate
their PPI claim she said FTRs fee was justified.
Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in November 2021 that said: 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im currently minded to partially uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr W and Mrs W said they didnt instruct FTR to pursue their PPI claim in 2019 as theyd
asked their lender direct to look into whether theyd been mis-sold PPI. FTR feel strongly
that theyd been authorised as Mr W and Mrs W had signed a LoA in June 2019. And that it
was the submission of the LoA that meant Mr W and Mrs Ws PPI claim was successful.
Were an informal dispute resolution service, acting as an alternative to the courts. This
means were impartial and look at both sides of the story. We dont place more weight on
one sides story because of who they are. We ask questions and weigh up all the information
were given. In reaching my decision I need to decide whether, on balance, Mr W and Mrs W
had authorised FTR to pursue their claim for PPI or if theyd made their claim directly with
their lender. If I think theyd instructed FTR to pursue their claim, Ill also consider whether
Mr W and Mrs W had asked FTR to stop working for them and if FTR had acted fairly and
reasonably in their actions with Mr W and Mrs W.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for PPI
claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management
companies (CMC) amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high
volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject 
request. Any further information such as that provided in a PPI questionnaire could be used to 
strengthen the claim that the PPI policy was mis-sold. So, for some lenders the submission of a 
LoA was accepted as a claim for mis-sold PPI and no further information was needed for them to
investigate the mis-sold PPI claim. This is generally referred to as the claim being auto
converted. And a claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have been
accepted by any lender unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
FTR has shown an online application was made about mis-sold PPI for Mr W and Mrs W in
June 2019. Ive looked at FTRs web journey process for an online application. A screen
shows a statement that says:
Isnt it time you checked for PPI. * Free PPI check
And below is a box that says How it works. And includes the wording:
*Free PPI check. Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and we will
continue to work on preparing, submitting and negotiating your Claim(s). Our fee of 24%
inclusive of VAT will be payable on all successful claims as per the Terms of Engagement.
The *Free PPI check in this wording was bolded in red and the asterisk linked it to the
headline statement. The screen also had a link to the Terms of Engagement. And I think this
shows that on PPI being found FTR would carry on with their claims service and a fee would
be payable on success of any claim for mis-sold PPI.
The next screens would have asked for information from the applicant(s) about personal
details and lenders. FTR has shown the personal details supplied included, current and
previous addresses, date of birth and contact details that correlate with the personal details
Mr W and Mrs W has given this service. A list of lenders was also supplied.
On completing the application, FTR has said Mr W and Mrs W would have needed to agree
to their terms and conditions. And this would generate a LoA populated with the supplied
information. FTR has told us the LoA could only be submitted when a signature(s) was
added.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
Claims(s) means your claims(s) and/or positive identification of PPI auto converted to a
claim by the company
And go on to say:
Once PPI is identified, the Free PPI Check Period ends and You authorise FTR tocontinue to provide You with the Claims Services.
FTRs records show that they sent in July 2019 several notifications to the email address
supplied in the online application, that gave a FTR customer reference number and said
You Have Paid PPI with a link to a PPI questionnaire. The email also said:
Please note: you may be unable claim a PPI refund unless you have completed the PPI
questionnaire.
The email didnt say that by not completing the PPI questionnaire the agreement with FTR
would end or that Mr W and Mrs W wouldnt be able to claim for mis-sold PPI.
As PPI had been found, from this point FTR would have been providing their claims service.
PPI being found didnt automatically mean Mr W and Mrs Ws claim was successful as it
needed to be considered by B whether the PPI had been mis-sold to them. This is why
emails sent by FTR included a link to the PPI questionnaire to support their mis-sold claim. I
know Mr W and Mrs W didnt return the PPI questionnaire to FTR. But as I outlined about the
information asked for in this questionnaire could be used to strengthen a claim for mis-sold
PPI but this didnt mean a claim couldnt be considered without one.
I will now look to see whether Mr W and Mrs W asked FTR to stop working for him.
FTRs terms and conditions say:
You may cancel Your Claim(s) at any time within 14 days from the date you sign the Letter
of Authority (Cooling -off period) at no cost to You.
The terms and conditions also explain how the agreement can be cancelled after the 14-day
cooling off period. And goes on to give a variety of ways the cancellation can be done,
telephone, email or in writing.
I think until PPI is found Mr W and Mrs Ws agreement would have only been for a free PPI
check. So, I consider the 14-day cooling off period starts form the date Mr W and Mrs W
would have been notified that PPI had been found and when FTRs claims service started.
FTR told Mr W and Mrs W You have paid PPI . In an email dated 3 July 2019, so Mr W
and Mrs W would have had up to 17 July 2019 to cancel the agreement without cost.
B has confirmed that Mr W and Mrs W made a claim with them on 1 July 2019. But I
havent seen any evidence that Mr W and Mrs W told FTR they would be making their claim
direct with B or that they asked FTR to cancel the agreement either within or after the 14-
day cooling off period. If they had the date they asked B to look into their claim was within
the 14 day cooling off period and so they could have cancelled their agreement with FTR
with no cost incurred. I dont think simply disengaging from the process could be considered
as cancelling the agreement. And Im satisfied FTR didnt know Mr W and Mrs W didnt want
them to continue working for them and so they continued to provide their claims service.
I know B has told Mr W and Mrs W they didnt receive the LoA from FTR until October
2019. But I can see from FTRs records that B told them Mr W and Mrs W had PPI on 3
July 2019. And I dont think B would have sent this information unless theyd received the
LoA that FTR said theyd submitted. FTR has also shown they submitted a LoC for both
successful accounts, *1332 and *1336 in August 2019. While Mr W and Mrs W made their
claim 1 July 2019, Im persuaded that as B told FTR 3 July 2019 that PPI had been found it
was the submission of FTRs LoA that prompted this response.
In September 2019 B told Mr W and Mrs W their mis-sold PPI claim was successful. The
notification doesnt show any FTR customer reference. And B didnt send any notification toFTR to let them know the claim was successful. But in August 2020 I can see B sent a copy of
this letter to FTR. In the notification to FTR they included Mr W and Mrs Ws FTR customer
reference number and told them that it had been sent to our mutual client .
So, taking all of the above into account I think Mr W and Mrs W had authorised FTR, in June
2019, to act on their behalf in making their PPI claim. And I dont think they cancelled the
agreement they had with FTR.
Ill now considered whether I think FTR has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with
Mr W and Mrs W. From FTRs records the last contact they made with Mr W and Mrs W was
in July 2019. CMCOB requirements about keeping consumers informed says:
CMCOB 6.1.9
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least
every six months, in a durable medium.
As I outlined above with the August deadline there were high volumes of complaints
received by lenders, and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) gave guidance about
allowing time for the lenders to investigate cases. So, in many cases there wasnt any further
updates to give. But I cant see that FTR made any contact with Mr W and Mrs W between
July 2019 and September 2020 when they issued their invoice. And I dont think this was fair
or reasonable.
And given I think Mr W and Mrs W made a claim with their lender albeit after FTRs
submission, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to think the entirety of the redress was
theirs. So, I can understand the upset caused when they were asked to pay FTRs fee some
12 months later.
The agreement Mr W and Mrs W would have had with FTR was on a No win No fee basis.
This means FTR charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of
work they did. This meant any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for
free. Where a claim was successful, FTRS fee maybe more or less than the value of the
work they actually did. This is the risk taken by all parties in this type of agreement. As I think
Mr W and Mrs W claim was submitted by FTR and the claim was successful. I think FTR is
justified in charging their fee.
But for the trouble and upset caused by the void of communication Im intending to ask
Quickly Finance trading as Fast Track reclaim to pay Mr W and Mrs W £150 in
compensation. 
Responses to my provisional decision
 FTR accepted the provisional decision. And Mr and Mrs W havent provided any further 
comments or evidence for me to consider.My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track 
Reclaim to pay Mr W and Mrs W £150 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman