DRN-3229442
The complaint
Mr T makes a number of complaints about Atom Bank PLC.
What happened
Mr T says he was given insufficient notice before his investment reached maturity and 
complains that there were problems with Atoms banking application (app). He says he was 
given incorrect information about the information he ought to have received before maturity 
and says he is unhappy with the customer service he received. Mr T says he was offered 
£50 compensation but that isnt enough. And says he was unable to re-invest his money.
Atom accepts that its app was not available for a short period of time and accepts it gave Mr 
T incorrect information about the notification information. It says it has offered Mr T £50 as a 
goodwill gesture. Atom says Mr T has opened a new five-year account and says its app was 
unavailable for about 45 minutes.
Mr T brought his complaint to us and our investigator thought overall the £50 goodwill 
gesture was appropriate. The investigator thought part of the issue was caused by Mr T 
deleting his app and that the account terms and conditions made clear that on occasions the 
app may be unavailable. The investigator accepted that incorrect information was given but 
that didnt justify further compensation.
Mr T doesnt accept that view and says he should receive about £200 compensation. In 
summary he maintains he received poor service, was unable to transfer money over the 
weekend and that the investigator has ignored the severity of what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. 
There is no question here that Atom accepts that it didnt deal appropriately with parts of this 
complaint. The background to the complaint and the complaint points are well known to the 
parties and there is no need for me to repeat them or to go into greater detail regarding each 
of them. The key issue here is the level of compensation.
I accept Mr T was given incorrect information about the timings of the notifications he would 
receive before account maturity. I also accept that Mr T spent some time speaking to Atom 
about his complaint and that he would have been caused inconvenience. But Im satisfied 
that Atom has accepted it made a mistake, apologised and paid what I think is a fair and 
reasonable compensation award in the form of a goodwill gesture of £50. I dont think the 
mistake or impact on Mr T was particularly significant and I have not seen any evidence of 
financial loss. I can also see that Mr T was able to reinvest his money in a new Atom 
account.
Im satisfied that some of the problems here were caused by Mr T deleting his Atom banking 
app. I can also see that there were problems caused by the unavailability of the app for a 
relatively short period. I cant fairly hold Atom responsible for problems caused by Mr T 
deleting the app and am satisfied Atom makes clear in the account terms and conditions that 
there may be occasions when its app is unavailable.
Overall, Im satisfied that Atom has paid a fair and reasonable compensation amount of £50. 
I dont think this complaint justifies further compensation in circumstances where I have not 
seen any evidence of significant impact or financial loss. I can see that the investigator has 
explained that we cant investigate complaint handling which I think accounts for part of Mr 
Ts complaint. Im also satisfied that this now brings an end to what we in trying to resolve 
this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman