DRN-2083318
The complaint
This is a complaint that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold Mr O payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly-premium PPI policy, which covered a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1984, and the PPI started in 1993. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr O disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
In reviewing this complaint, Ive checked the possible ways in which the PPI might have 
been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The start of the PPI was about 28 years ago, and the mortgage ended about 22 years ago. 
Not surprisingly, none of the original documents from the time are now available. In most 
situations, a bank would be expected not to keep records for more than six years; so it 
wouldnt be fair for me to hold this lack of documentation against it. Also, I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago  this means it can be 
difficult to know whether its fair to rely fully on everything they remember.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most likely to have happened, based on what evidence 
there is. 
Mr O says the PPI was added to his account without his knowing. He says he wouldnt have 
needed PPI because he had a long-term job, would have received good sick pay, and had 
savings. 
I do believe Mr O is genuine in his firm belief that he wouldnt have agreed to PPI, if hed 
been given a choice. But I must look at what evidence there is, and balance this in a way 
that is fair. As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence that this 
probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone (in this case Bank of Scotland) 
prove they didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. 
I cant fairly treat Mr Os strong belief now, as strong evidence. Even though Mr O knows in 
himself that he would never have taken PPI, it wouldnt be fair for me to rely on that. I do 
know that people can be mistaken. I have seen cases where someone is absolutely 
convinced they never agreed to PPI, and yet the documents then show good evidence of a 
discussion and a written request by them for PPI. 
So I dont have good evidence that the PPI was mis-sold in the way Mr O believes.
Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont think they apply. I will explain why. 
If Bank of Scotland specifically recommended the PPI to Mr O, I would judge its sales 
process by a higher standard  it would have had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr Os particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr Os situation at the time: 
Its likely Mr O was eligible for the policy, so he would have been able to make a 
claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr O received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when Mr O would 
need to fall back on any savings, or other means he may have had, for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr O in a more secure 
position, if hed eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest he couldnt afford the PPI when he took it out. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr O would 
have been affected by any of these
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation would have 
been suitable. It would then have been up to Mr O to decide whether he wanted to accept 
the recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming the proper process was followed 
and that he was given a choice about the PPI, which I accept he is saying didnt happen). 
Its hard to know how well Bank of Scotland explained the costs and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether Mr O took the PPI. I say this because, in his circumstances, its unlikely 
even full information would have made the PPI seem less useful.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr O would have been affected by any of these. 
Overall, having looked at the different ways there may have been a fault in the way the PPI 
was sold, I havent found good evidence to say the PPI was mis-sold.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman