DRN-3355986
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was mis-sold a finance agreement with Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc when acquiring a new car. He says that his signature was forged in respect of 
the mileage allowance, which was much lower than hed required.
Mr C also says that Santander mishandled the final lump sum payment when the 
agreement reached its full term.
Mr C has been assisted in bringing his complaint by a relative but, for ease of 
reference, I am only going to refer to Mr C as the credit agreement is in his name.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr C attended a car dealership to discuss acquiring a new car. He says 
that he had a discussion with the salesperson about taking a personal contract purchase 
(PCP) for a new car. He also says that he had a discussion about the required mileage 
with the salesperson.
Mr C entered into a four-year fixed sum loan PCP with Santander to finance the car. 
Under the agreement Mr C was to make 48 monthly payments of £219.45 and, in the 49th 
month, a payment of £9,125 if he wished to keep the car.
Mr C says that, around May 2019, when taking the car to be serviced, he learnt that 
the agreement had an annual mileage limit of 6,000. He says he thought the annual 
mileage limit had been set at 15,000. He contacted Santander and asked for copies of 
the signed agreement.
Mr C says that after receiving the paperwork he found there was a document headed 
Sales Agency Agreement, which set out that the basic annual mileage for the 
agreement was 6,000. Although this document appeared to have been hand signed by Mr 
C, he says this signature was a forgery. He also said that he hadnt been aware that the 
credit agreement entered into was a fixed sum loan. Mr C complained to Santander that 
the agreement had been mis-sold to him.
Santander investigated Mr Cs complaint and contacted the supplying dealership, who 
said the salesperson no longer worked there. It said Mr C wouldve had an opportunity of 
viewing all the paperwork before signing to say he agreed. The dealership denied the 
signature had been forged.
Santander didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said Mr C had had an opportunity to read 
through the agreement which clearly stated it was a fixed sum loan. And so, Mr C would 
have been aware of the type of agreement he was entering in to. Santander also said the 
difference with this type of agreement and a conditional sale PCP was that there was no 
right to voluntary terminate the agreement. It said it didnt accept Mr Cs signature on the 
sales agency agreement had been forged.
Santander said that Mr C would have been provided with copies of the documentation as 
part of his welcome letter sent shortly after taking the agreement out. It said if Mr C had 
been unhappy about the mileage or any of the other terms and conditions, he could have 
raised it then but hadnt.
Mr C disagreed with the view taken by Santander and complained to this service. During 
our investigation Mr Cs agreement was coming to an end. Santander says it sent Mr C 
three letters informing him that he had three options as to what he could do with the car 
once the agreement had reached its end date. These were, keep it and pay the final lump 
sum payment, hand the car back or use it as part-exchange for another. A few days after 
each of these letters, Santander says it also sent Mr C a SMS message asking which of 
the options he would be taking.
One week before the lump sum was due in April 2020, Santander spoke to Mr C on the 
phone. Santander says it explained his options to him and that, in light of his complaint to 
this service, it offered to extend the period in which he needed to make a decision by 90 
days. Santander says that Mr C said he didnt want to make any further commitments at 
this time. Santander also says it reminded Mr C that he needed to make contact before 
the due date of the lump sum and tell it what his intention was in regard to the car.
Mr C says that Santander provided him with confusing information about what his rights 
were when the agreement ended and told him that he had to pay the lump sum payment. 
He also says that, during the phone call in April 2020, Santander told him the lump sum 
wouldnt be taken from his account.
On the due date, the lump sum was debited from Mr Cs bank account and he contacted 
Santander to complain. Arrangements were made for the money to be returned to Mr C. 
Mr C made a formal complaint to Santander and said that this money being taken from 
him had caused him financial difficulties and hed incurred bank charges.
Santander didnt uphold his complaint. It said that during the phone call one week before 
the lump sum had fallen due it had been clear that this payment would be taken unless Mr 
C made contact. It said it hadnt agreed to suspend the lump sum payment date as Mr C 
hadnt taken up its 90-day extension offer.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Cs complaint should be upheld in regard to the 
mis- selling of the credit agreement or forged signature in respect of the mileage limit. He 
said the appropriate documents had been provided to Mr C shortly after taking the 
agreement and, if they had been incorrect, he would have expected Mr C to raise the 
issues he had sooner.
Our investigator also said that, looking at the three signatures shown on the paperwork, 
he couldnt say there was enough of a difference to say that one was a forgery. He said 
he didnt know what had been discussed at the dealership but he thought the terms and 
conditions, including the annual mileage limit, were clear from the paperwork which 
would have been available to Mr C, both at the time he signed the agreement and 
shortly afterwards.
Mr C disagreed with the view of our investigator and also asked that I look at his 
complaint about the way Santander had handled the ending of the agreement. He said it 
had provided confusing and conflicting advice about paying the lump sum and then had 
taken it from his account, having said that it wouldnt.
Mr C said he wouldnt have entered into a credit agreement that had a mileage limit of 
6,000, as that didnt meet his needs.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
Where evidence is incomplete or contradictory then I must decide what I think is the 
most likely thing to have happened in light of the evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
Under section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act a finance company can be held responsible 
for representations made by the seller. So, that means Santander could be held 
responsible if the car dealership made representations about the credit agreement to Mr C 
that werent correct.
Here, Mr C has complained that he was provided with a fixed sum PCP when he thought 
he was entering into a conditional sale PCP. The difference between these two types of 
agreement was that Mr C wouldnt have the right to voluntary terminate the agreement, 
though I hadnt seen that he had requested to do so. Nor had he said that this was a 
feature that was particularly important to him. Mr C also said that he was misled about the 
mileage allowance and wouldnt have taken an agreement that included a basic annual 
allowance of only 6,000 miles.
I didnt think it was disputed that there had been a discussion between Mr C and the 
salesperson at the dealership and that this, being face to face, meant that there wasnt a 
record of what had been said. Mr C said he was told the salesperson had lost their job 
shortly after hed been provided with the credit agreement, but I hadnt seen any evidence 
about that so I couldnt comment on why the salesperson no longer worked there. There 
could have been any number of reasons the salesperson was no longer employed at the 
dealership.
In regard to the credit agreement being a fixed sum loan agreement, Id seen that Mr C 
accepted that hed signed this document at the dealership. Id seen that it clearly stated 
what it was at the top. I thought that by signing it, Mr C had shown he was content to be 
bound by its terms and conditions. So, it was reasonable to have expected Mr C to be 
aware of the type of agreement he was signing and, if unhappy, to have asked questions. 
So, I didnt think I could reasonably say Mr C wouldnt have been aware that the 
agreement was a fixed sum loan agreement. The agreement also set out the monthly 
amounts and the lump sum payment due at the end of the agreement.
In regard to the annual mileage limit, Id seen that Mr C disputed having signed the sales 
agency agreement at the dealership. It was this document, which had set out the annual 
mileage allowance as 6,000. And, while I appreciated Mr C said that a mileage limit of 
6,000 wasnt discussed as, if it had been, he wouldnt have agreed to it, I was unclear 
whether a mileage limit of 15,000 was actually raised by Mr C as being what hed 
required. Nor was I clear that the salesman had actually confirmed to Mr C that the credit 
agreement included a mileage limit of 15,000 per year.
Id seen evidence that other agreements had been discussed with Mr C, but none had 
included different mileage allowances. And I thought that if various mileage allowances 
had been discussed then it was likely Mr C would have been told about differing monthly 
costs. That was because the higher the mileage limit, the bigger the impact on the cars 
value at the end of the agreement. This means the higher the overall mileage limit the 
higher the monthly costs under an agreement. I hadnt seen any evidence that would 
indicate that there had been a discussion about monthly payments for different mileage 
allowances.
Looking at the sales agency agreement, I couldnt say that the signature it bore was very 
different to the signatures on the other documents which Mr C agreed he had signed. So, I couldnt say it was an obvious forgery. I was also aware that all the documentation 
signed by Mr C at the dealership had been sent to him shortly afterwards. This paperwork 
had included a full set of the terms and conditions and details of the mileage allowance. I 
hadnt seen that Mr C had raised any issues with Santander until a year later. I thought it 
was reasonable to have expected Mr C to have looked through the paperwork to ensure 
he was happy with the agreement.
Id seen that Mr C had had credit agreements for cars in the past, so if the paperwork 
hadnt been received by him from Santander for any reason, then I would have thought it 
reasonable to have expected Mr C to have made enquiries with Santander and obtain a 
copy earlier than he had.
I didnt think there was sufficient evidence for me to find that Mr C had been misled 
by the salesperson about the mileage allowance. I thought it was more likely than not 
that either this wasnt discussed in detail, or that Mr C had misunderstood this term 
of the agreement.
Mr C said that Santander had provided unclear information about his options under the 
agreement as it was nearing its term. He says he was told trading in the car, which he had 
wanted to do wasnt allowed, nor could he hand it back. He says he was told he had to 
pay the final lump sum which had caused him considerable anxiety. Mr C says that 
Santander had later said its advice was wrong shortly before taking the lump sum from his 
bank account. He also said Santander had assured him it wouldnt take this final payment 
because of his complaint.
Id seen that there were phone calls between Mr C and Santander. Unfortunately, due to 
the passage of time, copies of these calls could no longer be provided by Santander. I 
wasnt surprised copies of these calls couldnt now be produced as its usual practice to 
only keep calls for a limited period. I also wouldnt have expected Santander to keep calls 
relating to Mr C separately because he had complained as I didnt think that would have 
been reasonably practicable. However, Santander had provided me with the notes made 
from the calls it had with Mr C.
Looking at these notes, I could see that three letters with information leaflets had been 
sent to Mr C, between January and March 2020, setting out his options. After each of the 
letters a SMS message had been sent asking Mr C to confirm which option he would be 
selecting. The three options open to Mr C were to keep the car and pay the final lump 
sum payment, return the car with nothing further to pay (unless there were charges for 
excess mileage or for any damage found to the car that was beyond fair wear and tear), 
or use the car in part exchange for another. Looking at the information provided I couldnt 
say it wasnt clear.
Id also seen that Mr C had explained to Santander in a later phone call that he had been 
trying to arrange a part-exchange for the car but had struggled, due to the impact of the 
pandemic. And there also appeared to have been a discussion about the car being 
handed back but Mr C being responsible for any excess mileage. I thought this indicated 
Mr C had been struggling to make up his mind about what hed wanted to do and could 
have explained why he said he hadnt wanted to commit himself in April 2020 when his 
complaint about the mis-selling of the agreement was ongoing with this service. However, 
I thought Mr C had been provided with sufficient information as to his three options when 
the agreement ended.
Id seen that one week before the lump sum had fallen due Santander had rang Mr C to 
ask him what his intention was in respect of the car. It had offered him a 90-day extension 
in which to make a decision, in light of the complaint he had with this service for the mis-selling of the agreement. There was no note that Mr C had been informed that his only 
option was to make the payment and Santander recorded Mr C had declined the 
extension, as he hadnt wanted to commit himself. On the due date for the lump sum 
payment the £9,125 had been debited from Mr Cs bank account.
Id seen that when Santander had received Mr Cs complaint about this money being 
taken, it had advised him about making an indemnity claim. I understood that the lump 
sum debit had been declined by Mr Cs bank though I appreciated this may have led to 
bank charges having been applied. Santander explained that Mr C hadnt accepted the 
extension and that he had been told he needed to contact Santander before the due date 
to say what he was choosing to do. When he didnt the lump sum had fallen due.
I appreciated Mr C disputed what Santander said, but I hadnt seen any evidence that 
there had been an agreement to suspend the final lump sum payment. I thought it was 
more likely than not that Santander had been waiting to hear from Mr C, and that he was 
aware of the date the money was due to be debited from his account. I didnt think it had 
been unreasonable for Santander to have debited the final payment amount when it fallen 
due in these circumstances.
I appreciated this would be of disappointment to Mr C, but I didnt think Santander 
had acted unreasonably in not upholding his two complaints. I also appreciated there 
had been times Santander said it would call and hadnt when handling his 
complaints, which would have been frustrating. Id seen that Santander had 
apologised for that. However, customer service, as such, wasnt in my remit as it isnt 
a regulated activity.
Looking at the evidence and for the reasons set out above, I didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence for me to reasonably conclude that the credit agreement had been 
mis-sold, or that Mr Cs signature on the sales agency agreement had been forged. I 
also thought Santander had set out Mr Cs options sufficiently for him to choose what he 
would like to do at the end of the agreement and had acted reasonably when it had 
debited the final payment.
So, for the reasons set out, I didnt intend to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C has strongly disagreed with my provisional decision. He says that he attended the 
dealership with a member of his family and that the discussions with the salesperson had all 
been around a basic annual mileage limit of 15,000. He says that as the salesperson was 
working to his budget, they had misled him as to the mileage to make the agreement 
affordable for him. Mr C queried why Santander hadnt asked more questions about the 
salesperson leaving the dealership.
Mr C also says that I havent fully considered the impact of having the final lump sum debited 
from his bank account as this caused him to become many thousands of pounds overdrawn. 
He says he had to request an indemnity to be arranged by his bank to have the funds 
credited back.  Mr C says that Santander had issued a default notice for his account again 
having said that it wouldnt which shows how poorly it had handled his complaints.
Mr C says that he agrees Santander had provided clear information about his options in the 
three letters sent as the agreement was reaching its full term but had provided conflicting 
information before this. He says he sought clarification from it, but this wasnt forthcoming. 
Mr C says he finally arranged a part-exchange for the car.
Santander hasnt asked me to look again at any parts of my provisional decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have gone back carefully through my conclusions and the evidence but, although I 
appreciate this will be of significant disappointment to Mr C, I havent changed my view.
Mr C says that the only basic annual mileage limit discussed with the salesperson was that it 
had to be 15,000. He says a 6,000 annual mileage limit was never raised with him. As this 
discussion was face to face I dont know what was said, however I have seen that there is 
the sales agency agreement which appears to have been signed by Mr C which clearly sets 
out the annual mileage limit is 6,000.
Mr C says that this document is a forgery. As set out above, I think the signature is very 
similar to those that appear on the other documents and which Mr C agrees he signed. So, 
on the signature alone I cant reasonably say that a fraud has been committed by the 
salesperson. 
Im also aware that Mr C received copies of the documentation as part of his welcome pack 
shortly after acquiring the car. This appears to have been the established process when 
entering into a credit agreement for a car with Santander. And I think its more likely than not 
that the salesperson would have also been aware of the sending of the paperwork directly to 
Mr C. So, I think it would have been clear any forgery should be quickly discovered. Mr C 
didnt raise any issues about the terms and conditions of the agreement for one year after he 
took out the agreement.
I appreciate Mr C says he was told the salesperson had been fired but I dont have any 
evidence of that. I think Santander acted reasonably in ascertaining they no longer worked at 
the dealership but as there are potential data protection/confidentiality issues I wouldnt 
expect it to have made detailed enquiries or for the dealership to have answered those if it 
had. I think its fair that I acknowledge a person can leave their job for a number of reasons 
and so attach little weight to what Mr C had been told about the salespersons departure.
I still dont think I have enough evidence to be able to reasonably say that this signature is a 
forgery and on the balance of probabilities, that is that its more likely than not, I think Mr C 
signed that document. This means that Mr C should have been aware the annual mileage 
limit had been set at 6,000.
Mr C says that Santander provided him with conflicting advice about his options when the 
agreement ended. He accepts the letters sent out in January and March 2020 were clear 
about the three options available. Looking at the contact notes made by Santander, I can 
see that it had a discussion with Mr C about his complaint regarding the mileage allowance 
and contract type. Santander told Mr C, after its investigation, that it wouldnt be upholding 
his complaint. However, I cant see any reference to a discussion about the final lump sum 
payment. Santander did inform him that the agreement was a fixed sum loan PCP so its 
possible that it would have been raised by Santander that Mr C didnt have the right to 
voluntary terminate the agreement and this was misunderstood by Mr C. But I accept thats 
speculation on my part and so it wouldnt be fair for me to say that is what has happened.
I can see from the notes that after the first letter setting out Mr Cs options was sent out in 
January 2020, he made contact with Santander to advise that he had made a complaint to 
this service. There is no note that he raised a query about his options as the agreement was 
coming to an end. There followed a further two letters in identical terms but the next contact 
with Mr C was when Santander called him in April 2020 to ask what he was planning to do. I appreciate Mr C says that he tried to make contact but wasnt able to get an answer from 
Santander, but even if there were missed calls, I think it had provided him with the correct 
information. I dont think its likely Santander had misled him that his only option was to pay 
the final lump sum.
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration that I havent been able to listen to the April 2020 phone call. 
However, I have seen the notes taken from that call which set out Mr C was offered a 90-day 
extension in which he could decide what he wanted to do. Santander says Mr C declined this 
offer and at the end of the call he was reminded that the due date of the lump sum payment 
was close and he would need to make contact with it. I accept the contents of these notes is 
more likely than not what was said between Mr C and Santander.
As Mr C had declined the extension then I think Santander acted reasonably in seeking the 
direct debit for the lump sum when it feel due. Santander says that this payment was 
declined by the bank and I think that as it had caused Mr Cs bank account to become 
heavily overdrawn that is likely to be correct. However, the request for the payment would 
mean that the amount would be deducted from the account before then being refused by the 
bank and later credited back. This would incur bank charges. Ive seen that Santander also 
recommended Mr C make an indemnity claim so that the funds would reappear quickly.
I appreciate this debiting of the lump sum payment from Mr Cs account would have caused 
him anxiety as it resulted in him being overdrawn. However, I cant reasonably say he wasnt 
aware of the date this payment was due and he had declined the extension. 
Mr C has queried my comment about not having the remit to look at complaints about the 
service hed received from Santander when it was handling his complaint. I apologise if this 
comment was unclear. This service cant look at how a complaint has been handled by a 
business, but it can look at any acts or omissions by a firm carrying out a regulated activity 
(such as providing credit agreements for instance). This means that I can look at whether 
Santander provided Mr C with misleading advice about the agreement but if it didnt return 
phone calls about his complaint then I may not be able to look at that alone. However, as set 
out above I think I have explored Mr Cs contact with Santander.
Mr C has also raised the issuing of the default notice which I understand was withdrawn by 
Santander and that there is no adverse information showing on Mr Cs credit file in respect of 
this account. As Santander has actioned this in a reasonably quick time and Mr C hasnt 
raised that this caused him any detriment then I dont think its necessary for me to ask it to 
do anymore.
For the reason given above, and while I am sorry to cause Mr C disappointment, Im not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman