DRN-4065796
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the amount of time its taking Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as 
Virgin Money (Virgin), to resolve his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974.
What happened
Mr S bought a hot tub from a third party, using his Virgin credit card. He later raised a claim 
with Virgin under section 75, as he didnt think the hot tub was fit for purpose. However, hes 
unhappy with the amount of time its taking Virgin to resolve his claim, so hes brought a 
complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened, but didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. She noted that there are no time limits for a business to investigate and 
resolve a section 75 claim. However, Virgin had offered to pay Mr S £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill, in acknowledgement of the time the claim is taking.
Mr S didnt agree, so his complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. As our investigator has explained, there 
are no time limits within which a business must resolve a section 75 claim. That said, Id 
expect it to be done within a reasonable time. In this case, Im satisfied that Virgin was 
entitled to decide to ask for further information, meaning of course that resolution would take 
longer. I understand it is reviewing this information, and has also paid Mr S £50 as a gesture 
of goodwill. Accordingly, I consider that Virgin has acted fairly and reasonably. Nor do I think 
that Virgin has ignored Mr S. It is reviewing the information provided, and I see no reason to 
doubt that it sent the final response letter.
My final decision
Its my final decision that the £50 paid by Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, is 
fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Elspeth Wood
Ombudsman