DRN-4468849
The complaint
Mr L complains that Ageas Insurance Limited have declined his claim for damage to his 
staircase, walls, floor, and carpet caused by an accidental paint spillage.
What happened
Mr L has household buildings and contents insurance with Ageas. In September 2022 he 
contacted them to make a claim for damage caused after a tub of paint was dropped on his 
staircase. 
Mr L told Ageas that his son was coming downstairs carrying a tub of paint. He slipped, 
dropping the paint tub which hit his knee and then fell down the stairs spraying paint over the 
surrounding area. There was damage to the stair carpet, spindles of the staircase, the 
flooring in the hall and the wallpaper in the hall and up the stairs. Some paint also splashed 
into his dining room/office causing damage to one wall and the door.
Mr L has told us that his wife was able to clean the spilt paint off the laminate flooring in the 
hall, where a pool of paint had collected. He says they tried to clean the walls, but the day 
after the incident they were stained. Theyd also tried to clean the paint off the spindles and 
stair carpet, but there was paint they couldnt remove.   
He reported the incident to Ageas in late September 2022. They sent out two assessors on 8 
October 2022. One to assess the damage to his carpet, and the other to assess the walls, 
floor, and staircase.
Mr Ls claim was declined by Ageas as they said there were inconsistences between what 
hed reported had happened, and the damage the assessors found.
In declining Mr Ls claim Ageas relied on a desktop forensic report prepared by an expert 
they instructed. The writer of the report spoke to Mr L, his wife, and his son, before preparing 
their report and considered photographs provided by Ageas. But they didnt visit Mr Ls 
property to view the damage themselves.
The report says that the assessors who attended Mr Ls property were concerned that the 
pattern of the reported damage didnt match the account hed provided.
The account provided during the telephone conversation the expert had with Mr L appears to 
be consistent with what Mr L reported to Ageas, with a bit more detail. He said the paint tub 
had been about a quarter full before the incident, with the brush his son had been using 
inside the tub and the lid was on. The paint tub ended up at the bottom of the stairs empty, 
and the photographs show the paint damage concentrated on the bottom three steps of the 
staircase. There was also paint on the laminate flooring in the hall, which Mr L and his wife 
were able to clean up. This was done before the photographs were taken.
The report assumes that as the paint tub fell downstairs it travelled in the direction shown by 
the green arrow in Figure 6. And says that if the drop happened as Mr L has said theyd 
expect to see more damage on the top of the bottom step, and its unusual that there are 
less stains on the bottom step.
The report also says that its difficult to explain how the paint damaged the spindles on the 
left of the stairs and the bottom edge of the wall shown in Figure 2, as theres no paint in the 
centre of the stairs or between the first section of stains and those at the bottom. The report 
writer says she wouldnt expect damage to be seen on either side of the staircase, and then 
at the bottom of the stairs. 
Looking at the stains in the room to the right of the stairs, the report says the direction of the 
paint, shown by the green arrow in Figure 6, would have to turn 90 degrees to be able to 
travel in and onto the door to the right when looking down the stairs, which is impossible. 
And to cause the splash/dots seen into that room let alone the splash on a door and go 
through a gap where the hinges are, damage would be expected on the bottom of the door 
frame or door on the side of the hinges which arent seen in Figure 6.
So the report concluded that the areas of damage reported by Mr L couldnt be reconciled 
with the account of the incident provided by Mr L and his family, so the claim couldnt be 
verified as they couldnt rule out that the incident had been exaggerated or staged to obtain 
the benefit of the policy. 
Mr L wasnt happy that his claim had been declined or about the delay in dealing with his 
claim and providing him with updates. So he raised a complaint on 13 January 2023. His 
complaint was acknowledged by Ageas on 19 January 2023.
Ageas wrote to Mr L on 1 February 2023 following receipt of their experts report. They set 
out their experts findings and said that in her opinion the damage hed reported wasnt 
caused by one event, as the amount of and location of the damage was inconsistent with the 
version of events hed given. And it appeared impossible that some of the damage had been 
caused by the incident hed described. They didnt send Mr L a copy of the experts report.
In their letter Ageas said that they werent able to validate Mr Ls claim based on the 
information he provided. And they asked him to provide information to address their 
concerns and any evidence which might change their position within 21 days. They 
reminded him of his obligation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take care and provide accurate answers to all 
questions. 
Mr L replied to Ageas by email on 18 February 2023. He said he didnt agree with the 
assumptions theyd made and raised a Subject Access Request (SAR). 
He went on to provide further details of the incident. He said that when the paint tub bounced 
off his sons knee, the tub hit his knee off centre bouncing the paint and tub towards the 
spindles, hitting the spindles, splashing some of the paint onto the spindles, door, floor, and 
wall. And he attached a further copy of a photograph hed previously provided, showing paint 
on the bottom of the door, and on the side where the hinges are.
Mr L said he didnt understand what was implied by the experts comments about the 
direction the paint tub had travelled, and asked Ageas to clarify this.
In relation to what the report said about expecting to see more damage on the bottom step, 
Mr L said he couldnt explain why the paint tub landed as it did. He asked Ageas to provide 
diagrams and calculations to support their theory. 
He also said that as shed told one of their advisors, his wife started cleaning the bottom step 
and the laminate flooring, as this was new, but this still has remnants of paint in the joints. She also tried to clean the bottom step, but realised dye was coming out of the carpet and 
the paint was going to be impossible to get off. Shed also told their advisor that they 
wouldnt need to claim for the laminate flooring, as they thought the remnants of paint would 
wear off.
Mr L also said that the expert hadnt looked at the photographs correctly, so he didnt accept 
their opinion. When the first assessor visited his property Mr L says he told Mr L that he 
could see how the damage had happened, and it was the assessor who suggested they 
claim for the wall in the office/dining room. He also asked why hed received an email 
confirming they could go ahead with the claim for carpet damage in November 2022.
He concluded his email by saying they felt the decision was wrong and felt insulted by the 
comments Ageas had made. As rather than claiming for more damage theyd tried to reduce 
it by cleaning the wallpaper, laminate, and carpet.
In their final response letter dated 20 February 2023 Ageas acknowledged that it had taken 
them longer that was acceptable to deal with validation of his claim. And Mr L hadnt been 
provided with any updates. They apologised for this and offered him £150 as a gesture of 
goodwill, which they said would be sent to him shortly.
But they said they made the correct decision in declining his claim, due to the inconsistences 
with the damage. They said they might look to reconsider things if Mr L replied to their letter 
of 1 February 2023.
Mr L wasnt happy with the response Ageas provided and complained to our service. Our 
investigator considered the case but didnt uphold the complaint. 
He said Ageas had provided an experts report which says the damage reported by Mr L 
couldnt have happened as he described, as the paint would have needed to change 
direction. Some of the paint on the staircase spindles appeared to be remnants of old paint 
which he couldnt hold Ageas responsible for. And the paint spills on the stair carpet 
appeared inconsistent with the account Mr L had provided of how the paint tub fell. So based 
on the evidence he felt Ageas had acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators opinion. And he made the following comments: -
 Hes explained that the paint tub changed direction as it initially bounced sideways 
off his sons knee. It gained momentum off his knee travelling upwards as his son fell 
down the stairs. This caused the paint tub to hit the spindles, spraying paint along 
the spindles with the tub eventually landing at the bottom of the stairs.
The paint tub hit his sons knee off centre and tipped sideways. This was 
exacerbated by the paint sloshing around in the tub.
 Our investigator accepted the expert opinion provided by Ageas, but this said there 
was no paint splatter on the edge of the door. But paint splatter can be seen on the 
door in one of the photos.
The expert has predicted how they say the paint tub would have landed and how the 
paint would have splattered. But this would be very difficult to predict after hitting his 
sons knee and ricocheting off the bannisters. And the paint in the tub would affect 
this. Mr L is a mechanical engineer and asks to see any calculations and vector 
drawings to support the experts opinion. He wants to know how the expert predicted 
the exact location and spread of the paint splashes.He doesnt understand the statement that there appears to be old paint on the 
spindles which Ageas cant be held responsible for, as he fitted the spindles which 
have never been painted, only varnished. There is paint on both sides of the 
spindles because it ran down the spiral grooves of the spindles during the accident.
 He hasnt seen the experts report and needs a copy to understand what is said 
about the damage to the stair carpet. But a quarter full large tub of paint can cause a 
lot of damage.
 Ageas seem to be suggesting he and his family staged the incident, which is absurd 
after theyd decorated, re-varnished, put down new flooring before the incident and 
attempted to clean up the spilt paint.
 Ageas sent him a cheque for £150 and admitted theyd acted incorrectly.
 Ageas initially led him to believe his claim was going to be settled as he received a 
letter and an email from the firm dealing with his claim for the damaged carpet, 
saying the claim could proceed. But it then took five months for him to be told the 
claim had been declined.
 His Subject Access Request remains outstanding and our investigator hasnt 
mentioned this.
 He doesnt understand how our investigator thinks hes been treated fairly and 
reasonably. There was an accident and hes been made to feel as if hes been 
dishonest, and this has caused a lot of stress and anxiety.
Our investigator provided a copy of Mr Ls comments to Ageas but they didnt provide any 
response to these.
Ageas hadnt sent Mr L a copy of their experts report. Our investigator sent Mr L a copy of 
the report and hes provided some further comments after considering the report.
This is what hes said regarding how the accident happened: -
His son was coming downstairs holding the paint tub. The lid of the tub wasnt sealed 
shut as the paintbrush was upright inside, being held in place by lid so it didnt slip 
down into the tub.
His son slipped and dropped the paint tub. The lid dropped to his right causing a 
mark on the step just above the middle of the stairs, it then bounced to the floor. 
The tub hit his sons knee which propelled it sideways. Mr L thinks the tub probably 
hit his sons knee with some force as he was trying to right himself. The tub then hit 
the bannisters rail high up causing paint to run down the handrail and the spindles 
splattering the walls and door to the side of the stairs. The tub then slid down the 
bannisters hitting the bottom stairs and ending up on the hall floor.
His wife and son tried to clean up and mess and were still doing this when he got 
home from work. He told them to stop as they needed to contact the insurers. Theyd 
only just had the laminate flooring in the hall fitted and decorated the hall. 
His wife contacted Ageas who asked for photographs of the damage. She explained 
they cleaned up some of it.  Two assessors visited and didnt express any concerns about the accident. He 
wasnt intending to claim for the damage to the office/dining room, as this was to be 
decorated, but the assessor said they should.
 Comments on the experts report: -
The report says the paint tub was sealed, but it wasnt.
The photographs used in the report dont show all of the paint damage.
The report comments that there is no paint in the centre of the stairs. This is because 
as they told Ageas in the initial call report the accident, his son was covered in paint, 
as a lot fell on him rather than on the area of the stairs highlighted in the report.
The small blue circle marked on the photo (Fig 5) was a secondary paint mark from 
his sons hand which was covered in paint, where he pushed off the step to stand 
back up, rather than the tub lid hitting it, although this may have contributed.
Since our investigator considered the case were asked Ageas to provide copies of any calls 
between the and Mr L and his wife. Theyre provided four calls. 
The first call is dated 29 September 2022 and is a call from Mrs L on behalf of her husband 
to provide more information about the accident, which had been reported earlier that week. 
She tells Ageas that her son slipped four steps from the bottom of the stairs. She says that 
there was paint on the bottom four steps and splashes everywhere, on the opposite wall and 
even though the living room door was closed, paint had got through the space around the 
door. 
Ageas wanted to set up a video call to view the damage, but they werent able to get this to 
work, so they asked Mrs L to send photographs and provided details of where to send these. 
Before the call ended Mrs L told Ageas that she hadnt thought to take a photograph of the 
puddle of paint at the bottom of the stairs before she cleaned this off the laminate.
The second call is dated 3 January 2023. This is Mr L calling Ageas to complain that hes 
heard nothing from them for three months. Hes clearly very unhappy with the service hes 
received. Its a very short call and ends when hes put on hold to be transferred. 
The third call is dated 23 January 2023. Mrs L calls Ageas for an update and says they 
havent heard anything since the call of 26 September 2022. Shes told Ageas need further 
information. She asks what they need as she says theyve had their report for over a month. 
Shes told just in relation to settlement of the claim. 
Mr L then takes over the call and asks what that means. Ageas reply that its how theyre 
going to proceed with the claim. Mr L says he wouldnt be confident about them sending 
anyone to do the work and asks to speak to a manager. He clearly unhappy and asks 
whether Ageas are incompetent or simply dont want to spend money on the claim. He 
makes the point that theyve never made a claim before. Hes told they understand his 
frustration and wanting his claim resolved and that a call back from a manager will be 
arranged.
The final call is dated 30 January 2023. Ageas called to speak to Mr L as hed requested a 
call from a manager. Mrs L takes the call and says her husband isnt home from work. She 
says that the assessors were sent out quite quickly, but nothing has happened since then. 
Theyve been told that the claim for their carpet had been verified, but the other work needs 
to be done before this. She says theyd logged a complaint and intend to contact the Financial Ombudsman. Shes told Mr L should receive a letter in about a week. But when 
she asks what this says, shes told the caller cant say as they dont have access to the 
letter. 
Ageas havent provided the initial call when Mr L reported the accident.
We also asked Ageas to confirm whether they responded to Mr Ls email of 18 February 
2023, as theres no record of a response in the information theyve sent us. Ageas have told 
us that someone reviewed the letter but no one contacted Mr L about it.
And we asked Ageas for their comments on what Mr L has said about their experts report. 
Theyve sent a copy of his comments to their expert who has said that they contain the 
following inconsistences: -
Initially no comments regarding the lid/hand damage.
Sons hand caused part of the paint damage.
The lid was not on the paint tub fully.
The lid caused part of the paint damage.
She also says that the tub bouncing off the sons knee doesnt alter the analysis conducted 
on the stains present. And she says there can only be one version of the truth and Mr L cant 
keep changing the version of events in the hope that one will work out as an adequate 
explanation.
She then goes on to say that to accept the damage happened in the way Mr L has said, we 
would have to accept the following and that they all happened in one event: -
The paint turned 90 degrees to damage the room at the bottom of the stairs.
The paint damage started at the top of the stairs.
The paint damaged the left side of the stairs as well as the wall on the right.
The bigger areas of damage at the bottom of the stairs avoided the bottom step.
The flooring was also damaged but was able to be cleaned well.
A stain was also caused by the sons hand.
And the same stain caused by the sons hand was also caused by the paint lid.
She says that this just isnt possible. And shes loathe to explain why because the more 
information Mr L receives the more he alters his version of events to try and explain his own 
inconsistences. 
The case then came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 20 October 
2023 and in it I said: -
Having considered the accounts of the accident provided by Mr L and his wife I cant see any 
real inconsistencies in the information theyve provided to Ageas. In saying this Im taking 
into account that Mr L wasnt at home when the accident happened, so what hes said is 
based on what he was told by his wife and his son. And Ageas havent provided the first call Mr L made to report the incident.
The first call we have been provided with about the accident is on 29 September 2022. 
Ageas seem very concerned about the area covered by splashes of paint. But a couple of 
days after the incident Mrs L told them there were splashes everywhere including on the 
opposite wall, on the living room door, and some paint had managed to get through the gap 
around the closed door into the living room. So this isnt damage thats been added to the 
claim at a later stage.
The assessors report dated 12 October 2022 regarding the paint damage confirms that this 
assessor validated Mr Ls claim. This is consistent with Mr L telling us that he didnt intend to 
claim for the damage in the living room, as this was to be redecorated, but one of the 
assessors told him he should. 
I accept what Mr L has said about this, as I dont think theres any evidence that hes tried to 
exaggerate this claim. Quite the contrary. He and his wife spent a lot of time cleaning up the 
spilt paint from the laminate in their hallway. And despite there being some paint marks left 
on the laminate, he didnt claim for this as hes told us he thought the marks would wear off 
over time.
The expert report Ageas rely on is dated 13 December 2022. Its a desktop report based on 
photographs of the damage. Mr L hadnt been provided with a copy of the report, until we 
sent it to him. Details of his comments on the report are set out above together with the 
experts comments on what Mr L has said about the report.
I think its perfectly reasonable for Mr L to have added to the account provided after the 
incident. When Ageas declined his claim they said they might reconsider if he provided 
further information by 21 February 2023. He provided further information in his email of 18 
February 2023, but he received no response to this. And Ageas have confirmed that 
someone looked at the email but it wasnt actioned. 
And having been sent a copy of the experts report Mr L provided further comments, which is 
what Id expect him to have done. Had Ageas provided him with a copy of the report when 
they declined his claim, he could have provided his comments in his email of 18 February 
2023.
Im not persuaded that Mr L has been embellishing his account of the incident and the 
damage it caused. I accept that hes added to his account but theres been a reason for him 
doing this. And the areas of damage hes reported have remained the same. So Im satisfied 
that the further information hes provided has been an attempt to answer the concerns raised 
by Ageas about his claim.
Turning to the experts report Im not persuaded by her conclusions. The report is based on 
a number of assumptions about how the paint tub would have fallen and where the paint 
would have landed. But the report seems to ignore the account provided by Mr L and his 
family. And when asked by Mr L, who works as an engineer, to provide details and 
calculations to support her findings, the expert has said shes loathe to explain why because 
the more information Mr L receives the more he alters his version of events to try and 
explain his own inconsistences. Mr Ls account has been called into question and hes 
asked for more information about how she reached her findings, which I think is entirely 
reasonable.
And I dont accept her statement of all the things she says would have had to have 
happened for the damage to have occurred in one event and as Mr L has stated, and that 
this just isnt possible.We dont know that the paint turned 90 degrees to damage the room at the bottom of the 
stairs. Her report states this, but I accept Mr Ls account that when the lid came off the paint 
pot, paint went everywhere. 
There was a lot of damage towards the bottom of the stairs. I dont think theres anything 
suspicious about there being less damage on the bottom step. Mr L and his wife have both 
confirmed that she started to clean the bottom step before realising that dye was coming out 
of the carpet. So the damage didnt avoid the bottom step. And if there was less paint on this 
step it could simply have been from the way the paint pot fell. 
When the claim was reported Mr L and his wife both told Ageas that there was a pool of 
paint on the laminate flooring in the hall, which they were able to clean up. I accept what Mr 
L has said about this, and if he was going to fabricate or exaggerate his claim, I think hed 
have included a claim for the laminate flooring, which hes told us still had some paint marks 
on it. So I dont understand why the expert is saying the laminate flooring wasnt damaged. 
Id expect laminate to be far easier to clean than carpet, which the paint would have started 
to soak into immediately. So I dont think theres any inconsistency here.
I think Mr L has done his best to comply with his obligation under the Consumer Insurance 
(Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) to take care and provide accurate 
answers to all the questions Ageas put to him. And Im not persuaded that hes exaggerated 
or misrepresented the damage caused by the accidental paint spillage that occurred in his 
home in September 2022. I accept his account of the damage this caused to his property 
and how this occurred. 
So I dont think Ageas acted fairly when they declined Mr Ls claim. And to put things right I 
require them to accept his claim and to assess it in line with his policy terms and conditions 
on the basis that the damage he reported was caused by an accidental paint spillage in 
September 2022.
Ageas have accepted that there were unnecessary delays in them dealing with Mr Ls claim 
and that he wasnt kept updated, and theyve paid him £150 compensation for this. Taking 
into account all that happened, including the delays, the lack of updates and that Ageas told 
Mr L theyd review his claim if he provided further information, but they failed to even 
acknowledge the further information he sent them within the timescale theyd provided, I 
dont think this is enough. 
I think the way Ageas have handed Mr Ls claim has caused him distress and 
inconvenience. And I require them to pay him £350 compensation for this, inclusive of the 
£150 theyve already paid.
Mr L has told us the Ageas havent responded to his Subject Access Request. If this remains 
outstanding and its something Mr L wants to pursue he needs to contact the Information 
Commissioners Office as this isnt something I can comment on.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L has told us that he has nothing to add to my provisional decision. Ageas havent made 
any comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As Mr L has indicated that he has nothing to add to my provisional decision and Ageas 
havent made any comments, I see no reason to reconsider my findings.
Putting things right
I dont think Ageas acted fairly when they declined Mr Ls claim. And to put things right I 
require them to accept his claim and to assess it in line with his policy terms and conditions 
on the basis that the damage he reported was caused by an accidental paint spillage in 
September 2022.
Ageas have accepted that there were unnecessary delays in them dealing with Mr Ls claim 
and that he wasnt kept updated, and theyve paid him £150 compensation for this. Taking 
into account all that happened, including the delays, the lack of updates and that Ageas told 
Mr L theyd review his claim if he provided further information, but they failed to even 
acknowledge the further information he sent them within the timescale theyd provided, I 
dont think this is enough. 
I think the way Ageas have handed Mr Ls claim has caused him distress and 
inconvenience. And I require them to pay him £350 compensation for this, inclusive of the 
£150 theyve already paid.
Mr L has told us the Ageas havent responded to his Subject Access Request. If this remains 
outstanding and its something Mr L wants to pursue he needs to contact the Information 
Commissioners Office as this isnt something I can comment on.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Ls complaint about Ageas Insurance Limited.
And to put things right I require them to that the steps set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman