DRN-1465196
 
The complaint
Mrs D, on behalf of her mother Ms H, complains about a whole of life policy administered by 
Phoenix Life Limited. She says the policy was never suitable and that continuing to pay 
premiums that total far more that the sum assured has put Ms H at a financial disadvantage. 
What happened
Phoenix Life explained that Ms H's policy is a "B&Q Masterplan", a type of life policy sold 
directly to customers at branches of the DIY retail store on an 'execution-only' basis. This 
meant no adviser made a recommendation to Ms H; rather, it had been her own decision to 
decide whether she wanted the policy, based on the information provided in its promotional 
literature.
Phoenix Life acknowledged that Ms H would've paid more in premiums than the sum 
assured, but stressed this was the nature of this type of policy and that in the initial years the 
benefit would've exceeded the premiums paid.
Although Phoenix Life didn't uphold the complaint it did offer Mrs H £100 for incorrectly 
saying it would be able to provide a copy of the original application form, which it transpired 
wasn't actually available.
Mrs D didn't accept Phoenix Life's response and referred the complaint to this service. But 
our investigator reached broadly the same conclusion as Phoenix Life. She noted Ms H's 
recollection that she been sold the policy by an adviser who'd visited her at home, not in a 
store as Phoenix Life had said. But the investigator felt the fact that Ms H's policy had a 'BQ' 
policy number and the format of the policy schedule matched the template example provided 
by Phoenix Life suggested it was more likely than not that Ms H's policy had been sold 
without advice.
The investigator also emphasised Phoenix Life's point about there always being a possibility 
of paying more in premiums than the sum assured, the amount of which she noted had been 
clearly stated in the policy schedule.
Mrs D maintained that the policy couldn't have been sold in store and highlighted Phoenix 
Life's failure to retain a copy of the application form as reason to doubt the accuracy of its 
explanation. She also said that Ms H had been receiving advice on the reinvestment of a 
maturing bond around the same time as the policy started, which made it highly unlikely that 
she'd have decided to start a life policy without advice, and in a DIY store. She also noted 
that B&Q had been unable to confirm the sales of these policies had taken place in its 
stores. 
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I recognise Mrs D 
and her mother will be very disappointed, I find I've come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator and for much the same reasons.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the evidence and wider circumstances.
I understand that Ms H has no recollection of taking out the policy on the basis of 
documentation provided to her in B&Q. So, I can see that, as she was receiving financial 
advice around the time in question, it's not unreasonable for her to conclude that the policy 
was recommended as part of that, or related, advice. It's also unfortunate there isn't more 
original personalised documentation available - most notably the application form for the 
policy. 
But we do know that Ms H's policy has a number starting 'BQ', that the schedule refers to it 
as a 'MasterPlan', and that the level of life cover automatically increased by 10% after the 
first five years. All these things are features of the product sold in B&Q stores and match the 
details set out in the promotional literature for that product. 
So, on balance, I think it's more likely than not that Ms H's policy was sold in the 
way Phoenix Life has described, on an 'execution-only' basis. And that being so, I think the 
documentation would've made clear what the policy was and how it worked, so that Ms H 
would've been in an informed position to decide whether she wanted to proceed with it. 
In closing, I'd simply reiterate the point already made that it's the nature of how this type of 
policy works that it will often be the case that more is paid in to it than will ever be paid out. 
Whether the arrangement is of value is something that the potential policyholder must 
decide, based on clear information from the policy provider. Which, as noted, I'm satisfied, 
on balance, was provided in the case of this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman