DRN-3936246
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car she was financing through an agreement with Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited, was not of satisfactory quality and, when it cancelled the agreement, she wasnt 
fairly charged for her usage. 
What happened
Miss S entered a conditional sale agreement in February 2021 for the purchase of a used 
car. The car was nearly four years old and had travelled just over 40,000 miles at the point of 
supply. The cash price of the car was £13,397, Miss S agreed to repay the loan at 31.9% 
rate of interest, a total of £22,203.74 over 48 months, with monthly instalments of £472.42.
The events are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here in detail. In summary, 
Miss S experienced several faults within the first six months of being supplied the car. The 
dealership carried out repairs, but in July 2022 the car broke down with gearbox failure, the 
dealership had previously repaired the gearbox. The dealership agreed to buy back the car 
and it was returned to the dealership on 31 August 2022. The dealership paid Miss S 
£9,207.23 and Moneybarn £2,792.77 to settle the remaining balance on Miss S account. 
Miss S complained to Moneybarn, she didnt think the dealerships offer went far enough. 
She brought her complaint to our service. In the meantime, Moneybarn cancelled Miss S 
agreement and paid her £1,587.26, which included;
A refund of three-monthly instalments (£1,417.26) to reflect the loss of use and 
enjoyment of the car. 
A £30 compensation payment to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
A £90 refund for the expense of fitting the dashcam.
A £50 refund to cover the cost of the insurance cancellation fee.
Miss S remained unhappy; she said she had made 18 monthly instalments and several 
overpayments, the total repaid to Moneybarn was £14,703.56, but was refunded a total of 
£10,624.49 (£9,207.23 from the dealership and the three refunded instalments £1,417.26). 
She doesnt think it is fair for Moneybarn to retain £4,079.07 for her usage for 18 months. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She didnt think Moneybarn needed to do 
anything else because Miss S had been provided with a courtesy car on nearly every 
occasion the car was in the garage and she had managed to cover around 10,000 miles, so 
thought it was fair that she paid for her usage and didnt recommend Moneybarn refund any 
further instalments.
Miss S disagreed, she asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. I told Moneybarn 
that I thought it needed to pay Miss S a further £120 compensation to reflect the 
inconvenience caused and add 8% simple interest to the refund payments. Moneybarn didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
And our rules allow me to do this. This reflects the nature of our service as a free and 
informal alternative to the courts.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated a conditional sale agreement. As such, this 
service is able to consider complaints relating to it. Moneybarn is also the supplier of the 
goods under this agreement and is responsible for a complaint about its quality.
The parties appear to agree that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Miss S. So, what is in dispute here is whether Moneybarn has done enough to settle Miss S 
complaint fairly or whether it needs to do anything else.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says a consumer can reject a car where a repair fails, as 
seems to be the case here and the consumer is entitled to a refund for what theyve paid 
minus any deduction for any usage had. 
Miss S had paid Moneybarn £14,703.56 towards her agreement at the point it was 
cancelled. She has been refunded a total of £10,624.49 towards her agreement, in effect this 
means Moneybarn has retained a total of £4,079.07 for Miss S use of the car over 18 
months. Miss S doesnt think this fairly reflects her usage and says Moneybarn has unfairly 
benefited.
Miss S has referred to another final decision where the ombudsman said they didnt think a 
payment of over £220 per month was a fair reflection of what usage should be, but this isnt 
a general cap on usage, it relates solely to the individual facts of that case (where the 
monthly repayments and the total repayable under the agreement were considerably less 
than here).
 
There isnt any set formula for working out what fair usage should be and there isnt any 
guidance on this in the agreement Miss S signed. So, Ive taken into account Miss S usage, 
the amount of interest charged on the agreement, and what its likely to have cost her to stay 
mobile if she hadnt entered this agreement.
 
I agree that it wouldnt be fair for Moneybarn to retain Miss S full monthly instalments over 
18 months, as a significant proportion of those repayments went towards repaying the 
interest. And if Miss S hadnt been provided with a courtesy car, then I wouldnt expect her to 
have to make monthly payments for the time her own car was not available for use. But in 
this case, Miss S was provided with a courtesy car for the most part, every time her car went 
back to the garage, and she still managed to cover 10,000 miles in her car. That being the 
case, I dont think its unreasonable for Moneybarn to retain money for her usage. And If 
Miss S hadnt made payments for this particular car, I think its likely shed have been 
making similar payments to her monthly instalments, for another car to stay mobile.
 Following the refund of three-monthly instalments, Moneybarn retained 18 monthly 
instalments of £226.61 for Miss S use of the car. So, taking everything into consideration, Im 
satisfied its reasonable and fair for Moneybarn to retain £4,079.07 to reflect Miss S usage. 
So, I dont think Moneybarn has to refund any further instalments.
 
Ive also considered the compensation paid to Miss S. Moneybarn paid her £30 for distress 
and inconvenience caused. And whilst I can see that she was kept mobile with a courtesy 
car for the most part. I can see that she returned the car to the garage on several occasions, 
and I think this wouldve been frustrating for her, so I think Moneybarn should pay Miss S a 
further £120 compensation (total £150 compensation) to reflect this. 
Moneybarn has also refunded three-monthly instalments to reflect her loss of enjoyment and 
reimbursed Miss S out of pocket expenses (dashcam fitting cost and insurance cancellation 
fee). Which I think is fair, however it doesnt appear that Moneybarn has added any interest 
to those refunded amounts. And its our approach that where a consumer is deprived of 
money -meaning they didnt have it available for use, the business should pay 8 % simple 
interest on top of the refunded payments. So, if it hasnt already, I think Moneybarn should 
now do this. 
I appreciate this decision will probably come as a disappointment to Miss S, but this is the 
final stage of our process, and we are unable to comment further. And Miss S is free to 
reject this decision and pursue this matter by alternative means- should she wish to.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I think this complaint should be partly upheld and I instruct 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to;
1. pay Miss S an additional £120 compensation for the inconvenience caused
2. pay Miss S 8% simple interest per year from the date of the payment was made until 
the date of the following refund payments:
the £90 refund for the dashcam fitting
the £50 refund to cover the cost of the insurance cancellation fee
the refund of the June, July and August 2022 monthly instalments
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Karen Dennis
Ombudsman