DRN-3853468
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Hugh James Solicitors, trading as Hugh James Independent 
Financial Advisers, gave him unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefits from his 
occupational pension scheme (OPS)  the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS)  to a 
Personal Pension Policy (PPP).
What happened
The investigator who considered this matter set out the background to the complaint in his 
assessment of the case. Im broadly setting out the same background below, with some 
amendments for the purposes of this decision.
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, one of
which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Js employer would be set up  the BSPS 2.
This was, however, intended to receive deferred benefits only. The main defined benefit
OPS had been replaced by a new defined contribution scheme. The existing scheme was
due to be closed in the near future, with the options being set out in a subsequent letter in
October 2017 for deferred members to either transfer their benefits to the successor
scheme, BSPS 2, the PPF or into a private arrangement, such as a PPP.
The scheme trustees provided Mr J with a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) on 16
October 2017 of £330,809 in respect of 20 years and 6 months membership. Mr J met with 
Hugh James on 2 November 2017 with his circumstances and objectives recorded in a fact 
find.
According to the document, Mr J was married, 40 years old with an intended retirement
age of 58, in good health, and owned his current residence. An attitude to risk questionnaire
established that Mr J was categorised as balanced.
Hugh James completed an analysis of the BSPS CETV on 8 November 2017, calculating 
that Mr J would receive a pension of £23,504 pa from the BSPS at age 65 (or £15,577 pa 
with a lump sum of £103,848) or £17,046 pa (or £11,702 pa with a lump sum of £78,091) at 
age 60.
In order for the CETV to match these benefits, Hugh James calculated that the following 
minimum annual growth rates would be needed (the critical yields):
6.24% for full pension (or 5.1% with tax-free cash lump sum) at age 65.
6.85% for full pension (or 5.46% with tax-free cash lump sum) at age 60.
7.27% for full pension (or 5.79% with tax-free cash lump sum) at age 58.
Hugh James also calculated that if the CETV were to achieve a medium rate of return (5%) 
and benefits taken at the same rate as provided by the occupational scheme increasing by 
RPI, the fund would last until the following ages:
Age 103 at full pension from age 65 (or age 119 if tax-free cash was taken).
Age 106 at full pension from age 60 (or age 120 if tax-free cash was taken).
Hugh Jamess suitability report was completed on 9 November 2017. The suitability report 
set out that Mr Js objectives were to have an income of £2,000 pm in retirement, to retire 
early at age 58/60, to provide benefits to Mr Js daughter in the event of his unexpected 
death, and to have flexibility and control in the way his benefits are paid. It was also noted 
that Mr J had serious concerns regarding the schemes financial stability and no longer 
wished to have his benefits under the schemes control.
Hugh James recommended that Mr J should transfer his BSPS pension to a PPP with 
Prudential. The reasons for the recommendation were that the pension would provide tax-
free death benefits until age 75, have a wide range of investment funds and provide growth 
over the long term, and would also provide flexibility to manage the funds depending on Mr 
Js personal circumstances. The report noted that the critical yields were high, but Hugh 
James considered them to be achievable.
The ongoing charge, including adviser fees, was 1.5%, with an additional one-off charge of 
1% of the transfer value charged by Hugh James for transfer advice.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service in September 2022, saying that the advice meant 
he had lost valuable guarantees and was paying more in investment charges than he would 
have previously. 
Having considered the complaint, our investigator thought that it should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
The advice was given during a time of uncertainty, but having reached out for advice, 
Mr J was more likely than not to have been reliant upon the advice given.
The regulators guidance, when considering a transfer of defined benefits, was that it 
should be presumed to be unsuitable unless it could be clearly demonstrated that it 
was in an individuals best interests.
The advice had been after the regulator had given instructions in final guidance 
FG17/9 as to how businesses could calculate future discount rates for complaints 
about transfers which were being upheld. Prior to that, this service was publishing 
information with which businesses could calculate future discount rates. Whilst businesses werent required to use these when giving advice, they 
nevertheless provided a useful guide as to the kinds of returns deemed feasible at 
the time of the advice.
The critical yield to match the scheme benefits at age 58 was 7.27% and to match 
them at age 65 it was 6.24%. The discount rate for 17 years to retirement was 4.4% 
and, taking into account Mr Js attitude to risk, along with the regulators low, mid and 
high band growth projections of 2%, 5% and 8% respectively, it was unlikely that the 
scheme benefits could be bettered through transferring. The critical yields were 
unlikely to be achievable.
Mr J didnt need to transfer to be able to retire early. He could have done so with the 
scheme, which, given the critical yields, had the best chance of providing the highest 
income.
Mr J may have found the prospect of flexibility appealing, as many perhaps would, 
but given the choice between a higher guaranteed income and flexibility, the former 
would have been better for Mr J.
Mr Js defined contribution accrual could have been used to address any flexibility 
requirement, or perceived funding gap between early retirement and the state 
pension age.
In terms of death benefits, the PPP would have paid a lump sum, but Mr J also had 
death in service benefits of four times his salary. His family would also have received 
the benefit of his defined contribution plan. Further, the primary purpose of the 
retirement benefits was to provide an income to Mr J rather than death benefits for 
his family.
Mr J may have had concerns about the prospects for the BSPS, but these concerns 
should have been managed and addressed by Hugh James.
The investigator recommended that Hugh James undertake a loss calculation in accordance
with the regulators guidance (FG 17/9) for such complaints  and on the basis that Mr J
would have opted to join the BSPS 2.
But the investigator also noted the regulators consultation on a revised methodology and 
enquired of Mr J as to whether, if the complaint was upheld, his preference would be to have 
a loss calculation undertaken on the existing basis, or to await the new methodology for 
defined benefit transfer redress calculations.
He said that any redress should in the first instance be paid to Mr Js pension plan, but if this 
wasnt possible, it should be paid directly to Mr J, with a notional deduction for the (assumed 
basic rate) income tax he would have paid on the pension benefits.
The investigator then wrote to both parties to confirm that the FCA had developed a BSPS-
specific redress calculator to calculate redress for cases which were included in the BSPS 
consumer redress scheme. But, he said, the FCA was also encouraging businesses to use 
the calculator for non-scheme cases.
The investigator further said that, when issuing my decision, I may require Hugh James to 
use the FCAs BSPS-specific calculator to determine any redress due to Mr J.The investigator said that, if either party didnt think it was appropriate to use the BSPS-
specific redress calculator in the circumstances of Mr Js complaint, they should let him
know by 5 June 2023.
Mr J confirmed that he was happy with this. Hugh Jamess representative then said that 
Hugh James had arranged for the calculation to be undertaken in accordance with the 
updated guidance and using the BSPS-specific calculator. It set out that this had produced a 
no loss position for Mr J.
Mr J said, however, that he would like an ombudsman to consider the case.
Hugh Jamess representative queried the need for the matter to be considered by an 
ombudsman, suggesting that it should be dismissed, but if it was referred for review, it 
wished to make the following submissions in summary:
The available evidence didnt support the position that Mr J would have done 
whatever Hugh James recommended.
The evidence relating to the critical yield if tax free cash was taken at age 58 
(5.79%), being only slightly higher than the regulators mid band growth rate of 5%, 
didnt support the position that Mr J was likely to receive benefits of a substantially 
lower overall value.
Given that the regulators mid band growth rate was 5% pa, its use of this within the 
cash flow modelling didnt seem inappropriate.
The flexibility offered by the PPP would allow Mr J to change his income levels 
between early retirement and the state pension age.
The BSPS would have provided Mr J with a maximum income of £15,279 pa at age 
58 if he took no tax free cash. The Tata scheme would need to achieve returns of 
5.5% pa to provide the additional £9,000 pa which Mr J said he required in 
retirement. But the investigator wasnt persuaded that this level of growth was 
achievable.
Mr Js personal circumstances supported the rationale for the increased lump sum 
benefits from the PPP for his daughter. If Mr J had needed to rely on his defined 
contribution plan between age 58 and 65, this would have reduced any lump sum 
which would be payable from this source, and post retirement he wouldnt have been 
entitled to the death in service benefits.
The representative further said that, if the matter was referred to an ombudsman and upheld, 
it would simply be replicating the same loss calculation which had already determined that 
Mr J hadnt incurred a loss through transferring.
The investigator acknowledged the representatives submissions, but confirmed that, as Mr J 
had requested that the matter be referred to an ombudsman, it would duly be referred for 
that consideration.More recently, the investigator invited Hugh James to recalculate on the basis of the BSPS- 
specific calculator, and to do so (and submit the results to this service) by 24 November 
2023. The investigator suggested that they would then engage with Mr J to try to resolve the 
matter without the need for an ombudsmans decision.
But as no further calculation has yet been forthcoming from Hugh James or its 
representative, the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the comments from both parties in response to the investigators assessment. In 
particular, I understand the point made by Hughes Jamess representative about the loss 
calculation has already undertaken, but Mr J has expressed his preference to have the 
investigators findings reviewed by an ombudsman, which is open to either party. I also 
acknowledge that a previous calculation may have determined a no loss position for Mr J, 
and that this may well also be the case with a revised calculation.
As Hugh James has offered to undertake the redress calculation, Ill keep my commentary 
on the matter of suitability relatively brief. 
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Hugh James's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 deal with the obligations when giving a personal recommendation 
and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 specifically relate to a defined 
benefit pension transfer.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Hugh James 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Js best interests.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.The TVAS report which Hugh James was required to carry out by the regulator said 
that the critical yield - how much Mr Js pension fund would need to grow by each 
year in order to provide the same benefits as his defined benefit scheme  was 
5.79% to match the post-tax free cash pension hed have been entitled to under the 
scheme at age 58. Hugh Jamess representative has said that this was only slightly 
higher than the regulators mid band growth rate, and lower than the higher rate. But I 
dont think the latter would be relevant here given Mr Js balanced attitude to risk. 
As for the critical yield being only slightly higher than the mid band growth rate, the 
critical yield was the return needed to simply match the scheme benefits. For them to 
be bettered, it would need to be higher still. And the fact in any case remains that the 
critical yield was higher than both the mid band growth rate and the discount rate to 
that same age. And so I think the conclusion that the benefits produced by the PPP 
were more likely than not to be lower than those provided by the scheme is fair and 
reasonable. 
Early retirement may well have been appealing to Mr J, as it might reasonably be 
appealing to a great many people, but he had no clear or pressing plans to do so, 
which I think is understandable for a 40 year old. Mr Js circumstances may in any 
case have changed significantly between then and retirement. And if flexibility was 
required in terms of the funding gap between early retirement and the state pension 
age, Mr J would have accrued around 18 years defined contributions by age 58 (or 
20 by age 60), which he wouldnt have needed to take as an annuity  he could have 
accessed as much or as little of this as he required  flexibly - including tax free cash, 
until he needed to begin accessing his BSPS benefits.
In terms of the alternative lump sum benefits a transfer offered to his family, the 
priority here was to advise Mr J about what was best for his retirement. And the 
existing scheme offered death benefits, by way of a spouses (and dependants) 
pension, that could have been valuable to his family in the event of his death.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different. As well as being dependent on investment performance, it would have also 
been reduced by any income Mr J drew in his lifetime. And so it may not have 
provided the legacy that Mr J may have thought it would. Further, Mr and Mrs J had 
no clearly identifiable need for the lump sum benefits  they owned their home 
outright and their daughter was envisaged to be financially independent by the time 
Mr J retired.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer justified the 
likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr J. And ultimately Hugh James shouldnt 
have encouraged Mr J to prioritise the potential for alternative death benefits through 
a personal pension over his security in retirement. 
Mr J may have held concerns about the BSSP the prospect of entering the PPF. But 
it was Hugh Jamess role to objectively address those concerns. At the time of the 
advice, all signs pointed toward the BSPS 2 being established. But even if not, the 
PPF still provided Mr J with guaranteed income and the option of accessing tax-free 
cash. Mr J was unlikely to improve on his scheme benefits by transferring. So, 
entering the PPF was not as concerning as he might have thought, and I dont think 
any concerns he held about this meant that transferring was in his best interest.Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons as to why it was clearly in Mr Js best interest to 
relinquish his defined benefits and transfer them to a PPP. And I also havent seen anything 
to persuade me that Mr J would have insisted on transferring, against advice to remain in the 
defined benefit scheme. 
So, as with the investigator, Im upholding the complaint as I think the advice Mr J received 
from Hugh James was unsuitable.
Putting things right
As set out in the investigators further comments relating to the BSPS-specific redress 
calculator, I consider that it would be appropriate to use that calculator here, given the 
BSPS-specific circumstances.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr J, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr J would more 
likely than not have remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the 
BSPS 2 if suitable advice had been given.
Hugh James Solicitors, trading as Hugh James Independent Financial Advisers, must 
therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating redress for non-
compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 and set out in the 
regulators handbook in DISP App 4:
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter.
Hugh James Solicitors, trading as Hugh James Independent Financial Advisers, should use 
the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A copy of the BSPS 
calculator output should be sent to Mr J and our service upon completion of the calculation.
Mr J hasnt yet retired, and cannot do so for many years. So compensation should be based 
on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's 
guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Js
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and
set out in DISP App 4, Hugh James Solicitors, trading as Hugh James Independent Financial 
Advisers, should:
calculate and offer Mr J redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr J before starting the redress calculation that:
- its redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line with the 
cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment
their defined contribution pensionoffer to calculate how much of any redress Mr J receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr J accepts the offer of Hugh James Solicitors, trading as Hugh James 
Independent Financial Advisers, to calculate how much of its redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr J for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of its redress augmented,
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Js end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr J as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in
line with DISP App 4, businesses may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension.
Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have
been taxed according to Mr Js likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.
So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require Hugh James Solicitors, trading as Hugh James 
Independent Financial Advisers, to pay Mr J the compensation amount as set out above, up 
to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I would also 
recommend that Hugh James Solicitors, trading as Hugh James Independent Financial 
Advisers, pays Mr J the balance.
If Mr J accepts this final decision, the award will be binding on Hugh James Solicitors, 
trading as Hugh James Independent Financial Advisers.
My recommendation wouldnt be binding on Hugh James Solicitors, trading as Hugh James 
Independent Financial Advisers. Further, its unlikely that Mr J could accept my decision and 
go to court to ask for the balance. Mr J may want to consider getting independent legal 
advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Hugh James Solicitors, trading as 
Hugh James Independent Financial Advisers, to undertake the above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman