DRN-4047441
The complaint
Mr S complains about how esure Insurance Limited and its agents handled his claim for 
subsidence on his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had home insurance with esure. In June 2020 he made a claim after noticing cracks in 
the window of the extension. esure accepted the claim and sent a contractor out to 
determine the cause. The contractor dug bore holes from near where the subsidence was 
occurring and took soil samples from this area. However the samples from the first visit were 
lost, so a second visit was arranged. Samples were taken again and this time, tests came 
back to confirm that roots from nearby vegetation were present in the samples, so it said the 
vegetation should be removed. 
However Mr S was unhappy with how the testing was carried out. He said it was unclear why 
the first sample was lost and he had witnessed the second contractor taking a sample of soil 
close to the offending trees. He said he thought this is what was tested in order to falsely 
prove the trees were the cause of the subsidence. He made a complaint and esure initially 
offered £50 compensation to make up for the poor service, particularly in relation to losing 
the first soil sample. This was later increased to £75 due to issues faced when raising the 
complaint. 
After this, esure decided that some underpinning of the extension was required in order to 
rectify the problem. This was carried out by Mr S own contractors and paid for by esure, as 
well as repairs to the damaged part of the property. It was completed around the end of 
2022.
Towards the end of the claim esure noted that the £1,000 subsidence excess hadnt been 
paid, so said it would deduct this amount from the final claim payment. Mr S wasnt happy 
with this. He said that due to the issues he had experienced at the start of the claim, he 
shouldnt be charged an excess. 
He made a complaint and esure agreed to reduce the excess to £500. However Mr S didnt 
think this was fair as he didnt think he should pay any excess as he said the claim has 
caused him and his wife significant distress, particularly due to the actions of esures 
contractors. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He 
said that as esure had addressed his concerns about the actions of its contractor in its final 
response in 2020, and this hadnt been brought to this service in the required time, he 
couldnt consider this element. And he thought esure had made a generous offer by reducing 
the excess to £500 based on its actions during the remainder of the claim.
Mr S didnt agree, he asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to make clear what I am able to consider as part of this complaint. This service 
cannot consider every complaint thats referred to us. Thats because were bound by the 
rules laid down by Parliament and published by the Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA).. 
These rules are known as the DISP rules. 
DISP 2.8.2R(1) says that this service is unable to consider a complaint if its been referred to 
us more than six months after the final response letter was sent, unless the business gives 
its consent. Here I can see that esure issued a final response letter in answer to the 
concerns Mr S raised around the first two visits from its contractor, the loss of the soil 
sample and how the second sample was obtained. This was issued on 26 November 2020 
and it included the following wording:
You have the right to refer your complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, free of 
charge but you must do so within six months of the date of this letter. If you do not refer your 
complaint in time, the Ombudsman will not have our permission to consider your complaint 
and so will only be able to do so in very limited circumstances. For example, if the 
Ombudsman believes that the delay was as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Mr S brought his complaint to this service on 29 October 2022, more than six months after 
the final response was issued. And as esure hasnt given its consent and Ive seen no 
reason why the complaint couldnt have been brought sooner, this service is unable to 
consider these issues as part of this complaint.
Instead Ive considered the progress of the claim after this initial final response was issued, 
to decide if esures offer to reduce Mr S excess to £500 was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ive looked at the correspondence and notes from the claim from November 2020 up until 
the end of 2022. I can see that esure were proactive and attentive throughout. It 
communicated promptly and clearly with Mr S and went out of its way to accommodate his 
requests and to ensure a fair settlement at each stage. On some occasions offering more 
than the policy covers. 
I note Mr S has provided a lot of detail about why he thinks esure have provided a poor 
service and the impact the claim has had on himself and his wife. However a lot of this 
comment relates to matters addressed in the complaint that is out of our jurisdiction, so I am 
unable to comment on this. And while I dont doubt that the claim has been a difficult and 
stressful time for Mr S and his wife, making an insurance claim, particularly for subsidence, 
will always be a stressful time. However I can only direct esure to take action where it has 
caused a claim to be more distressing or inconvenient than it would have been anyway. And 
here, I dont agree that esure has caused any further distress or inconvenience through its 
actions.
Based on this, I think its offer of reducing the excess to £500 is fair and reasonable and 
more than I would have recommended if it hadnt offered any reduction at all. I therefore 
wont require it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr S complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman