DRN-2892036
The complaint
Mr D has complained about his motor insurer Calpe Insurance Company Limited because 
when a third-party made a claim against him, it incurred costs on his behalf before settling 
the claim without taking those costs into account. Calpe then billed Mr D for those costs 
because his policy contains a £3,000 excess.
What happened
In 2017 Mr D was dropping a friend off at a local station. An incident occurred with a cyclist 
and the cyclist claimed that the passenger door had been opened into his path. Mr Ds 
passenger said the cyclist had ridden into him once he was out of the car. Calpe considered 
the claim, it appointed a loss adjuster and examined Mr Ds car. This cost £174, which Mr D 
was asked to, and did pay. Calpe felt there was no evidence of a road traffic accident having 
occurred, it invited the third-party to drop their claim.  
Later the third-party presented medical evidence, asked for several thousand pounds in 
settlement from Calpe and instructed solicitors. Calpe appointed solicitors in return and 
began defending the claim. Calpe ultimately decided to defend the claim on the basis of it 
being fraudulently dishonest. The third-party solicitor said its client was adamant the claim 
was genuine but had been persuaded to cease action if Calpe didnt seek to obtain costs 
from them. Calpes solicitor advised it of the option to end the claim but said they felt the 
prospects for a successful outcome of any court claim were good. Calpe decided it was best 
for the court action to cease. It asked its solicitor for a bill  which came to £1,369  and 
because of Mr Ds excess, asked him to pay this sum.
Mr D was upset by this. He said he hadnt been warned about solicitors charges or agreed 
to pay them. Calpe said this amount was due by him because, under the policy, he was 
liable for the first £3,000 of costs for any claim. Mr D felt this charge against him was 
particularly unfair because, in his view, the allegation made against him had been entirely 
false  so it felt wrong to him that he was left bearing any costs.
Our investigator initially sympathised with Mr Ds position, and felt Calpe should waive all its 
costs. But, when Calpe objected, she revised her position. She felt Mr D would always have 
had to pay legal costs, even if he hadnt had the benefit of insurance. But she felt Calpe 
would always have incurred charges to assess the claim, whether or not it had been 
accepted. So she felt Calpe could charge the solicitors fees to Mr D under the excess term 
of the policy, but that it couldnt include the £174 incurred in 2017 for assessing the claim. 
She said that figure should be waived, but that Mr D should pay Calpe £1,369.
Mr D said hed already paid the £174 to Calpe. He said if he had needed to defend this claim 
himself he would have ensured this went before a court where legal costs and compensation 
for him could have been awarded against the claimant. He said he had no way of being able 
to pay Calpe. Mr D explained the stress hed been under because of all this; not least as 
Calpe had been threatening to cancel his policy and instruct debt collectors if he didnt pay it. 
During our process our investigator had gained an agreement from Calpe to cease debt 
collection activity until the matter had been decided. Calpe also didnt cancel Mr Ds policy, 
although I understand it did opt, in December 2020, to not renew it. Our investigator told 
Mr D hed have to make a separate complaint about the policy renewal.
Mr Ds complaint was passed to me to consider. I thought Calpe had been wrong on this 
occasion, to seek payment from Mr D, and that he suffered upset as a result of this. So 
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I intended to make it reimburse and waive the 
charges, as well as pay Mr D compensation. I also explained I would deal with the policy 
renewal issue, and that my view on that was that Calpe was always able to decide whether 
or not to offer renewal. 
Mr D accepted my findings. Calpe said it disagreed with them  it feels its wrong for me to 
decide how any court action might have progressed. It said court claims such as this are 
very unpredictable, theres no way it could have known what the outcome would be. Calpe 
maintained that the settlement achieved was the best for everyone, its unreasonable to think 
it should have risked that by declining the settlement and progressing with proceedings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I said provisionally:
the policy
Mr Ds policy with Calpe does require him to pay the first £3,000 of any claim. And when this 
claim was first intimated to Calpe in 2017, Calpe did remind Mr D of that fact. And the policy 
is clear that the excess applies even if the policyholder is found not at fault, and its in 
respect of any claim costs incurred by it. And when in 2017 Calpe asked Mr D to pay it £174 
to cover the initial claim costs it had incurred, he did so without objection.
I think the fact of the excess and what it meant for Mr D had probably been lost on Mr D by 
the time the claim resumed in 2018. And Calpe didnt remind him at that time. But even if it 
had, Calpe had a duty under the policy and the relevant law, to deal with the third-party 
claim. It taking better care to advise Mr D of his obligation under the policy to pay the excess 
wouldnt have changed that.
Calpe was entitled under the policy to deal with the claim on Mr Ds behalf, and in the way 
that it saw fit. It didnt have to consult with Mr D or seek his agreement to any action it chose 
to take. The decision on whether or not to settle the third-party claim and on what terms was 
always its to make. 
Im satisfied that, strictly speaking, the policy, which Mr D had agreed to, allowed Calpe to 
act as it did. However, this service always expects an insurer to use any rights it may have 
under the policy fairly, and deal with its policy holder in a reasonable manner. I think that 
here, that is where Calpe failed Mr D. 
treating Mr D fairly and reasonably 
From what Ive seen Calpes solicitor felt there was a good prospect for defending any claim 
made by the third-party. But the third-party wouldnt agree to withdraw its claim unless Calpe 
agreed to forego seeking reimbursement of its outlay from the third-party. Despite the good 
prospects for success, Calpe decided the best thing to do was to end matters without 
progressing to court. I accept that pursuing a court claim, even one with a good prospect for 
success, takes time and money. And that is something an insurer will always want to limit the possibility of. But here this was a win/win situation for Calpe  because Calpe knew its 
costs, if not covered by the third-party, would be covered by Mr D as part of his excess. 
Calpe had nothing to lose by agreeing to settle the claim in this manner. The only person 
who stood to lose was Mr D. 
In contrast, if Calpe had been prepared to take on the extra risk of time and money pursuing 
the court claim, it seems the chances are good that action would have ended in Calpe and 
Mr Ds favour. And I note it had been intending to defend the action on the basis of 
fraudulent dishonesty  which means the court could make an award against the claimant for 
Calpes costs. That would, of course, only happen if the defence was successful. But given 
the balance of the evidence and the solicitors advice, I think that its most likely thats what 
would have happened. 
Further, this service has a long-standing approach in respect of claim assessment costs. We 
dont find it fair for an insurer to pass these type of costs (the £174 Mr D paid to Calpe early 
in the claim) on to their policyholder. Thats regardless of whether or not they can be 
recovered from the other side, or what the policy allows. 
In short, I dont think it was fair for Calpe to act in such a way as to protect itself from further 
risk whilst knowingly exposing Mr D to costs which could likely have been avoided. I think 
Calpe should reimburse the £174 Mr D paid to it previously (with interest* from the date of 
payment) and waive its demand for him to pay it £1,369. If any charges have been added to 
that latter sum on account of it not having been paid before they should be waived too. 
Calpe should also provide a letter to Mr D which he can present to credit reference agencies 
in the event his credit record has been affected due to Calpe treating this as a debt  this 
should explain that there was no debt and Calpe had requested payment in error.
renewal
Mr D has said that Calpe opted not to renew his policy  it seems this was likely linked to the 
fact that he hadnt paid it the £1,369 which it felt he owed under the policy. Whilst Ive found 
above that Calpe acted unfairly by asking Mr D to pay this sum, I cant say it was unfair for it 
not to renew Mr Ds policy. Each policy year is a new contract and no insurer is bound to 
offer renewal each time the previous policy ends. Whether or not to offer Mr D further cover 
was always a commercial decision for Calpe to take.  
compensation
Its clear to me that Mr D has been very worried about all of this, including what he views as 
the false claim against him. Calpe isnt responsible for upset caused by the fact of the claim. 
But Im mindful that not only did it unfairly, in my view, ask Mr D to pay it over £1,000, it sent 
the matter to debt collection. I dont doubt this caused Mr D a lot of distress. I also note that 
Calpe threatened to cancel Mr Ds policy. Whilst it didnt do so, the policy continued until 
renewal, this clearly caused Mr D great concern. I think £500 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here.  
I understand Calpes concern that I cant know what would have happened in the course of 
any court claim. But it is part of my role to decide, based on the available to evidence, what 
I think is most likely to have happened. Calpes solicitor felt the evidence was strongly in its 
favour and was so persuasive that the defence was amended to one of fraudulent 
dishonesty. And he didnt advise Calpe to be careful about pursuing the matter as the 
prospects for success were unlikely. So I think its fair to say that its most likely any court 
action would have succeeded. In any event, I think Calpe has missed the point from my provisional decision  it has the 
right to choose how to proceed but in doing so it must treat its policyholder fairly. Even if 
Calpes business decision in spite of the solicitors advice, that withdrawal was the best 
option, was reasonable  it cant fairly do that whilst placing all of the associated costs that 
result from that decision at Mr Ds door. Thats because doing so limited, in fact negated, its 
outlay, whilst ensuring Mr D had to bear the cost.  
Whilst Ive considered Calpes objection to my provisional decision, it hasnt changed my 
mind about the fair and reasonable outcome for Mr Ds complaint. My provisional findings 
now form the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require Calpe to:
reimburse the £174 Mr D previously paid it, plus interest* from the date of payment until 
settlement is made.
waive the sum of £1,369 previously made against Mr D, along with any related charges.
provide a letter for Mr D to present to credit reference agencies as explained above.
pay Mr D £500 compensation.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to
the dates stated. If Calpe considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off
income tax from any interest due to Mr D, it should tell him how much its taken off. It should
also give Mr D a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman