DRN-3252340
The complaint
Mr H complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt give him clear enough information 
about a travel insurance policy to allow him to decide whether or not to renew his contract.
What happened
Mr H had an annual travel insurance policy which was due to renew in April 2020. In January 
2020, hed booked flights and accommodation for a trip he was due to take in June 2020.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic and 
on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
FCO) advised against all but essential travel abroad. UKI sent Mr H renewal information on 
26 March 2020, setting out the key terms of the new policy it proposed to offer him.
Mr H wanted some clarification about some of the information set out in UKIs Insurance 
Product Information Document (IPID) and the accompanying Important Information 
document before he decided whether or not to renew his policy. Thats because he felt the 
information about the travel delay cover was unclear and contradictory. So in early April 
2020, he called UKI to ask for further information and also for a copy of the policy terms. 
UKIs call handler couldnt answer Mr Hs query and so told Mr H that hed get a call back. 
UKI wrote to Mr H around 10 days later to let him know that due to operational challenges, it 
couldnt send him a copy of the policy terms, but it let him know they were available online. 
As Mr H didnt receive this letter though and as he hadnt received a call back, he called UKI 
again on 20 April 2020. The call handler explained how delay cover worked and what was 
and wasnt covered. As Mr H was unhappy with the clarity of the renewal paperwork and 
UKIs service failings, he complained. He also asked UKI to explain what it meant by an 
anticipated event in relation to events it didnt cover  particularly in the event of a second 
wave of Covid-19.
UKI told Mr H that in terms of Covid-19, it considered this would be an anticipated event if 
the FCDO was advising against travel to a policyholders destination at the point they 
booked a trip. As Mr H planned to book trips during 2020, he wanted UKI to provide a letter 
explaining what would and wouldnt be considered to be an anticipated event. UKI said it 
wouldnt be able to provide such a letter due to the evolving situation with Covid-19. It did 
acknowledge though that it hadnt arranged a call back for Mr H in early April 2020 and it felt 
the first call handler ought to have been able to explain the extent of delay cover. So it 
offered Mr H £50 compensation to recognise its error.
Mr H decided against renewing his policy with UKI and his policy expired on 26 April 2020. 
His flights were subsequently cancelled by the airline in May 2020 and so Mr H had to 
cancel his hotel booking too. He remained unhappy with the information hed been given by 
UKI and he didnt think itd complied with its obligations to treat its customers fairly. And he 
didnt think UKI should be selling a product which it was unable to define in any meaningful 
way. So he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She felt that the overall 
effect of the policy terms and conditions and the IPID clearly set out how travel delay cover 
worked. She didnt think UKI had been in a position to confirm whether it would cover a 
second wave of Covid-19, given the nature of the situation. She felt the policy was clear 
enough as to what UKI meant by anticipated events. And she felt the compensation UKI had 
offered Mr H was fair to reflect the distress hed been caused by its handling of his queries.
Mr H disagreed and Ive summarised his responses to our investigator. He felt UKI couldve 
looked into selling the policy in different ways. He didnt feel it was useful for UKI to be 
unable to confirm whether future holidays would be covered. He felt UKI could display a 
customer number or webpage in order to provide policyholders with guidance about cover 
before they decided to book a trip. He felt UKI was deliberately not providing information 
about the policy and he considered it had clearly said it might vary the policy terms midway. 
He considered UKI shouldve given more customer assurances. He still didnt think UKI had 
met its regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr H, I think UKI has treated him fairly and Ill 
explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr H that while Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to our service, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent 
us. In making my decision though, I havent commented on each and every point hes raised 
and nor do our rules require me to. Instead Ive focused on what I consider to be the key 
issues.
Its important I make clear our role. We are not the industry regulator and so we have no 
power to tell a financial business how it should operate or direct it to change its policies or 
procedures. We also have no power to fine or punish the businesses we cover. Our role is to 
investigate individual complaints brought by consumers against financial businesses we 
cover and to consider whether the business has done something wrong which has caused a 
consumer to lose out. This means then that I have no power to direct UKI to implement 
changes to its processes in terms of providing customer support and nor can I tell it to 
change the information it provides its customers. As such, my decision will centre on 
whether I think UKI gave Mr H clear information within its renewal documentation and during 
its calls with him.
I havent seen any persuasive evidence to suggest UKI recommended that Mr H should 
renew his policy or that it advised him to do so. This means it didnt need to check that the 
policy was suitable for him. But the regulators rules say that UKI needed to give Mr H 
enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy to allow him to make an 
informed choice about whether or not to take up the renewal. So Ive gone on to consider the 
paperwork and the information it gave Mr H to decide whether it met its obligations.
Travel Delay Cover
Mr H felt the information set out on the IPID relating to travel delay cover was unclear and 
contradictory. As the investigator explained, an IPID is intended to provide an at-a-glance 
summary of the policy cover. It doesnt form the full terms of the contract, which can be 
found in the policy terms and conditions.The IPID includes a section called What is Insured and sets out a table of the main policy 
benefits. This includes the following:
Delayed departure up to £200 for additional accommodation, travel and refreshment costs, 
and up to £500 for unused accommodation and travel expenses.
The IPID also includes a section called What is not Insured and this sets out a table of the 
main restrictions on cover. This includes the following:
Any claim for compensation as a result of a travel delay.
Ive then turned to look at the delayed departure section of the policy which sets out full 
travel delay cover. A copy of the policy was available online. The policy says:
We will pay up to £200 for each insured person for additional accommodation, travel
and refreshment costs if you have checked in and your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train
is delayed by more than 12 hours beyond the time shown on your travel itinerary.
We will also pay up to £500 for each insured person for any unused accommodation and
travel expenses (including any excursions up to £150) if you are late arriving at your
destination as a result of a delay of more than 12 hours beyond the time shown on your
travel itinerary.
In my view, the travel delay benefits set out in the IPID are clearly in line with and reflective 
of the travel delay benefits set out in the policy terms and conditions. So I think the overall 
policy paperwork makes the extent of travel delay cover sufficiently clear.
Its unfortunate that UKIs first call handler wasnt able to explain to Mr H how the travel 
delay cover operated. However, another call handler later clarified that Mr H would be 
entitled to the travel delay benefits listed in the IPID. The compensation exclusion related to 
potential indirect, consequential losses caused by a delay  such as the loss of wages. 
Indirect losses are specifically excluded from cover in the general exclusions section of the 
policy. 
I think then that the totality of the information UKI provided to Mr H was sufficiently clear as 
to how the travel delay benefit worked and what the main features, benefits and restrictions 
of it were. I dont think it misled Mr H in any way.
Anticipated events
The Important Information document UKI sent to Mr H set out important changes which 
would apply to the new policy terms if he opted to renew in April 2020. This included that 
cover would be excluded for anticipated events under several sections of the policy. The 
policy terms define an anticipated event as: 
Any event or occurrence that affects your trip, which you knew would happen or could
reasonably have expected to happen, and were aware of:
 at the date when your insurance started or renewed, or
 the date when you booked your trip, whichever is later.
I appreciate Mr H wouldve liked confirmation from UKI as to what it would consider to be 
anticipated events before he booked future trips. I think though that UKI gave Mr H a 
reasonable explanation, based on the information it had available at that point in time, about 
how it would treat Covid-19 claims. It broadly said that if the FCDO wasnt advising against travel to a policyholders destination because of Covid-19 when a holiday was booked, any 
resulting change in advice and subsequent cancellation wouldnt be considered to be an 
anticipated event. I think this was a fair response and in line with the policy terms, which did 
cover changes to FCDO advice if a holiday was cancelled or cut short in otherwise covered 
circumstances.
In my view, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to expect UKI to have provided any further 
definitive guarantees or confirmation about what it would consider to be an anticipated event 
at that time. I say that because in April 2020, the pandemic was in its early stages; the 
situation was rapidly changing and no-one could say with any certainty how long restrictions 
on travel would last. Neither could anyone predict future waves of the virus. And what UKI 
considered to be an anticipated event was likely to change over the course of the pandemic. 
Page 10 of the policy sets out ways that policyholders can contact UKI. It provides a number 
for policyholders to call before travel if they want to discuss anything about the way the 
insurance works. So I think Mr H wouldve had an option to call UKI during the life of the 
policy had he chosen to renew, at the time of any future trip bookings, to check whether 
Covid-19 would be treated as an anticipated event at that point.
Id add too that most, if not all, travel insurance policies, exclude cover for anticipated events 
or events which a consumer is aware might reasonably foreseeably lead to a claim at the 
point insurance is bought or a holiday is booked. Such events arent generally specified or 
listed with policy booklets.
Overall then, I think that UKI gave Mr H enough clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the way the policy worked to allow him to make an informed choice about whether to 
renew it. It was Mr Hs choice not to take up renewal, which meant that he hadnt paid for 
insurance cover at the point his holiday was cancelled. While this unfortunately means Mr H 
has been left out of pocket, I cant fairly direct UKI to pay a claim for his lost hotel cost when 
no policy was in place.
Customer service
UKI acknowledges that it didnt handle Mr Hs queries as well as it couldve done. It didnt 
arrange a call back when it said it would and it felt the first call handler ought to have been 
able to explain how travel delay cover worked. So it sent Mr H a cheque for £50. In the 
circumstances, I think this is fair and reasonable compensation for the impact I think these 
service failings are likely to have had on Mr H. I say that because ultimately, he was able to 
speak with UKI before renewal was due and I dont think he suffered any financial loss as a 
result of the delay in confirming the extent of travel delay cover. So I dont think UKI needs to 
pay Mr H anything more.
I note from UKIs file though that it appears Mr H returned its compensatory cheque because 
he thought it mightve been sent to him in error. If UKI hasnt since reissued the cheque or 
paid Mr Hs compensation via bank transfer, it should now arrange to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Lisa BarhamOmbudsman