DRN-2342851
The complaint
 Mr H complains that Ageas Insurance Limited turned down a curtailment claim he made on 
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
 In February 2020, Mr H arranged an annual travel insurance policy through his broker. He 
also booked a holiday abroad. He was due to depart on 14 March 2020 and come back to 
the UK on 28 March 2020. Mr H booked separate flights and accommodation.
Mr H travelled abroad as planned on 14 March 2020. However, on 16 March 2020, the 
country Mr H was travelling in declared a state of emergency as a result of the Covid-19 
pandemic. It declared that it would be closing its borders on 18 March 2020. Mr H also said 
he received cancellation information from some of his accommodation providers. 
So Mr H decided to curtail his trip and return to the UK. He booked new flights via another 
country, together with overnight accommodation to stay in while he waited for the second leg 
of his flight. He took the first leg of his new flight on 17 March and the second on 18 March 
2020. Mr H was able to recover many of his pre-booked accommodation costs from his 
providers and his airline refunded the cost of his original return flight. 
But Mr H was still left out of pocket for some costs. So he made a claim on his travel 
insurance policy for his pre-booked accommodation abroad from 18- 20 March 2020; his 
new return flight costs and the cost of his stopover stay during his return journey. 
Ageas turned down the claim. Ultimately, it said the policy terms and conditions didnt cover 
curtailment because of travel restrictions placed on policyholders by the government of a 
country they were staying in. It also said Mr H had arranged to curtail his trip before the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) had changed its own guidance to advise against all 
but essential travel on 17 March 2020.
Mr H wasnt happy with Ageas decision. He said the policy covered curtailment if 
accommodation became uninhabitable or inaccessible while a policyholder was away. So he 
felt his claim should be considered under this heading, given the accommodation providers 
had cancelled his pre-booked accommodation. He also felt that as hed actually travelled 
back to the UK on 17 and 18 March, his curtailment should be dated from 17 March 2020. 
He asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Hs complaint should be partly upheld. The curtailment section of 
the policy covered claims where the FCO had given a warning against travel. The 
investigator accepted Mr H had arranged to cut short his trip the day before the FCO 
guidance changed. So he accepted that strictly, the claim wasnt covered. But the FCO 
guidance changed only one day later and Mr H wouldve been covered if hed waited one 
more day before inevitably needing to curtail the trip. And the investigator didnt think Ageas 
position had been prejudiced by Mr Hs actions, as the costs he was claiming for werent 
covered by his airline or accommodation provider anyway. So he recommended that Ageas 
should settle the cost of Mr Hs pre-booked accommodation costs between 17 March and 28 
March 2020. 
But the investigator didnt think the new flight and stopover hotel costs Mr H had paid out to 
return home early were covered by the policy. Thats because it only covered a 
policyholders pre-booked travel and accommodation costs. And Mr Hs airline had already 
refunded him for his original return flight. He explained that Mr H wouldve always needed to 
pay for a flight to get back to the UK. So he didnt think Ageas needed to cover these costs.
Ageas accepted the investigators opinion.
Mr H didnt. He maintained that travel and accommodation expenses would be covered if 
accommodation became uninhabitable or inaccessible, so he felt the new flight should be 
covered. The country hed been in was in a state of emergency, so he thought itd been 
reasonable for him to make curtailment arrangements. He said that due to the situation, the 
airline had put up its prices, so the cost of his original flight and the new one werent 
comparable. Ageas had made some errors when it looked into his claim, which Mr H was 
concerned about.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that Ageas current offer to partly settle Mr Hs claim is fair. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And they 
mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive carefully considered the terms of Mr Hs 
policy and the circumstances of his claim in deciding whether Ageas acted fairly.
Was it fair for Ageas to turn down Mr Hs claim?
The cancellation and curtailment section of Mr Hs policy sets out the things that it does and 
doesnt cover. So Ive looked carefully at what insured events it covers to decide whether I 
think it was reasonable for Ageas to initially turn down Mr Hs claim. Ive summarised the 
insured events which are covered by this section of the policy:
- The death, illness or injury of a policyholder; their close relative; business colleague; 
their travelling companion or person they were staying with; or their traveling 
companions close relative;
- Complications of pregnancy;
- Being called to take part in a jury; as a court witness or being placed into quarantine;
- Being required for unexpected and unavoidable duty with the emergency services;
- Redundancy of a policyholder; their parent or guardian, travelling companion or 
person they were due to stay with;
- The Police requiring a policyholders presence due to fire, theft or burglary of their 
home or car while a policyholder is away;
- A policyholders pre-booked accommodation being uninhabitable or inaccessible 
while theyre away.
- A warning by the FCO that a country or countries you had intended to travel to 
should be avoided or it has advised against travel.- Additional reasonable costs for a policyholder to get home due to the death, serious 
injury or illness of their relative, business colleague or travelling companion, providing 
it is necessary.
Theres no dispute that on 16 March 2020, the country Mr H had travelled to declared a state 
of emergency and that it planned to close its borders. So I can entirely understand why Mr H 
immediately began preparations to return to the UK, as it was clear that he wouldnt be able 
to continue his trip as hed planned.
But the FCO didnt advise against all but essential travel until 17 March 2020  a day later. I 
accept Mr H didnt begin his return journey until 17 March 2020, but hed decided to cut short 
his trip and arranged to do so before the change in FCO guidance. So on a strict 
interpretation of the policy terms, I dont think it was unreasonable for Ageas to conclude that 
M Hs claim wasnt covered.
But I can depart from a strict interpretation of the insurance contract if I consider it produces 
an unfair result. In this case, the FCO guidance did change on 17 March 2020, one day after 
Mr H arranged to curtail his holiday. This means he wouldve needed to cut short his holiday 
plans on this date regardless and arrange to return to the UK. Mr H had accommodation 
booked up until 28 March 2020, when he was due to fly home. This means he wouldve lost 
out on 11 days of his holiday. And at this point, hed have been covered by the policy terms. 
So I think the fair and reasonable outcome here is for Ageas to pay Mr Hs pre-booked 
accommodation costs from 17 March 2020 until the end of his pre-booked trip, which he 
hasnt recovered from elsewhere (I understand Mr H has had some refunds) in line with the 
policy terms and together with interest.
Im pleased that Ageas agreed to pay this settlement.
Should Ageas cover Mr Hs flight and additional accommodation costs?
The cancellation and curtailment section of the policy says:
We will pay up to the amount on the schedule following an event giving rise to a claim under 
this insurance which happens within the period of insurance for any monies you have paid, 
or which you are contracted to pay, up to the final invoice cost of the trip. (Bold is my 
emphasis).
I appreciate Mr H feels strongly that his replacement return fight and stopover costs should 
be covered by the policy. I understand the cost of his return journey was substantially more 
than the original flight hed booked and Im sorry that hes been left out of pocket due to the 
unprecedented situation he found himself in.
Mr H also feels that the term relating to accommodation becoming inaccessible and 
inhabitable should apply to his claim and means that his additional costs ought to be paid. It 
seems that because his pre-booked accommodation was cancelled by the accommodation 
providers due to Covid-19, it was effectively inaccessible to him. Ageas has already agreed 
to pay the costs of Mr Hs pre-booked accommodation costs after 17 March 2020.
But I think the policy clearly sets out that the curtailment section of the policy only covers the 
final invoice costs a policyholder has already paid for their trip. It doesnt include cover for 
replacement flights or stopover accommodation for a policyholder to get home unless its 
due to illness, injury or death, which doesnt apply to Mr Hs situation. In this case, the 
layover accommodation costs Mr H is claiming for are part of the costs he incurred when he 
made early arrangements to return home, rather than costs which formed part of his final 
invoice. Mr H has already had a refund for his original flight from his airline. And as the investigator explained, Mr H would always have needed to get home whether his trip went as 
planned or he needed to curtail it. So hed always have had to pay for a return flight. Its very 
unfortunate that his replacement flight was substantially more expensive. But it wouldnt be 
fair for me to hold Ageas responsible for pricing decisions by airlines. 
Taking all of the above into account, I think it was fair and reasonable for Ageas to conclude 
that Mr Hs additional flight and accommodation costs werent covered by the policy terms.
Having considered all of the evidence, I dont think Ageas handled the claim as well as it 
couldve done. It sent Mr H a letter referring to a different holiday and I dont think it initially 
made it clear enough why itd turned down his claim. So I think it did make errors and I can 
understand why Mr H had concerns about the way his claim had been looked into. But I 
dont think these mistakes caused Mr H material distress or inconvenience which would lead 
me to think it was appropriate to make an award of compensation in this case.
Overall, I think Ageas has now offered to settle Mr Hs claim fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr Hs curtailment claim for his pre-booked 
accommodation costs, which he hasnt already been refunded for, in line with the policy 
terms and conditions from the date the FCO guidance changed on 17 March 2020. It must 
also add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of claim until the date of 
settlement.
If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr H a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman