DRN-2278570
The complaint
Mr Ks complained about mistakes made by Be Wiser Insurance Services Ltd (Be Wiser) 
which led to his motor insurance policy being cancelled.
What happened
Mr K says he searched for motor insurance using a comparison website.  Following that, he 
was cold-called by Be Wiser.  After speaking to Be Wiser, Mr K decided to buy motor 
insurance from them for him and his wife.
After hed bought the policy, Be Wiser contacted Mr K.  They said the underwriter had asked 
for a number of documents to validate the information Mr K had given Be Wiser when he 
bought his policy.  Mr K sent Be Wiser what theyd asked for.
But Be Wiser failed to pass the information onto the underwriter.  And  as theyd not 
received what theyd asked for  the underwriter instructed Be Wiser to write to Mr K and 
warn him that theyd cancel his policy if he didnt provide the information within the following 
seven days.  Be Wiser wrote to Mr K, but had no reply to that letter.  So Mr Ks policy was 
cancelled.  Be Wiser emailed him to tell him this had happened
Mr K was on holiday abroad when he got Be Wisers email.  So that made it difficult for him 
to organise alternative cover.  And the worry of what had happened impacted on his and his 
wifes enjoyment of their holiday.
Mr K complained to Be Wiser.  Be Wiser investigated his complaint.  They concluded that 
theyd made an administrative error when they sent Mr K the cancellation warning letter 
because hed already sent them everything theyd asked for. 
When cancelling the policy Be Wiser processed a refund of £91.06 for the unused period of 
insurance.  Later, to compensate Mr K, they waived all their charges in relation to the policy 
 which came to £162.69.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with this outcome and brought his complaint to us.  He told us that Be 
Wiser had never told him hed have to provide a lot of paperwork.  And he thought Be Wiser 
should compensate him for the trouble and stress the mistake had caused him and his wife 
during their holiday.
Our investigator considered the evidence.  He said that Be Wiser couldnt be held 
responsible for the information requests that had been made as these had come from the 
underwriter.  And he noted that Be Wiser had accepted theyd made an error which had led 
to the policy being cancelled.
But he didnt think that Mr K had been compensated for the trouble and upset the 
cancellation had caused him.  He thought Be Wiser should pay Mr K £150 compensation for 
this  in addition to the refund theyd already made.
Be Wiser didnt agree with the investigators view.  They thought refunding Mr K their 
charges was enough to compensate him.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ks policy was cancelled because Be Wiser made a mistake.  
What Ive been asked to decide is the right level of redress for that error.
I dont agree with Be Wiser that the £162.69 refund they gave Mr K should be viewed as 
compensation.  It was a charge applied by Be Wiser for its services in the provision of the 
insurance policy. And  because Be Wiser made a mistake  Mr K didnt get what hed paid 
for.  
So repaying Mr K that amount is simply putting him back in the position he was.  It doesnt 
recognise that Mr K was worried when he found out he didnt have insurance.  Nor does it 
recognise that, because he was abroad, it was more difficult to sort the problem out quickly 
and easily.
Putting things right
I think the worry and upset Be Wisers mistake caused Mr K should be reflected by a 
payment of compensation.  And I agree with our investigator that the right level of 
compensation to reflect the impact Be Wisers error had on Mr K is £150.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im upholding Mr Ks complaint about Be Wiser Insurance 
Services Limited and directing them to pay him £150 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman