DRN-3077064
The complaint
Mr G says there were delays in putting new preferential interest rate products in place for his 
two buy-to-let mortgages with The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland which led 
to them moving to the standard variable rate (SVR). Hes also unhappy that the end date of 
the preferential rates is less than two years from when the transfers went through.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Ireland has already accepted that these transactions werent handled well and so all 
Im deciding is what should be done to put things right.
Bank of Ireland originally offered to refund £850 to Mr G, which it said was the difference 
between the new preferential rates and the SVR for the period of the delay (6 May until 
15 July 2020. It said it would pay that sum directly to Mr G. When the case came to us Bank 
of Ireland looked at things again and said its calculation was wrong, and it was £1,380.21 
that was due; however it wanted to keep that amount to use it to reduce some arrears on 
one of Mr Gs other mortgage accounts.
Mr G had said he wanted the difference paid to him, the products to run for the full 24 
months, and £8,000 compensation for the distress caused to him. Later he said he wanted 
the mortgages to be written off.
Following a recent enquiry made by our investigator on my behalf Bank of Ireland has 
confirmed that the refund will be paid directly to Mr G, rather than it being applied to the 
arrears on one of his other mortgage accounts.
Mr G applied for these preferential rates on 15 April 2020 and was told they would normally 
take 15 working days to be put in force  which is 6 May. Unfortunately the new rates didnt 
take effect until 15 July. Ive carefully considered the calculations that have been provided by 
Bank of Ireland and Im satisfied those represent the loss to Mr G of the delay (between 
6 May and 15 July) in putting the new rates into effect. That gives a sum of £1,380.21 and 
Im satisfied that fairly represents the loss to Mr G in the delay.
From there I turn to Mr Gs argument that hes not getting a full 24 months on the fixed rates. 
The rate Mr G applied for is a fixed rate until 31 May 2022  it was never a fixed rate for 
24 monthly payments. It didnt matter whether the rate took effect in March 2020 or 
September 2020 (for example), the fixed rate would always run until 31 May 2022.
Some lenders offer their fixed rates for a set time period (such as 24 months), others offer 
their fixed rates until a set date in time (such as until 31 May 2022). Neither is right or wrong, 
and both are completely acceptable ways to set up a fixed rate, provided the documentation 
sets out the details clearly. Its clear from the mortgage offer in this case that the fixed rate 
would end on a set date regardless of when it started and Mr G accepted that offer.
That said, Mr G hasnt just benefited from the rate since 16 July as the offer Ive set out 
above is worked out on the basis the rate started on 6 May as it should. So even though on 
paper it looks like Mr G will only have the rate from 15 July 2020 until 31 May 2022, the 
£1,380.21 compensation is the equivalent of him being on the rate between 6 May 2020 and 
15 July 2020. This means, financially, Mr G will have the equivalent of being on the rate from 
6 May 2020 until 31 May 2022.
Finally, Mr G initially said he wanted £8,000 compensation, later saying he wanted the 
mortgages written off. Ive considered Mr Gs arguments very carefully, but having done so 
Im satisfied the £200 recommended by our investigator is fair. Whilst the transfers took time, 
unfortunately that process needed to be followed due to the nature of Mr Gs existing 
accounts, albeit I understand that Mr G found the process difficult and distressing. Bank of 
Ireland has already offered to cover the financial loss that Mr G incurred by remaining on 
SVR between 6 May and 15 July, and bearing that in mind and considering our normal level 
of awards, Im satisfied £200 compensation is fair and reasonable.
  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and order The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland to pay 
to Mr G:
£1,380.21 plus simple annual interest of 8%* to each overpayment, running from the 
date of payment to date of refund.
£200 compensation.
If Bank of Ireland considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award it may do so but it should give Mr G the necessary paperwork, if he asks for it, so he 
can reclaim any tax from HMRC if hes entitled to do so.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman