DRN-3744334
The complaint
Mr G says the advice given and the arrangements made by Portal Financial Services LLP 
(Portal), to switch his personal pensions into a Novia Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) 
and the investments recommended was unsuitable.
What happened
In 2014 Mr G was introduced to Portal for it to conduct a pension review. He accepted and in 
February information was gathered about his circumstances, objectives and matters such as 
his attitude to risk.
Portal issued a suitability report dated 17 February 2014 in which it identified Mr Gs 
objectives were:
to use your tax free cash [TFC] towards clearing your outstanding debt and to provide an 
emergency fund.
Ultimately Mr G was persuaded to switch his two personal pensions with Aviva Life (AL) and 
Scottish Widows (SW) into a SIPP with Novia. Shortly after his funds were transferred. 
Portals records suggest the transfer value of his former plans was around £24,230. From 
this he received £6,057 TFC and paid a 5% fee to Portal for its initial advice. After all 
deductions around £16,800 was said to be available to invest in line with his assessed 
attitude to risk. Around 49% of his pension pot was placed in non-standard bonds.
Mr G complained to Portal in 2021. He had several concerns, including about the suitability 
of the investments hed been exposed to and the lack of liquidity of his funds. He said the 
recommendations had been unsuitable.
Portal sent Mr G its final response to his complaint on 20 October 2021. It argued hed 
brought his complaint too late and so this Service couldnt consider it. The Investigator 
reviewing his case told it why this Service could review his complaint. 
I should note that before proceeding to decide the merits of a case, an ombudsman will 
always keep matters of jurisdiction  this Services authority to review complaints  under 
review. Having done so, Ive concluded Mr Gs case is one we can consider.
Turning to the merits of Mr Gs complaint, the Investigator concluded it should be upheld. He 
didnt think he had the knowledge or experience to fully understand the investments being 
recommended, nor were they suitable given his risk appetite. 
Portal disagreed with the Investigators findings and conclusions. So Mr Gs complaint has 
been passed to me to consider afresh and to arrive at a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Gs case?
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Portal for Mr G. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, 
which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA 
Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like Portal. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Gs complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Gs best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial Services Authority, 
published a checklist for pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four 
key issues it thought should be focussed on:- Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than their 
existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
- Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? This 
could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed annuity rate 
or the right to take benefits early.
- Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded attitude 
to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
- Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need for 
ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance about unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report.
The report contained examples of good practice in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where a firm had robust controls in place and limited client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where those clients had been assessed as being suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example of bad practice given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were invested in a single UCIS (unregulated collective investment scheme).
Even if the non-standard funds Mr G was invested in werent technically a UCIS, they share 
similar characteristics including the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid, subject 
to counter-party risk and uncertain valuation. And I think these matters are relevant to my 
consideration.
Did Portal adhere to the regulatory requirements placed on it?
In short, I dont think Portal met the regulatory requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
There are several documents supplied by Portal relating to its transaction with Mr G that are 
important to my consideration, these include the fact-find and its suitability report.
Portal had to obtain information from Mr G in order to understand essential facts about him. 
In order to advise him to switch his pension funds into the SIPP with Novia and facilitate 
investments in the funds it recommended it had to believe that:
- The service or recommended transaction met Mr Gs investment objectives (including 
his attitude to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted to invest for).
- Mr G was able to financially withstand the investment risks.
- Mr G had the necessary experience or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
Portal hasnt met these obligations.
Mr G was 56 at the time of the advice. Its recorded he was a factory worker earning around 
£15,000 a year. He was married and his wife had a similar income. Household net monthly 
income was said to be around £2,100. Monthly outgoings recorded were around £1,800. 
However, Portal indicates a net monthly disposable income of between £0-100. Its workings 
dont add up.
Mr and Mrs G owned their home. It was said to be worth around £150,000 with an 
outstanding mortgage of about £40,000. Mr G was said to have an outstanding credit card 
balance of around £2,000. No other assets or liabilities were noted.Mr G was said to have a chosen retirement age of 65. His two personal pensions with AL 
and SW were worth around £24,000. Aside from any entitlement to a state pension, he had 
no other provision. He was said to want to access TFC to pay down his debt and to establish 
and emergency fund.
I dont find the objectives captured by Portal for Mr G to be a compelling set of reasons for 
switching his pensions. His credit card debt was modest. Theres no indication he was 
struggling to service it. The position detailed on household finances suggests some 
headroom on disposable income.
Portal was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr G about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over years 
are to provide for retirement. Switching a pension is a significant decision.
It was Portals role to discern what Mr Gs wants and needs were and why. Its role wasnt 
simply to facilitate what he wanted without any critical thinking. It had to use due care and 
skill. It had to do these things because it had to act in his best interests. It hasnt 
demonstrated that it did these things.
Risk appetite assessment 
I dont believe either party would dispute that Mr G wasnt an investment professional. He 
wasnt a sophisticated investor. Indeed, from the information gathered by Portal it seems he 
had little knowledge or experience of investing. This is important context when I consider 
what happened to him 
Portal conducted a risk appetite assessment with Mr G. It concluded he had a balanced 
attitude to risk. This was defined in the following terms:
Balanced investors typically have moderate levels of knowledge about financial matters and 
will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters. They may have some 
experience of investment, including investing in products containing risky assets such as 
equities and bonds.
In general, balanced investors understand that they have to take investment risk in order to 
be able to meet their long-term goals. They are likely to be willing to take risk with at least 
part of their available assets.
Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain outcome for a gamble 
provided that the potential rewards from the gamble are high enough. They will usually be 
able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively quickly, but do still suffer from 
some feelings of regret when their decisions turn out badly.
Ive reviewed the answers Mr G provided to Portal for its risk questionnaire, here are some 
examples (his responses are in bold):
I generally look for safer investments, even if it means lower returns  agree
Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on financial matters  strongly agree
I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity  disagree
I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments  agree
I find investment matters easy to understand  disagree
I am willing to take substantial financial risk to earn substantial returns  disagree
Ive little experience of investing in stocks and shares, and property  agreeI tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive made  agree
Id rather take my chances with high risk investments than increase savings  disagree
The significant majority of Mr Gs responses here indicate a person with a cautious attitude 
to risk. I accept his responses to perhaps a third of the 15 questions indicated some 
contradictions and tensions in his outlook. In my experience thats normal, and it wouldve 
been Portals responsibility to tease these matters out to understand what his risk outlook 
really was. But I cant find a proper exploration of what underpinned its categorisation. 
Rather, it seems his answers were fed into a system and dealt with in a mechanical manner 
without enquiry.
Portal recommended Mr G invest nearly 50% of his pension funds into non-standard bonds. 
These were described in the following terms:
Lakeview UK Investments PLC - Secured on a successfully trading UK Holiday village in 
Cornwall, England. The proceeds of this bond are being used by the developer to build new 
holiday villas and an apart hotel to satisfy the increasing tourist demand. The Bond term is 
five years with 11% interest paid annually in arrears and then every 3 months from year 2. 
70% of all sales will be held in escrow to pay back the loan interest and the loan.
Real Estate Investments USA PLC - Secured on US residential property (mainly in 
Florida, Chicago and Detroit) which is being bought back from banks, refurbished and sold to 
onward pre-determined investors. The Bond pays 15% per annum, paid annually in arrears 
and has a term of 5 years. All interest and capital is lent denominated in sterling so there is 
no direct currency risk.
Strategic Residential Developments PLC - The Bond term is for 5 years, with 11% paid 
annually in arrears. Loaned monies are used to source and purchase existing houses in the 
South of England with potential development plots within their grounds, using a sophisticated 
software programme, plots which will then be sold separately and developed. Security will be 
taken over these houses once purchased and released when sold.
Tambaba Developments PLC - The Bond term is 7 years with 11% interest paid annually 
deferred initially until year 2. Loaned monies will be used to develop the site completing 
infrastructure works and building villas and bungalows for mostly local purchasers at the 
Tambaba Country Club Resort in the state of Paraiba, North East Brazil. Security is taken 
over the Tambaba development site (minimum value of 150% of any loan) with all capital 
lent and paid back into sterling.
Im surprised that specific warnings such as those around counterparties, development and 
valuation uncertainty were not more clearly brought to Mr Gs attention. 
As well as creating a serious lack of diversification in how Mr Gs pension funds were being 
invested, Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that he was a sufficiently experienced or 
sophisticated investor to appreciate the risks he was taking on. And he had no experience of 
the specialist bond instrument.
Im also concerned that Mr Gs capacity for loss doesnt appear to have been thought 
through properly. Although Portal did consider this important aspect of Mr Gs circumstances 
in the suitability report, all Ive seen is a list of questions it said it asked him. But I havent 
seen the responses he gave. 
From the fact-find exercise we know enough to conclude Mr G had little capacity for loss. 
Aside from any state pension, his AL and SW plans were his only retirement provision. 
Theres nothing in his recorded circumstances to justify the assertion made by Portal that he 
had a suitable level of capacity for loss, whatever that meant.Its arguable Portal seemed more concerned with facilitating its recommendations rather 
than providing effective advice about what was in Mr Gs best interests concerning his 
valuable pension funds. Like the Investigator, based on what Ive seen, I think a more 
realistic assessment of his risk outlook was somewhere between cautious and perhaps 
balanced.
Further weaknesses with Portals advice
Portal hasnt done enough to satisfy me that it effectively explored the options available to 
Mr G. For example, it hasnt supplied a copy of the policy documents for his AL and SW 
policies. So, I dont know what flexibilities his existing plans provided, in terms of switching 
between funds to better align these with his attitude to risk. And whether his pension 
providers at the time wouldve allowed him to switch to a more suitable product with no or 
reduced charges. 
Portal was making a case to Mr G that the returns from his new arrangements would be 
such they would more than make up for the additional charges. It said:
Overall, this strategy may cost more than your existing arrangement. Whilst the intention is 
that this will be more than compensated for by the increased growth of your pension fund 
this cannot be guaranteed.
Even this statement from Portal was nuanced and lacked transparency. It was clear the 
costs associated with his new SIPP, the fund management charges and its own adviser 
charges would significantly exceed the charges on his former plans.
I havent seen a copy of any illustrations showing the effect of the charges in his new 
pension arrangements on potential returns. Neither have I seen a comparison between his 
AL and SW pensions and his Novia SIPP, showing historic performance and potential net 
returns.
Further, Portals approach was weak in terms of helping Mr G to plan for his retirement. The 
fact-find didnt indicate what income he was targeting. Theres no evidence it sought to assist 
him in getting to the bottom of this fundamental question.
Overall, I dont think Portal shouldve recommended Mr G switch his personal pensions with 
AL and SW into a relatively expensive arrangement providing him with ongoing advice, with 
a Novia SIPP and the investment funds it recommended, the bulk of which were above his 
risk appetite. I say this because of the flaws Ive found in its advice process; what it knew 
about his attitude to risk and capacity for loss; his lack of experience of the sort of 
investments it was recommending; and its lack of exploration of his income needs in 
retirement.
Portal was aware Mr G was being exposed to significant risks in the investments it was 
facilitating. It knew these funds could be illiquid, meaning Mr G might have difficulty getting 
access to his pension funds.
I think if Portal had given Mr G effective advice, he wouldnt have gone ahead with the switch 
from his personal pensions into the SIPP and the balanced portfolio it recommended. Its 
unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against the 
recommendations received. I think its more likely than not Mr G wouldve opted to retain his 
existing pensions.
To conclude I dont think the switch of Mr Gs personal pension funds into the Novia SIPP 
and the recommended portfolio of investments could sensibly be regarded as fair to him. As such I think Portal failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing him with advice 
and making the arrangements.
So, taking all the circumstances of the case into account, its reasonable to uphold this 
complaint against Portal and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Gs case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Portal Financial Services LLP responsible for.
If Portal had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Mr G wouldve switched personal 
pension funds into the Novia SIPP, and so he wouldnt have suffered the financial loss hes 
potentially facing. I think its most likely he wouldve left his pension where it was.
So Portal Financial Services LLP needs to do the following.
1. Calculate a notional loss Mr G has suffered as a result of making the switch of his pension 
funds from AL and SW
Portal Financial Services LLP should calculate a notional value of Mr Gs pension funds had 
they been invested in line with his cautious/balanced attitude to risk. To do this it should use 
a hybrid benchmark to arrive at the fair value with a 50/50 split between (i) the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income Total Return Index) and (ii) the average rate from fixed rate bonds. Im 
satisfied this is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved if Mr 
Gs pension had remained invested in his previous plans.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Portal should 
use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of 
England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply 
those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Portal should then find the current value of his SIPP, including investments and any cash 
held. Concerning the valuation here  the approach to be taken is set out in step 2.
Im not aware of the detailed position regarding any additional contributions Mr G made to 
his SIPP. Similarly, I think he mayve withdrawn some benefits. After confirming the detailed 
position, then the value Portal obtains or the calculations it makes should assume these 
adjustments would still have occurred and on the same dates. 
The adjusted, as appropriate, like for like difference between the notional value of Mr Gs 
former personal pensions and the equivalent current value of his SIPP will be his basic 
financial loss that Portal needs to redress.
2. Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be redeemed
To close Mr Gs SIPP and avoid ongoing fees, the investments need to be crystallised. To 
do this Portal Financial Services LLP should ask the SIPP provider to determine an amount 
its willing to accept as a commercial value for the investments and Portal can then pay this 
to take ownership of them.
If Portal is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, the value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation. In this instance, where Portal has compensated Mr G fully in line with my assessment, then it may ask him to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from 
the investments. 
Any undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr G may 
receive from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access from the 
SIPP. Portal will need to meet any costs in drawing up this undertaking.
3. Pay an amount into Mr Gs SIPP so that the value is increased by the loss calculated 
(resulting from 1 and 2) or pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax. 
If compensation is paid into Mr Gs SIPP, payment should allow for the effect of charges and 
any available tax relief, so that he is in the same position as if hed stayed in his original 
personal pension plans.
If paying compensation into Mr G s SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance and/or the plan is closed and Portal Financial Services LLP takes on his 
investment, then it should pay his compensation as a cash sum. In doing so it should 
make a notional deduction to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional deduction should be calculated using Mr G s actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 
20%. However, if Mr G wouldve been able to take TFC, the reduction should be applied 
to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
4. SIPP fees
If the investments arent removed from Mr Gs SIPP, and it remains open after compensation 
has been paid, Portal Financial Services LLP should pay him an amount equivalent to five 
years of future fees. This should allow enough time for the issues with the investments to be 
dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP.
If, after five years, Portal wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking for 
any future payments under the investment, it must agree to pay any further future SIPP fees. 
If Portal fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mr G should then have the option of trying to cancel the 
investments to allow the plan to be closed.
5. Provision for interest
Portal Financial Services LLP must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which this Service informs it that Mr G accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portal considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr G how much has been 
taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Distress and inconvenience
I think Mr G has been caused trouble and upset because of Portal Financial Services LLPs 
failings. His retirement planning has been disrupted. In recognition of this it should pay him a 
further £500.Portal should also provide details of its calculations to Mr G in a clear format.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Gs complaint. As such, I require Portal Financial Services LLP to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman