DRN-2559756
The complaint
Mr C firstly complains about four loans that he took out with Provident Personal Credit 
Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, (SL), which he said were unaffordable. He is also 
unhappy that SL applied a default to his credit file.
What happened
Mr C was given four instalment loans by SL from December 2017 to November 2018. A 
summary of the loans taken out by Mr C is shown below:
Loan 
number Date of loan Repayment 
dateLoan 
amount Number of monthly 
repayments 
1. 17/12/17 2/4/18 £150 3
2. 5/2/18 30/9/18 £450 5
3. 16/4/18 3/8/18 £110 3
4. 6/11/18 27/11/19 £400 3
Mr C said that he had multiple loans which he couldn't afford, and SL continued to lend. He 
said that paying SL each month left him with too little money, so he had to keep borrowing to 
get through the next month. SL should have realised from the number of times he borrowed 
that his debt problems were getting worse. His credit reports would have shown all his other 
debts and problems including late payments, defaults and debt management. He had 
previously failed to pay other loans and SL continued to lend to him and he had other 
payday loans he was struggling with. 
Mr C is also unhappy that SL applied a default to his credit file on Loan 4, which he was not 
aware of as he did not receive any notification of this. His preferred contact method was by 
email. He would like the default to be removed from his credit file as he has paid the debt 
and his mental health has suffered because of it. He is also seeking a refund of interest and 
any charges he paid, plus statutory interest.
In its final response letter, SL said that it had asked Mr C on each of his loans for details of 
his income and outgoings. It also used details from a credit file search to make sure that it 
had a full understanding of Mr Cs existing credit commitments. Where this check indicated 
that Mr C had a higher level of expenditure than the amount hed declared, it used the higher 
figure to ensure that it did not underestimate his outgoings. SL also used its checks to 
increase Mr Cs other outgoings so that they better reflected someone in his circumstances.  
SL also said that it used the income Mr C had declared to check that he could afford the cost 
of the new loan and his existing commitments and that he would still have some disposable 
money remaining to cover any additional expenses he might incur whilst he was repaying his 
loans.   
SL said that the fact that Mr Cs disposable income on each loan was sufficient, even after it 
had increased his outgoings and included his loan repayments, suggested that the decision 
to lend was responsible and that the loans would be affordable for Mr C. SL also said it was 
confident it did everything that could reasonably be expected of it to ensure that when it lent 
to Mr C, it was responsible to do so and that the loans would be affordable for him.
With regard to the default, SL said that Mr C had agreed to repay Loan 4 by three monthly 
instalments of around £197 from 1 January 2019 to 1 March 2019. But the first payment it 
received was £50 on 28 February 2019. Mr C had then contacted it on 4 March 2019 to 
explain that he had difficulties, but he was looking to start repaying the loan. SL then 
suspended any collections contact for 30 days to give Mr C the opportunity to speak with a 
free money advice company. But SL received no further contact from Mr C, and it issued a 
Notice of Default on 9 May 2019. The notice was sent to the address Mr C had provided in 
his loan application. The notice gave Mr C 28 days to get in contact with SL to prevent 
further action from being taken. The letter explained that should Mr C fail to do this, SL 
would send the account for debt collection and also register a default with the credit 
agencies. The default was then registered on 28 August 2019. Although Mr C had settled the 
loan in November 2019, SL said that as the default has been recorded correctly and it 
accurately reflected his payment history, it would remain on his credit file.
Our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. With regard to 
Loans 1 to 3, she said that there wasnt anything in the information Mr C had provided or the 
information SL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr C was saying. With regard to Loan 4, she thought SL shouldve taken 
steps to build a more detailed picture of Mr Cs financial situation. But she hadnt seen 
anything in the information provided which suggested SL wouldve known that Mr C wouldnt 
have been able to sustainably make the repayments for Loan 4.
With regard to the default, the adjudicator noted that Mr C had contacted SL in March 2019 
to tell it that he was struggling to keep up with his repayments. She could see that SL had  
put his account on hold and that it had asked Mr C to get back in touch with it. From the 
information she had seen, she couldnt see that Mr C had got back in touch with SL, but she 
said that she would be happy to consider any further information Mr C had. The adjudicator 
noted that Loan 4 wasnt repaid until November 2019. She couldnt say that SL was wrong to 
register the default. 
Mr C disagreed. He said that the lending was unfair, and he was unhappy about the default 
SL had put on his credit file.
SL didnt provide a response to the adjudicators view. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
investigate.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr C 
and to SL on 31 December 2020. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when SL lent to Mr C the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. CONC said that a lender needed to check that a consumer could afford to meet his 
repayments in a sustainable manner. This meant a consumer being able to meet his 
repayments out of his normal income without having to go without or borrow further. 
The regulations werent prescriptive about what checks SL needed to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess whether or not Mr C would be able to meet his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggested that 
the same checks might not be the appropriate thing to do for all consumers, or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing might signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
As Id set out above, SL had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr C. It had asked 
him for details of his monthly income and expenditure. Mr C had declared his monthly 
income as between £1,650 and £2,088 and his expenditure as between £885 and £935. SL 
had also added a safeguard amount to the expenditure declared by Mr C to reflect the 
information it had seen on its credit and internal checks and it added a further buffer for 
expenses. 
SL had also said that it checked Mr Cs credit file before agreeing to the loans. SL had 
provided this service with a summary of its credit checks for Loans 2 to 4. 
Id noted that although the amounts that Mr C needed to repay each month were smaller 
than if hed taken a normal payday loan, he was also committing to making those 
repayments over a longer period.  In addition, Mr C sometimes had a number of loans 
outstanding at the same time. So, Id considered the total amount that Mr C needed to repay 
to SL each month. 
Loan 1 was for £150 and was repayable by three monthly repayments. The highest monthly 
repayment was around £74. 
Id thought about whether SLs checks were proportionate for Loan 1. I could see that the 
information Mr C gave SL about his income and expenses indicated that the loan 
repayments were affordable. And I didnt think the repayment amounts on Loan 1 were so 
large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr C financial difficulty.
I thought that the checks SL had carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were proportionate. And 
given Mr Cs repayment amounts and that this was his first loan with the lender, I didnt think 
it wouldve been proportionate for SL to have asked him for the amount of information that 
would have been needed to show the lending was unsustainable. So, I didnt think SL was 
wrong to give Loan 1 to Mr C. I could see that Loan 2 was taken out whilst Loan 1 was still outstanding. Loan 2 was for the 
higher amount of £450 repayable by five monthly repayments of around £158. But as Loan 1 
was still outstanding, total monthly repayments of around £232 for both loans were due. SLs 
credit checks showed that Mr C had no active accounts in arrears. I noted that Mr Cs 
adjusted monthly disposable income was just £72.77. But I could see that was after SL had 
applied its prudent safeguards and buffers to Mr Cs declared expenditure. 
Loan 2 was still outstanding when Mr C took out Loan 3. The loan amount had reduced to 
£110 and was repayable over three monthly repayments. Loan 1 had been repaid by that 
time. The total monthly repayments for Loans 2 and 3 were around £213. SLs credit checks 
again showed that Mr C had no active credit accounts in arrears. Id noted that Mr Cs 
adjusted monthly disposable income was around £80. But again, I could see that was after 
SL had applied its prudent safeguards and buffers to Mr Cs declared expenditure. 
Overall, given Mr Cs repayment amounts, and what was apparent about his circumstances 
at the time, I didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for SL to have asked him for the 
amount of information that would have been needed to show Loans 2 and 3 were 
unsustainable.  
And I didnt think there was anything in the information Mr C had provided or the information 
SL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying 
what he was saying.  So, I didnt think SL was wrong to give Loans 2 and 3 to Mr C.
By the time Mr C had applied for Loan 4, I could see that hed made late repayments on his 
first three loans. I could see that Mr C had made his last repayment on Loan 1 a day late. 
But hed made all four of his last four monthly repayments on Loan 2 substantially later than 
they were due and the loan was repaid around two months later than the due date. And 
whilst Loan 3 was repaid a day late, two of the repayments were repaid much later than the 
contractual repayment dates. 
Mr C had applied for Loan 4 a little more than a month after Loan 2 was repaid and the loan 
amount was almost four times more than his previous loan. But I thought the fact that Mr C 
had numerous difficulties repaying Loans 2 and 3 was likely to be an indication that further 
lending would be unsustainable and there was a real risk that Mr C wasnt going to be able 
to sustainably repay Loan 4 and the potential difficulties or adverse consequences for him. 
So as a responsible lender, I didnt think SL should have agreed to give Loan 4 to Mr C. And 
I intended to say that SL should put things right as shown below.  
In deciding what redress SL should fairly pay in this case Id thought about what might have 
happened had it stopped lending to Mr C from Loan 4, as I was satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there were a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr C might have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and SL which he might not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, 
he might have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even 
possible.
Or, he might have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which might or might not have been the same was 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Id seen in this case, I certainly didnt think I could fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr C in a compliant way at that time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, I wasnt persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr C would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, Id said that it wouldnt be fair to now reduce SLs liability in this case for what I 
was satisfied it had done wrong and should put right.
Mr Cs credit file
I noted that Mr C was unhappy that SL had applied a default to his credit file. Hed said that 
the default notice should have been sent by email. But I was aware that such notices should 
be sent by post. SL said that the notice was sent to the address Mr C gave in his loan 
application. I could see Mr C had told SL in June 2020 that hed left that address in      
August 2019. So, he still lived there when the notice was sent to him in May 2019. I could 
also see that Mr C had failed to make the three loan repayments for Loan 4 on the 
contractual dates. 
But Id said that generally speaking, Id have expected a lender to remove any adverse 
information recorded on a consumers credit file as a result of a loan they shouldnt have 
been given. I saw no reason to depart from our typical approach in this case. So, I thought 
that SL should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation to 
Loan 4, including the default. 
So, subject to any further representations by Mr C or SL, my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to order SL to put things right as 
follows. 
Putting things right  what SL needs to do
SL should: 
a) refund the interest and fees Mr C paid for Loan 4; 
b) pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the 
dates of settlement; 
c) remove any adverse information about Loan 4 from Mr Cs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest. SL must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr C responded to my provisional decision to say that he was happy with my provisional 
decision and he had nothing else to add.
SL hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
  
Given that Mr C and SL have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require SL to pay Mr C some compensation and take the steps as set out 
below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma Loans, to:
1. Refund the interest and fees Mr C paid for Loan 4; 
2. Pay interest on these refunds at 8% simple* per year from the dates of payment to the  
dates of settlement; and
3. Remove any adverse information about Loan 4 from Mr Cs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest. SL must give Mr C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman