DRN-4328658
The complaint
Mr V complains as a director of K, a limited company, that it was mis-sold a business 
protection insurance policy by L J J Associates Ltd (LJJ).
Where I refer to LJJ this includes its agents and appointed representatives acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
When the manufacturers warranty on a printing press expired, K took out a policy that would 
provide cover for any unforeseen damage to the machine.
K renewed the policy a number of times. When it came to renew the policy in 2019, K bought 
a new policy through LJJ. This policy was renewed in 2020.
After a problem with the machine K tried to claim on the policy but the claim was declined by 
the insurer because the policy provided cover for an Image Control Unit. The insurer said to 
make a claim for the damage K would have needed cover for an Inpress Control Unit, which 
it didnt have.
K complained that the policy had been mis-sold. Mr V says he has always ensured the policy 
provided cover for an Inpress Control Unit, and when he had specifically checked this the 
representative of LJJ told him they sometimes used different terminology but the cover was 
the same. He says he relied on this assurance when taking out the policy and would not 
have taken it if hed known it didnt provide the right type of cover.
LJJ didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said:
This policy was in place for two years  from 2019 to 2020, and from 2020 to 2021. It 
provided policy documents each year and specifically asked K to check the details 
were correct.
Before the policy was sold, K was given written quotations which clearly said cover 
was for an Image Control Unit.
K signed the documents, bought the policy on this basis and renewed it on the same 
basis.
When Mr V referred the complaint to this service our investigator didnt at first think it should 
be upheld. But after considering further information provided by Mr V he concluded that the 
policy had been mis-sold. He said K had been left without cover as a result and asked LJJ to 
compensate it by paying the value of the claim.
LJJ disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. It said:
K had an Image Control Unit insured with the previous policy  not an Inpress Control 
Unit, so its not correct for Mr V to say he had always ensured cover was for an 
Inpress Control Unit and he wouldnt have taken the policy if it didnt include this.
The investigator had changed his view after receiving information from the former 
employee who had sold the policy to K but that person has said that information 
wasnt correct and should not be relied on.
Mr Vs version of events relied heavily on an email apparently sent by the former 
employee in April 2019 but he had only produced that email some months after the 
event and it questions how reliable that is.
Mr V says when the policy was renewed in 2020 he again asked about the policy 
wording and was told that was the way they worded things but this is not correct. It 
would not confuse an Inpress Control Unit with an Image Control Unity  they are two 
different things.
There is a lot of disagreement about what happened but the one thing that is certain 
is that Mr V gave his written instruction to proceed with cover for an Image Control 
Unit.
I issued a provisional decision saying I did not intend to uphold the complaint. I set out my 
reasons as follows:
When K tried to claim on the policy, the claim was rejected by the insurer. Mr V says thats 
because the right cover wasnt in place. If there was a mis-sale and K has lost out as a result 
of not having the cover it should have had, I would need to consider whether LJJ needs to 
do anything to put things right for K. Ive considered the evidence carefully but I dont 
consider there was a mis-sale.
LJJs responsibility was to ensure K was given appropriate information about the policy so 
that it could make an informed decision about whether to buy it. The level of appropriate 
information provided takes into account the complexity of the policy and the type of 
customer. The information provided to K needed to be clear, fair and not misleading.
The policy documents clearly refer to cover being for an Image Control Unit. Mr V was sent 
the documents showing this and asked to confirm they were correct. On the face of it, this 
was a non-advised sale where the documents were clear. But Mr V relies on an email sent in 
April 2019; he says he took out the policy on the basis of this email.
To uphold the complaint, I would need to accept the contents of the email sent in April 2019, 
and conclude it was reasonable for Mr V to rely on that rather than the policy documents 
sent to him.
The email in question says the representative has got a cheaper quote and describes the 
cover as being for a press with 5 Colour + Coater & Impress Control Unit. It does seem to 
refer to an Inpress Control Unit, though the spelling is incorrect and this contradicts with the 
policy documents, which clearly refer to an Image Control Unit.
Mr V was asked to check the documents carefully to confirm they were correct. He was a 
director of the company with many years experience. So its reasonable to expect him to 
understand the difference between the different kinds of units and to check whether the 
policy does provide cover for the type of unit K had.
I dont find the evidence from Mr V that he was persuaded to buy the policy on the basis of 
this email, rather than the policy documents, very persuasive. He says he was checking the 
cover was correct  but the email he relies on was sent before the policy documents were 
sent. So if he then received policy documents saying something different, Id expect him to 
check that before signing the documents and proceeding to take out the policy. 
Ive also taken account that:
hes adamant he always insisted on having cover for an Inpress Control Unit on his 
previous policy but it wasnt in fact on the policy;
there is evidence from LJJ that it wouldnt have confused an Inpress Control Unit and 
an Image Control Unit;I dont consider the evidence from the representative who sold the policy can be 
relied on.
Mr V has referred not just to the email that person sent in April 2019, but to an email he sent 
more recently in support of the complaint. But the individual has since made it clear he does 
not wish to support the complaint. He says the recent email was drafted for him and he 
signed it at a time when he was unwell. He also says:
he cant confirm the email from April 2019 was sent by him;
Inpress Control Unit is spelt incorrectly in that email as Impress Control; and
the words used in that email are not words he would use.
LJJ also points out that while it has always been clear about terminology, Mr V has often 
mis-spelt Inpress Control Unit as Impress Control Unit.
The evidence in support of Ks complaint is inconsistent and taking all the above points into 
account I dont find it persuasive. For these reasons Im not minded to uphold the complaint.
Replies to the provisional decision
LJJ has no further comments to add in reply to the provisional decision.
Mr V does not accept the provisional decision and has provided further comments on behalf 
of K, which include:
there are inconsistencies in details set out in the provisional decision and it appears 
LJJ may not have been aware of the exchanges he had with its representative;
the representative gave several quotes for the insurance and referred to the inpress 
control unit in these quotes;
an employee of the representative consistently re-assured him there was nothing 
more than the use of different terminology and that the inpress was covered;
he has never mis-spelt the term and in fact he was constantly pointing out the 
incorrect spelling, as it was that spelling mistake that was given as the initial reason 
for the claim being rejected;
he never received any policy wording to check so could not have known what was or 
wasnt covered;
he never had any dialogue with anyone from LJJ directly until he raised the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered Mr Vs further comments carefully but they dont lead me to change my 
decision. 
The policy documents clearly say what was covered by the insurance. Ultimately, the claim 
was declined because of the discrepancy between the item covered by the policy and the 
item K actually had and claimed for. If the policy document set out the wrong item, Id expect 
Mr V to challenge this. 
Mr V says he never received the policy documents, so couldnt have checked them. But LJJ 
points out that he signed the documents on behalf of K confirming he wished to proceed. 
And in correspondence about the claim he said that he had questioned it at the time. So his 
account of this is inconsistent.Mr V also says he never mis-spelt the name and was the one trying to correct it but in email 
correspondence in August 2021 he used the incorrect spelling. And when he forwarded the 
email which he said was from the representative (from April 2019) he again miss-spelt the 
same word.
These may appear minor points but they are further examples of the inconsistencies in 
Mr Vs account. I explained in my provisional decision why I did not find the evidence in 
support of his complaint persuasive and that remains the case. To uphold the complaint, I 
would need to accept the contents of the email sent in April 2019, and decide Mr V 
reasonably relied on that rather than the policy documents. Ive explained why that evidence 
is not persuasive and taking that into account, together with the various inconsistencies in 
the evidence in support of Ks complaint, Im not persuaded the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman