DRN-4098184
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE didnt pay for private treatment under her 
travel insurance policy. Shes also unhappy with the level of service she received.
What happened
For ease of reading, any reference to Great Lakes includes the actions of its agents. This 
policy only covered Mrs T but her husband, Mr T, represented her whilst abroad and during 
the complaint with our service. This is why Ive also referred to Mr T in this decision.
Mrs T took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. The period of 
cover was from 13 August 2022 until 12 August 2023. She already held another policy that 
covered her family, but she took this one out to specifically cover her pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Mrs T travelled abroad with Mr T and their child for a holiday theyd booked between 13 and 
28 August 2022. Unfortunately, Mrs T fell ill on the outbound flight. She was taken to a public 
hospital on 14 August 2022, and she had emergency surgery there the next day. 
Mr T notified Great Lakes about the situation on 16 August 2022. He and Mrs T werent 
happy with the level of care Mrs T was receiving at the hospital  both medical care and lack 
of nursing care. Mr T wanted Mrs T to be moved to another hospital. Great Lakes said it 
would need medical information from the hospital to assess the situation.
Great Lakes says it asked the hospital for medical reports, and it asked if Mrs T was able to 
carry out the basic housekeeping duties, such as bathing and eating. Great Lakes agents 
doctor said on 17 August 2022 that Mrs T would carry out the basic housekeeping duties on 
her own, and shed be discharged the next day.
Mr T has said he wasnt able to help Mrs T with the basic housekeeping duties, as the 
hospital didnt allow him to visit with their child and he couldnt leave her alone in the hotel.
Mrs T was discharged from the hospital on 18 August 2022, but she had to return on 
25 August 2022 due to complications. Great Lakes had arranged for Mrs T to see a private 
doctor, but the doctor sent her back to the public hospital. At this point Mr T asked Great 
Lakes to repatriate Mrs T to the UK so she could receive better care. Great Lakes said it 
would arrange this and it would get in touch once this was sorted. But this didnt happen, and 
Great Lakes never called Mr T back about repatriation.
After not hearing from Great Lakes, Mr and Mrs T got in touch with their other travel 
insurance provider who paid for their trip extension under medical grounds, and for their new 
flights home. Mrs T wasnt hospitalised during this time, but she had regular medical 
appointments to assess her fitness to fly back home. Mr and Mrs T didnt contact Great 
Lakes again until they were back in the UK.
Mrs T wants Great Lakes to pay her compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. She says she didnt receive the service she paid for by not receiving private care or 
being repatriated.
Great Lakes responded to Mrs Ts complaint and said the following:
She held a travel insurance policy and not private medical insurance;
Great Lakes needed to review medical information before confirming cover under the 
policy, and it tried to get information from the hospital;
The standard of medical care and general practices in the country is similar to what a 
patient would receive under the care of the NHS, but it was normal for relatives or 
friends to carry out basic housekeeping duties  but there was no medical need for a 
private nurse for Mrs T, or for her to be transferred to a private hospital;
Great Lakes accepted it hadnt been empathetic or understanding to Mrs Ts 
situation, and it hadnt seen tangible evidence of Mrs Ts case being monitored or 
any proactive management to work towards repatriating her; and
Mrs T could submit a claim to Great Lakes if there were any costs that werent 
covered by her other policy.
Great Lakes then offered to cancel Mrs Ts policy and refund her the premium paid, as Mrs T 
had asked it to do.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. She acknowledged Mrs Ts 
concern about the standard of care she received at the public hospital. But our investigator 
explained that this wasnt something an insurer is responsible for. And the insurer needed 
medical information from the treating medical professionals before it could take further 
action, such as repatriate Mrs T.
Our investigator acknowledged that Great Lakes hadnt handled things well, for example by 
not calling Mr T back when it said it would. But whilst our investigator didnt think Great 
Lakes service was acceptable, she didnt think there was any evidence to suggest that this 
had affected the treatment Mrs T received.
Overall, our investigator didnt think Great Lakes should cancel Mrs Ts policy and refund the 
premium  this was so that Mrs T could still submit a claim for Great Lakes to consider any 
costs that werent covered by her other insurer. But our investigator thought that Great Lakes 
should pay Mrs T £278.28 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  this 
included the amount of premium paid plus £100.
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators findings, but Mrs T didnt. As no agreement was 
reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I wrote to Great Lakes and said that I didnt think the compensation was enough in the 
circumstances. I said I thought £500 was fair and reasonable. Great Lakes agreed, but 
Mrs T still didnt think this was enough. She said she was misled about the policy she 
bought.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Firstly, its clear that the situation Mrs T was in was very distressing for her. Ive listened to 
the phone calls Mr T had with Great Lakes, and he made it very clear how concerned they 
were about the level of care Mrs T was receiving at the hospital. But as our investigator 
explained, a travel insurer isnt responsible for the level of care at a hospital. And in common 
with most travel insurance policies on the market, Mrs Ts policy provides cover for 
necessary and emergency medical treatment but excludes cover for private treatment, 
unless agreed by Great Lakes. This is set out in the terms and conditions of the policy, as 
well as the Insurance Product Information Document.
Page 3 of the terms and conditions of Mrs Ts policy says the following: PLEASE NOTE: 
This is a travel insurance policy and not private medical insurance. And the Emergency 
Medical & Repatriation Expenses section excludes cover for treatment in a private hospital 
or clinic abroad where a suitable public or state facility is available.
Having considered everything, I dont think Great Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
it didnt move Mrs T to a private hospital or pay for a private nurse. Im persuaded that it tried 
to get medical information from the hospital, and there was no medical evidence to suggest 
that Mrs T wasnt receiving appropriate care after her surgery, or that she needed a private 
nurse. For example, when Great Lakes asked its agents doctor to ask the hospital if Mrs T 
was able to carry out the basic housekeeping duties herself, the doctor responded to say 
that Mrs T would do so.
Whilst the policy does include cover for additional travelling costs to repatriate you home 
when recommended by our medical officer, this doesnt mean an insurer is required to 
arrange this without medical evidence. Firstly, its reasonable for an insurer to assess the 
medical need to do so, but also that the patient is fit to fly. In the circumstances here, there 
was no medical evidence to suggest repatriation was necessary. And in any event, Mrs T 
saw a private doctor on 26 August 2022 who said she wasnt fit to fly. So, I dont think Great 
Lakes acted unfairly or unreasonably when it didnt repatriate Mrs T when Mr T asked it to do 
so.
That said, its clear that Great Lakes didnt handle the situation well and that this had an 
impact on Mrs T during a stressful time. And I think Great Lakes caused Mrs T unnecessary 
additional distress and inconvenience. But I havent seen any medical evidence to suggest 
that this meant Mrs T didnt receive the treatment she needed.
Great Lakes has now agreed to pay Mrs T £500 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused, and I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. This 
would include any amount already offered and/or paid.
Additionally, if there are any costs that Mrs T incurred that werent covered by her other 
travel insurance policy, she can submit a claim for these costs to Great Lakes. I also note 
that her policy with Great Lakes provides a Hospital Daily Benefit when a policyholder is 
hospitalised. Mrs T can also make a claim for this benefit to Great Lakes, if she hasnt 
already done so, and Great Lakes should consider this in line with the terms of the policy.
Mrs T has also said that she didnt get the policy she thought she was buying. If she has any 
concerns about how the policy was sold, she can raise a complaint with the seller of the 
policy. But how the policy was sold isnt the responsibility of Great Lakes, who is the 
underwriter of the policy.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance SE to 
pay her a total of £500 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman