DRN-1833517
The complaint
Miss S is unhappy that Assurant General Insurance Limited won't provide her with a 
replacement phone whilst hers is considered for a warranty repair under her mobile phone 
and gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Miss S took out a mobile and gadget policy through her bank. She damaged her phone in 
March 2020. It was replaced with a refurbished equivalent. Within three weeks the 
replacement phone started re-booting. Miss S told Assurant this and it said her phone was 
covered by a 12-month warranty. So she could return it for assessment. This normally took 
about three working days.
If the phone could be fixed, it would be returned to her. But if it had been damaged by Miss 
S, then Assurant would treat that as a new claim. So, subject to the claim satisfying the 
terms and conditions of the policy, Miss S would be required to pay a £75 excess before she 
received another replacement phone.
Miss S said that in the current national lock down situation, she was having to work from 
home. Her job required that she use her phone to log on to her office remote network. And 
she was reliant on it to speak with customers as well as to keep in touch with people more 
generally. She doesn't have a land line and so couldn't be without a phone.
Assurant said that it was its policy for warranty claims not to send out a replacement phone 
without first checking the existing one. And as it doesn't cover business use or any loss 
occasioned in any claim other than the phone itself, it wasn't prepared to make an exception 
for Miss S.
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. She attempted to 
mediate between the parties to see if a lower value temporary phone could be lent to Miss S 
to tide her over until her phone could be repaired. But Assurant didn't agree to this.
So our investigator recommended that Assurant provide Miss S with a replacement phone 
and that if it turned out that Miss S had damaged the phone, then Assurant would be able to 
charge her an excess and treat it as a new claim. In the event that the claim wasn't covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy, she said that Assurant could recover the 
replacement phone from Miss S.
Miss S was happy with this. It was an unusual situation where she found herself needing to 
work from home unexpectedly. Assurant didn't think this was fair and requested an 
ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I'm afraid that Assurant will be disappointed to hear that I agree with our investigator that this 
complaint should be upheld. I'll explain why.
Putting things right
This isn't a complaint about Assurant failing to indemnify Miss S for a new claim. It has 
already settled the March 2020 claim and provided a replacement phone. It's that 
replacement that appears to be malfunctioning.
I can appreciate why Assurant is unhappy. Our investigator's recommendation isn't its usual 
process. And it wants to have the opportunity to check whether the phone was in fact broken 
when she was given it or if indeed Miss S has damaged it again, making this a new claim. 
The policy excludes liability for deliberately caused damage. So it might normally in the 
course of a claim be fair to allow Assurant to carry out its checks of the phone first. Miss S 
has already made three successful claims under her policy and I can see why 
Assurant wants to follow its standard process.
The thing is though, on the face of it, this is a warranty claim and not a new damage claim. 
Here Miss S says she needs a phone for her work and I'm satisfied that's the case. Working 
from home was for Miss S, and many other people during the current crisis, an unexpected 
turn of events. So, not uncommonly, it's not been possible for her employer to provide her 
with equipment to work from home on short notice. It's also not unreasonable for most 
employers to expect that their staff would have access to a working mobile phone of their 
own. 
Miss S' policy documentation makes reference to the position of a mobile phone in modern 
day life. On page 1 of the policy it says 'It's hard to imagine life without your mobile. With 
Tech Pack you can register up to 4 handsets at any one time.' And in the suitability 
statement for the insurance, it says that the policy is designed for people who need the 
following: - 'Devices are playing more of a role in everyday lives and it is important that we 
ensure that they continue to be used as frequently as needed.'
So, when a customer makes a damage or loss claim, they either get a repair or a 
replacement very quickly. Here Miss S got a replacement. And she's said its faulty. I accept 
that the phone was working on day one, but then appears to have started re-booting about 
three weeks later. I can't really speculate what's causing that, as it could be a software or 
hardware issue. And it's reasonable for Assurant to want to test it to find out. But it's also 
reasonable, particularly in the current situation, for Miss S to expect to not be without a 
phone. Indeed, that's why she took out the policy and could, from previous experience as 
well as from the policy wording I've set above, reasonably expect the insurance to have 
provided that.
The policy does seek to exclude liability for anything other than the phone itself. So it doesn't 
cover any sort of consequential loss such as loss of data, profit, etc. Assurant has also said 
it's not a business policy. But the fact that Miss S is using her phone to access her office 
systems and to make business calls, doesn't mean that the policy wouldn't apply to her 
phone. It is of course very common for people to use their mobile for both business and 
personal use. And it wouldn't generally be fair and reasonable for an insurer to fail to settle a 
claim under a policy like this on that basis, particularly where the business use was 
unexpected.
It's also important to remember that this is more likely than not a warranty claim and not a 
new loss. And the policy doesn't include specific service standards around timings that 
would apply here. Indeed, Miss S got a replacement phone when her last one was damaged 
on the same day that the courier collected the original one. So, Assurant can do this, although I appreciate why it wouldn't always offer this in warranty claims, as this would lead 
it to having to purchase replacement phones when the original one may be easily repairable. 
But here Miss S can't be without her phone and I don't think that, in the current 
circumstances, that's an unreasonable request for her to have made.
So, I don't think that Assurant is treating Miss S fairly or reasonably here by refusing to 
provide her with a replacement phone whilst it checks hers. It's not reasonable for it to 
expect Miss S to take time off work, as was suggested, whilst she waits for Assurant to 
collect and examine her phone. And that's particularly the case given that if this were a loss 
claim, rather than a warranty one, she might have expected, as happened in March, for the 
phone to be collected and a replacement delivered by the same courier on the same day. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I'm not saying here that it will be reasonable in every case for 
Assurant to have to do this. But in the particular circumstances of Miss S' complaint, where 
she needs her phone for work purposes, as well as to stay in touch with people in what are 
not normal times, it isn't fair and reasonable for Assurant to leave her without a phone, 
particularly as it is the replacement phone that it provided that appears to now be 
malfunctioning. 
As our investigator said, if once the malfunctioning phone has been checked, it can be fixed, 
then Assurant can of course arrange for that phone to be returned to her and the new 
replacement collected. Or, if there's evidence that Miss S damaged the phone and that this 
should've been a new claim, then it would be reasonable for Assurant to ask her to pay an 
excess. If any claim wouldn't have been covered under the terms of the policy, then 
Assurant can also consider requiring Miss S to return the new replacement as long as it is to 
also give her back the presently malfunctioning phone.
My final decision
It's my final decision to uphold this complaint against Assurant General Insurance Limited. 
Subject to the terms set out above, I require that Assurant arrange to provide Miss S with a 
replacement phone for the time from when it collects her malfunctioning phone to when it 
either returns it repaired under the warranty or it otherwise determines that this is to be 
treated as a new claim under the terms of the policy and is reasonably settled or declined 
accordingly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
James Kennard
Ombudsman