DRN-1795872
The complaint
Mr L has complained that work carried out by British Gas Services Limited on his heating 
and water system in 2017 resulted in an escape of water that caused damp and mould 
growth in his home. 
What happened
Mr L had a HomeCare Four policy with British Gas and this provided him with boiler, controls 
and central heating cover, including an annual service, and repairs to plumbing, drains and 
home electrics.  
Mr L said that in September 2019 he noticed a musty smell coming from a built-in, glass 
fronted display cupboard in his lounge. He said that British Gas carried out work to the hot 
water cylinder directly above the cupboard in 2017. He said the engineer at the time had 
difficulty changing a water valve and he thought there might have been an escape of water 
while the work was being carried out that wasnt properly dried out, and so caused the mould 
to grow over time. 
British Gas arranged for an engineer to visit Mr Ls home in September 2019. He said there 
was damage directly below the airing cupboard that housed the hot water cylinder and there 
were currently no leaks from the area the previous engineer had worked on. The engineer 
also said the damage to the wallpaper below looked like it was caused by condensation or 
damp, possibly from the chimney breast or lack of ventilation. So British Gas said it was not 
liable for the damage inside the cupboard. 
Mr L was unhappy with the response from British Gas and arranged for a survey to be 
carried out by a firm run by a family member. This concluded that there was damage to Mr 
Ls property but didnt confirm what caused the leak or whether British Gas were liable for it. 
Mr L contacted British Gass insurers who arranged for a surveyor to attend in January 2020 
and inspect the property. The surveyor concluded that there is no evidence linking the issue 
Mr L has at his home to the work carried out by British Gas engineers in 2017. So British 
Gas issued a final response letter to Mr L and let him know it would not be accepting liability. 
Mr L was unhappy with British Gass response and so complained to this service. 
Our investigator initially didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. He said the survey arranged by Mr L 
wasnt impartial, as it was carried out by a family member. And while the report carried out 
by British Gas was independent, it just outlined what Mr L thinks happened and how the 
damage should be repaired. Our investigator said he hasnt seen any evidence which 
confirms either way what has actually caused the damage. He said Mr L would need to 
provide evidence that confirmed British Gas was responsible for the damage. And if this was 
provided, he would expect British Gas to review its position. 
Mr L didnt agree with what our investigator said. He said the surveys carried out by British 
Gas werent impartial as they were carried out by contractors who regularly work for British 
Gas. Mr L said the British Gas survey incorrectly referred to a leak at his property. But he 
said his complaint is not about a leak but rather an escape of water in 2017, when the 
engineer attempted to change the valve without first draining the system. Mr L said he 
intended to arrange to have a survey carried out by an independent company to determine 
the origin of the problem. 
Mr L provided this service with a copy of the report completed following the survey he 
arranged in March 2020.
Our investigator issued a second assessment. He said the new report provided by Mr L is 
the most persuasive report and so British Gas is liable for the damage and should put this 
matter right. He said British Gas should also reimburse the cost of the report. 
British Gas responded and said it didnt agree that the report was persuasive. It said the 
leaking pipe identified during the most recent survey seems to have been leaking for a long 
time and has nothing to do with the valve British Gas replaced. It said the photographs 
supplied show the damage to the wallpaper has got worse since October. And this could 
only have got worse because of the recently identified leak. 
British Gas was unhappy with the outcome and so this has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding this complaint. 
The difficulty with this particular complaint is trying to identify what most likely caused the 
damp and mould growth in Mr Ls home. Theres no doubt that the mould exists and needs 
to be dealt with, but I could only ask British Gas to pay for any repairs to Mr Ls home if I was 
satisfied that the work carried out by its engineer in September 2017 caused the damp and 
resultant mould growth. 
In coming to my decision, Ive relied on the British Gas engineers comments following his 
visit in 2017, the report completed following the survey arranged by British Gas insurers in 
January 2020 and the report completed following the survey arranged by Mr L in March 
2020. 
The engineer who visited Mr Ls home in September 2019 said there were currently no leaks 
from any parts British Gas had worked on in 2017 and he thought the mould problems in the 
cupboard below the hot water cylinder could be related to condensation or damp. 
The survey completed by British Gas insurers in January 2020 confirmed that there were 
high moisture levels in the cupboard where the mould was and that the wallpaper had begun 
to come away. The surveyor looked at the cylinder tank but didnt address the issue of what 
might have caused the mould to grow. He simply reiterated what Mr L had told him about 
what he thought had happened.
So neither of the surveys carried out by British Gas identified what was the most likely cause 
of the damp. 
The survey arranged by Mr L showed that there was a minor active leak at the rear of the 
airing cupboard and the surveyor thought this had been going on for some time. The 
surveyor said the leak is too far away to have caused the staining marks on the glass and he 
thought the severity of the damage in the display cabinet would have been caused by a larger volume of water than the leaking joint pipe is currently producing. And he thought this 
would most likely have been from the replacement of the motorised valve, which is directly 
above the area where the damp is, if the system hadnt been drained properly. 
Whats key here is that the surveyor ruled out what he referred to as a minor active leak as 
the cause of the damp, as he said it was too far away. 
The surveyor also took moisture readings of the chimney stack. Those above the hot water 
cylinder produced no conductivity readings, while those taken below it showed moderate 
readings present. So Im satisfied these readings show the damp is localised and unlikely to 
be caused by condensation or damp in the chimney caused by a lack of ventilation. I would 
expect the damp to be more widespread on the chimney stack, perhaps affecting the 
identical cupboard on the other side, if the cause was condensation or damp. 
To sum up, the surveyor thinks the water damage might have happened during the valve 
change, if the system hadnt been drained properly. And Mr L said, when he first brought his 
complaint to this service and so prior to arranging the survey, that he was at home when the 
work was carried out in September 2017 and British Gas did not drain the system before 
changing the valve. 
So, having considered all of the information in the various surveys undertaken, Im satisfied 
that whats most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities, is that Mr Ls 
heating system was not drained of water prior to the valve being changed by the British Gas 
engineer in September 2017 and this caused an escape of water that resulted in mould 
growth over the following two years. Therefore, Im satisfied a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint is for British Gas to cover the cost of repairing the resultant damage. 
The next step is for British Gas and Mr L to liaise and agree a settlement. I dont intend to 
make a finding at this stage about what that settlement should be. I understand that Mr L has 
started the repair work on his home and expects this to finish at the end of the year. British 
Gas should also reimburse Mr L for the cost of the survey he arranged, subject to Mr L 
providing British Gas with evidence of the cost incurred.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require British Gas Services Limited to 
liaise with Mr L to work out an appropriate settlement that covers the cost of repairing the 
damage caused following the work carried out in 2017. I also require British Gas Services 
Limited to reimburse Mr L the cost of the survey he arranged to have carried out on his 
home. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman