DRN-2474740
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) increased her premiums 
each year and missed an annual service under her home emergency policy.
What happened
In 2002, Ms H took out a HomeCare policy with British Gas. The premiums increased each 
year. In 2020, Ms H complained to British Gas because she said that, as a loyal customer, it 
had treated her unfairly. She said that she would have been charged much less as a new 
customer. Ms H asked British Gas to compensate her for the years in which she had 
overpaid. Ms H also said that an annual service had been missed and that she hadnt 
received policy documents since 2017.
When British Gas replied, it said that the premiums had been correctly calculated and were 
based on a range of factors. It said that it had cancelled an annual service appointment and 
told Ms H three days in advance. It offered Ms H £100 compensation based on poor service 
and failing to service the boiler within the contractual year.
So, Ms H complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
British Gas had fairly applied its pricing policy when calculating the premiums and that £100 
was appropriate compensation for the missed annual service and poor customer service.
As Ms H did not agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although Im aware this will disappoint Ms H, I dont uphold this complaint. I 
will explain why.
Looking first at the premium increases, I can see that British Gas explained to Ms H that 
premiums were based on a range of factors, such as where the policyholder lives, their claim 
history and the details of the boiler or central heating system. It also explained that Ms H 
would have paid an introductory price when she first took out the policy and that a price 
change could mean that the introductory price or other discounts no longer applied.
It isnt unusual for a business to offer an introductory price to new customers or for the price 
to increase once this has expired. A business can set its own prices and base this on the risk 
factors that it thinks are relevant to set an appropriate premium. We cant tell an insurer how 
much it should charge. However, we can consider whether it was fair in how it calculated its 
premium.
When Ms H first took out the HomeCare policy, this didnt include cover for her appliances. 
When Ms H later added the appliance cover, I can see that she was charged an additional 
premium for this. I dont think this is unusual and also accounts for a particularly sizeable 
increase in premiums at one point during the lifetime of the policy. However, Im aware that 
the premiums increased each year anyway, although by a smaller amount.
British Gas provided a detailed breakdown of how it calculated Ms Hs premium over a 
number of years. Looking at all of the factors British Gas used to calculate the premiums, I 
havent seen anything that suggests that it was unfair in how it did so. It was based on a 
range of factors that British Gas decided were relevant to calculate an appropriate premium 
for Ms H and took into account Ms Hs circumstances, such as the age of the boiler and the 
number of claims made.
Im aware that Ms H had said that she thinks its unfair that British Gas is able to make the 
level of profit that it does and that the premium increases show that it must overcharge. That 
isnt a matter for this service to consider. We can only look at individual complaints and 
whether that person has been treated fairly based on the circumstances of their case. So, 
Im unable to comment on this.
I also note that the renewal documents said:
Thank you for continuing to place your trust in us. You have been with us for a number of 
years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you want at a better price if you shop 
around. You should also check that the level of cover you've got with us is still right for you, 
and let us know if things have changed e.g. you've had a new boiler installed.
So, I think that the renewal documents explained that Ms H might be able to get a better deal 
by shopping around. However, Im aware that Ms H has said that she didnt receive renewal 
documents since a renewal email sent in 2017. 
British Gas provided this service the renewal documents that it sent. The ones sent by post 
were addressed to Ms H at the correct address. The email version were sent to Ms H at the 
email address that this service has. So I think it is more likely than not that the documents 
were sent to the correct address. However, once the documents left British Gas, it wasnt 
responsible for whether they were delivered. So, if they werent received, I dont think it 
would be fair to hold British Gas responsible for that.
I can also see from British Gas records that, after the policy renewed in 2017, Ms H 
contacted British Gas a few times to deal with issues covered by the policy, including annual 
services. So, I think that Ms H knew that the policy was still in place and that she had the 
opportunity to query the renewal documents or check the price of her policy if she wanted to 
do so. I dont think British Gas had any reason to think that Ms H hadnt received the renewal 
documents.
Ms H also said that British Gas didnt carry out one annual service. British Gas accepted that 
this was the case and offered Ms H £100 compensation for this and its poor customer 
service. I can understand that British Gas rescheduling the appointment would have been 
inconvenient for Ms H and that it meant the annual service took place much later than Ms H 
expected. I think that the compensation British Gas offered was reasonable in the 
circumstances.
So, thinking about all of the above, in my view, I havent seen anything that causes me to 
think that British Gas treated Ms H unfairly in terms of the premiums it charged and I think it 
dealt with the missed service appropriately. As a result, I dont require British Gas to do 
anything further.
My final decisionFor the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman