DRN-3105037
The complaint
Mr B complains that a used car supplied by Black Horse Limited under a finance agreement 
is of unsatisfactory quality.  
What happened
Mr B got this car under a hire purchase agreement (HPA) he took out with Black Horse in 
November 2019. The car had 17,500 miles on the clock when it was supplied and the HPA 
was to run for five years with monthly repayments of nearly £380. 
Within a few days of collection Mr B noticed an unusual vibration through the steering wheel 
and accelerator pedal  which was most prominent when driving at speeds between 30 and 
70 miles an hour. He contacted the supplying dealer and a repair was carried out but the 
problem recurred about a week later. The car went back to the dealer several times over the 
next year or so, but the issue persisted. 
In January 2021 Mr B complained and Black Horse accepted the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality in March the same year. To put things right, Black Horse offered to 
end the HPA and collect the car;
refund the deposit along with six monthly payments;
pay 8% interest on the refunds; and 
pay £300 compensation for distress, inconvenience and loss of enjoyment. 
Mr B had driven over 9,000 miles in the car at that stage and Black Horse thought it was 
reasonable to retain one monthly payment for every 1,000 miles covered for usage - but Mr 
B didnt think that was fair. He says the HPA doesnt mention a deduction for use and he 
was without the car for over three months while the dealer tried to fix it. He acknowledges a 
courtesy car was supplied but this was of a lower specification than his car and he considers 
a refund of half of the payments made would be reasonable. 
Our investigator was satisfied the car was probably of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. As no effective repair was possible, he thought it was reasonable that Mr B should 
be allowed to reject the car and receive a refund. He considered Black Horses offer was fair 
overall and he didnt think it should be required to do more. 
 
Mr B doesnt agree. He says the compensation doesnt equal even one monthly payment. 
He had to go back and forth to the dealer several times and argue before it was accepted 
there was a fault - which was very stressful and inconvenient. He thinks the amount Black 
Horse proposed to deduct for use is arbitrary - and intended to simply reduce the amount 
refunded. He paid about £510 for a service in June 2021 and feels that cost should be 
reimbursed as well. 
Black Horse agreed to refund the cost of the service (as a goodwill gesture) and the 
investigator didnt change his view, so Mr B asked for an ombudsman to review the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr B brings this complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service because Black Horse 
supplied the car under a finance agreement. The role of our service is to resolve disputes 
between financial businesses and their customers informally. And my job here is to consider 
the evidence provided by both parties (without taking sides) and decide what I think is a fair 
and reasonable outcome, in all of the circumstances. In doing so, I must have regard to 
relevant law and industry guidance (amongst other things).
Im satisfied the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant and Black Horse was required 
to ensure that this car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Theres no dispute 
that the car didnt meet the appropriate standard. Black Horse has already offered to take it 
back and provide a refund. So, the only issue for me to determine is whether the terms of the 
offer are fair and reasonable  or if Black Horse should do more to put things right.   
I think Black Horses offer to end the HPA, collect the car and refund the deposit (plus 
interest) seems fair. Thats what our service would usually require in this sort of situation. I 
also think it was reasonable of Black Horse to agree to reimburse Mr B for the service he 
paid for in June 2021. 
I appreciate Mr B feels £300 isnt enough compensation for everything hes been through 
he highlights the poor service he got from the dealer after he reported faults, in particular. 
I understand Mr Bs strength of feeling about what happened. But, Im looking at Black 
Horses obligations arising out of the finance agreement in this decision. And Im unable to 
reasonably hold Black Horse responsible for the dealers poor after sales service.
Im satisfied that Mr B had to return to the dealer multiple times for checks and repair 
attempts because the car had faults present. I have no doubt that must have been frustrating 
and inconvenient for him. And I think driving the car with vibration present was probably 
stressful as well. I consider Black Horses offer to pay £300 compensation - for the loss of 
enjoyment/distress and inconvenience Mr B experienced as a result of being supplied with a 
faulty car - is reasonable. This is in line with the sort of award our service has made in 
similar cases. Its a bit more that I would probably have required Black Horse to pay Mr B, if 
it had not already made the offer. And Im not persuaded that I can fairly require Black Horse 
to pay more compensation.
That leaves the question of the use Mr B had of the car. Im satisfied he was able to travel 
about 9,500 miles by the time Black Horse agreed to take the car back - in March this year. I 
accept the use Mr B had of the vehicle was probably impaired somewhat - by the faults 
present. And I can see the car was off the road for several weeks for investigations and 
repairs. But, Im satisfied the dealer provided a courtesy car during this time (albeit this was 
not of the same standard) so Mr B was kept mobile. 
Working out whats fair in this situation isnt a scientific exercise. I think its right that Mr B 
should pay for the use he had of the car. I appreciate he feels a refund of half the payments 
made would be fair. But, having considered the likely degree of impairment and the use 
overall, Im not persuaded this is reasonable. When Black Horse made the offer last March, 
it meant Mr B would have six payments refunded. I think that fair  its more than I would 
have required at that time for impaired use. Mr B hasnt told us about the cars current mileage. Im satisfied Black Horses offer (to 
refund the monthly payments made less one payment for every 1,000 miles) means hell pay 
a reasonable amount for every mile covered and have any remaining payments refunded. I 
accept thats not set out in the HPA  which says Mr B should pay nearly £380 every month. 
But, I think its a fair reflection of the use Mr B had of the car and I cant reasonably require 
Black Horse to provide a bigger refund.     
For the reasons Ive given, I find Black Horses offer to be fair and reasonable overall. Im 
satisfied this means Mr B wont have to keep a faulty car, he pays a reasonable amount for 
the use he had and hes fairly compensated for any associated impaired use, distress and 
inconvenience. I cant reasonably require Black Horse to do more than its offered in these 
circumstances so Im not going to ask it to do anything else. I realise this decision may come 
as a disappointment to Mr B  but hes not obliged to accept what Ive said, in which case it 
remains open to him to pursue the matter by any other means available. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I find the offer made by Black Horse to settle this 
complaint is fair in all of the circumstances. So, my decision is Black Horse Limited should (if 
it hasnt done so already):-
1. end the finance agreement and take the car back at no additional cost to Mr B;
2. refund the deposit Mr B paid of £8,239.30;
3. refund all payments made towards the HPA less one monthly payment for every 
1,000 miles covered after supply;
4. pay interest on the refunds above at 8% simple a year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
5. refund the cost of the service Mr B paid for in June 2021; and 
6. pay Mr B £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
If Black Horse considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off and give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman