DRN-3042738
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the response of Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), 
following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974. 
Background
Mr and Mrs S were contacted by a company Ill refer to as P that supplied and installed 
solar panel systems. Following a meeting, Mr and Mrs S agreed to enter into a contract with 
P for it to supply and install a system at their home. To fund this Mr and Mrs S also agreed to 
enter into a 15 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr and Mrs S made a claim under section 75 of the CCA through their representative. The 
representative said that P had told Mr and Mrs S that the solar panels would be self-funded 
and that the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) 
income. But that hadnt happened. Instead, the monthly loan repayments had been much 
higher than the income.
In its final response letter, Shawbrook said that it didnt think the benefits of the solar panels 
had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs S. Unhappy with this response, they referred the 
complaint to our service.
During the course of our investigation Shawbrook made an offer to resolve the complaint. 
Shawbrook offered to calculate the potential savings and income to Mr and Mrs S over the 
term of the loan. It then said it would restructure the loan so that they didnt pay any more 
than this over the 15 year term of the loan. It also offered to pay Mr and Mrs S £200 to 
recognise the trouble and upset caused.
Shawbrook gave Mr and Mrs S four options as to how they would like the loan restructured. 
They were:
a) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early;
b) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they pay 
a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term;
c) The overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs S, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate 
amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, 
with the remainder being paid direct to Mr and Mrs S, and they continue to make the 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or
d) The overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs S, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate 
amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase 
with the remainder being paid direct to Mr and Mrs S, and they pay a new, lower 
monthly payment until the end of the loan term.
Our investigator felt that the offer was fair. Mr and Mrs S didnt. In summary they said 
through their representative that they should have the option of accepting a higher payment 
with an increased loan balance. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Shawbrook nor Mr and Mrs S dispute that the benefits of the solar panel system 
were misrepresented. As a result, this decision will deal with what I consider to be fair 
compensation. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between consumers and businesses 
providing financial services, fairly and reasonably with minimum formality. In cases like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular circumstances.
Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs S should be able to rescind the contract with P and be 
refunded all payments they have made to Shawbrook, minus any financial benefits they may 
have received from the solar panel system. However, here, I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar panels from their home. Rather, I think the 
fair outcome here is to put Mr and Mrs S in a position where the panels are self-funding over 
the original term of the loan. By allowing them to keep the panels, I am satisfied that they are 
likely to benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments after the term of the loan has 
finished.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative says that they were told that the loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT. So, Ive considered whether any electricity savings should be taken into 
account when arriving at fair compensation.
I believe that Mr and Mrs S were misled into thinking that the solar panels would be self-
funding and so on that basis I need to decide fair compensation. When thinking about that 
question, I think its fair to take account of the electricity generated by the solar panel units. 
On the one hand Mr and Mrs S have to pay their loan and for any electricity used in addition 
to that generated by the panels; on the other hand, they can off-set those payments by the 
FIT payments and the savings associated with the electricity generated by the panels. It 
would be unfair to ignore the electricity generated and used by Mr and Mrs S when 
calculating fair compensation.
I have carefully considered the methodology Shawbrook has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar system. This methodology has been shared with Mr 
and Mrs Ss representative.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future performance of 
Mr and Mrs Ss solar panel system. 
Shawbrook has outlined that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr and 
Mrs S solar panels it will use a number of assumptions. These include the proportion of 
energy generated by Mr and Mrs Ss solar panels that they are expected to use rather than 
buying electricity from their energy provider, electricity price inflation, the degradation rate 
and the estimated retail price index (RPI). 
Based on the available evidence, Im of the view that these appear reasonable. As an 
example, the actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem to be far from the assumed figure. In summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions that have been used by 
Shawbrook provide a fair and reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
By making the panels self-funding, Mr and Mrs Ss monthly repayments will reduce, meaning 
that they would have previously been paying more each month, resulting in an overpayment. 
And as Mr and Mrs S would have been deprived of the monthly overpayment, I would expect 
a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the overpayment to the date of 
settlement. 
Ive also noted that neither party disagrees with the principles of the proposed redress to put 
things right. Therefore, Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs S should have the option of 
receiving the full refund of their overpayments and for their loan balance to increase. 
Shawbrook has explained that, when it has restructured the loan to ensure that the total 
amount payable over the term matches the expected benefits, if it were to refund all 
overpayments made, this would cause the outstanding loan balance to be higher than it 
currently is.
My understanding is that this is because, under the original loan terms, the monthly 
payments were predominantly paying off the interest that was being accrued as opposed to 
reducing the outstanding capital for the earlier period of the loan. This means when 
Shawbrook has restructured the loan, if it were to return all the overpayments made, the 
outstanding loan balance would increase.
Shawbrook has said it doesnt think it is appropriate to do this as it would, in effect, increase 
the debt owed by Mr and Mrs S. The representative has said that the decision on whether Mr 
and Mrs Ss debt should increase or not should be down to their choice as opposed to what 
Shawbrook has said.
Ive carefully considered the views put forward by all parties. Having done so, I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable for the outstanding loan balance to be increased beyond what 
it currently is.
I say this, for broadly the reasons that have already been given by Shawbrook. If all the 
overpayments were returned, this would increase the overall amount owed and therefore 
increase the level of debt that Mr and Mrs S are in. And I dont think consider that to be fair 
and reasonable.
So, whilst Im satisfied that the four options discussed above are fair, Shawbrook should 
ensure that if, Mr and Mrs S choose option (c) or (d), the appropriate portion of the 
overpayments is used to ensure the loan balance does not increase beyond what it currently 
is.
Im satisfied that Shawbrooks offer to let Mr and Mrs S have the following selection of 
options as to how they would like their overpayments to be used is fair:
(a) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they 
continue to make their current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early;
(b) The overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and they pay 
a new, lower monthly payment until the end of the loan term;
(c) The overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs S, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate 
amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, 
with the remainder being paid direct to Mr and Mrs S, who continue to make their 
current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early; or
(d) The overpayments are returned to Mr and Mrs S, but Shawbrook uses an appropriate 
amount of the overpayments to ensure the outstanding loan balance doesnt increase, 
with the remainder being paid direct to Mr and Mrs S, who pay a new, lower monthly 
payment until the end of the loan term.I am satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mr and Mrs S 
first contacted Shawbrook that their claim should have been upheld. The fact that this did not 
happen undoubtedly caused them trouble and upset and consequently Ill make an award of 
£200 to cover this.
My final decision
My final decision is that Mr and Mrs Ss complaint should be upheld. In full and final 
settlement of it, Shawbrook Bank Limited should:
(a) allow Mr and Mrs S to keep the solar panels;
(b) estimate the potential savings and incomes to Mr and Mrs S from the panels over the 15 
year term of the loan and rework it so they pay no more than this, where possible using 
Mr and Mrs Ss electricity bills and FIT statements to do this;
(c) add 8% simple interest to any overpayment made from the date the overpayment was 
made to date of settlement;
(d) allow Mr and Mrs S to decide how theyd like their overpayments to be used, using the 
four options described above; and
(e) pay Mr and Mrs S £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs S how much its taken off. It should 
also give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can claim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman