DRN-3988609
The complaint
Miss C complains that Brazier Consulting Services Ltd havent pursued her complaint about 
the affordability of a payday loan.
What happened
In 2020 Miss C said shed authorised Brazier to pursue an affordability complaint against her 
lender for a payday loan. But despite asking them for updates they didnt respond. She said 
she found that the lender had gone into administration. In mid-2022 she spoke to the 
administrators who she said told her that the claims had all been settled by April 2022.    
Miss C complained to Brazier.
Brazier said Miss C had asked them to look into her claim in 2019, and theyd submitted her 
complaint to the lender in May 2019. They said they continued to ask the lender for updates 
and sought identification from Miss C when requested by the lender. Brazier said the lender 
went into administration in October 2019 and theyd submitted her details for the 
administrators to progress her complaint. In August 2022 after Miss C again asked them for 
an update, theyd told her that there wasnt now anything more they could do
Miss C wasnt happy with Braziers response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said that while Brazier had submitted Miss Cs complaint. After the lender 
went into administration, theyd provided a claim portal for Miss Cs details, including her 
bank details to be added so that any complaint could be considered. He said Brazier hadnt 
shown theyd added Miss Cs details to the portal and so shed missed the opportunity for 
her complaint to be considered. He said Brazier should compensate Miss C £250 for this.
Brazier didnt agree, they said theyd done all they could for Miss C and asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Miss C instructed Brazier to act on her behalf in making an affordability 
complaint with her lender. Brazier feel strongly that they have done whats expected of them 
in pursuing Miss Cs affordability complaint. While Miss C feels that her complaint, if 
pursued, would have meant shed have received compensation. I cant know or speculate 
whether  Miss C would or wouldnt have received any compensation as I cant know whether her 
complaint would or wouldnt have been successful as there are several factors that the 
lender/administrator would have needed to consider. 
In reaching my decision Ive considered what most likely happened and whether I think 
Brazier has acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Miss C.
In May 2019 Miss C signed a letter of authority (LoA) that instructed Brazier to pursue an 
affordability complaint about a payday loan with her lender. Ive considered Braziers records 
and can see the LoA was submitted to Miss Cs lender the same month. In August 2019 the 
lender asked that Miss C provide them with proof of identification. And I can see that Brazier 
asked Miss C for the required documentation and this was submitted to the lender later in 
the same month. 
In August 2020 the lender told Brazier that theyd gone into administration in October 2019. 
They also gave instructions to Brazier, as Miss Cs representative for her open affordability 
complaint, on how to progress Miss Cs complaint. They said her details needed to be 
updated and they provided a link for this to be done so that the complaint could be assessed 
by the administrators. 
In February 2021 Miss C messaged Brazier as shed been told by the administrators that her 
details hadnt been fully submitted. And without these they would look to close her complaint. 
Brazier responded to Miss C saying theyd submitted the details and that as the portal was 
now closed, they couldnt log anything on to it. They told Miss C they would respond once 
they had a decision about her complaint. But I think without Miss Cs up to date details the 
administrators wouldnt progress her complaint. And it was a further 12 months when Miss C 
found all the complaints had been paid out that she again had contact with Brazier.
The Claims Management Conduct of Business (CMCOB) provides guidance to claims 
management companies  (CMC) like Brazier. Chapter six provides guidance about - Keeping 
the customers and others informed.
CMCOB 6.1.4 says:
(1) The firm must pass on to the customer:
(a) any information received from a third party which is addressed to, or meant for, the 
attention of that customer; and
(b) any request received by the firm from a third party for the supply of information by 
the customer that the firm does not already hold.
(2) The firm must pass on the information or request:
(a) promptly, and in any event within ten business days of receiving the information or 
request; and
(b) in a durable medium.
CMCOB 6.1.6 says:
the firm becoming aware of any information relating to the claim which is likely to have an 
effect on the prospects of the claim succeeding
CMCOB 6.1.9  says:
A firm must provide each customer with an update on the progress of the claim at least 
once every six months, in a durable medium.
While Braziers records show that the Lender correspondence was uploaded in August 
2020 I cant see any record of Miss Cs details having been uploaded to the link provided by 
her lender. Neither can I see any request from Brazier to check with Miss C that the details needed were up to date. So, Im not persuaded that Brazier followed the lenders instructions 
and I think this is supported by the administrators as they werent able to progress Miss Cs 
complaint. 
I cant see Miss C was updated about her claim after July 2021 until she messaged Brazier 
for an update in July 2022. She said shed found from the administrators that all the claims 
had been paid out several months before. Brazier responded by saying as the lender had 
gone into administration there was nothing more they could do.
From reviewing Braziers records I dont think they have fully complied with the CMCOB 
guidance. They havent kept Miss C regularly updated; I cant see that they informed her 
about the change in the status of her complaint after the lender went into administration. And 
I havent seen that they checked the details they had for Miss C with her to see if they were 
up to date. 
So, I dont think Brazier acted fairly and reasonably in their actions with Miss C with the 
progression of her affordability complaint.
Putting things right
As I mentioned previously, I cant know if Miss Cs affordability complaint would have been 
successful. But I havent seen any record that shows Miss Cs up to date details had been   
uploaded to the claim portal link. And I think this means Miss C has lost the opportunity for 
her affordability complaint to be considered.  So, I think Brazier should compensate Miss C 
by paying her £250 for loss of opportunity and for their poor service. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Brazier Consulting Services Ltd to pay Miss C £250 for loss 
of opportunity and for their poor service. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 March 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman