DRN-3750833
The complaint
Miss H complains that Dewhurst Torevell & Co Limited gave her unsuitable investment 
advice.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by her court-appointed deputy who Ill refer to as 
Mr L. Mr L says Dewhurst Torevell should refund its initial advice and on-going management 
fees and compensate Miss H for the failure to utilise her annual ISA allowance.
What happened
In 2012 Miss H received a monetary court award and, due to her mental capacity, a deputy 
was appointed by the Court of Protection to deal with her property and affairs on her behalf. 
The deputy sought financial advice for Miss H from Dewhurst Torevell.
In brief summary, the deputy initially said there was £1.5million available for long-term 
investment. After the initial advice was given, and the deputy had sought further information 
from Miss Hs family, he decided a reduced sum - £1.2million - should be invested. He said 
Miss H needed an annual income from her investments of £30,000, whilst preserving and 
growing the capital investment. Miss H had no other sources of income.
Dewhurst Torevell recommended £800,000 was invested equally between two investment 
bonds, which would provide the annual income of £30,000; £300,000 in a portfolio of unit 
trusts held on a third-party platform; and £100,000 to be placed in a bank deposit account for 
emergency capital expenditure and future investment opportunities.
Dewhurst Torevell charged an initial advice fee of £11,000 and then an annual management 
fee of 0.5% on the non-cash investments. It agreed to review the investments on at least an 
annual basis to ensure they still met Miss Hs needs and objectives.
Dewhurst Torevell managed the investments, on an advisory basis, until September 2016 
when the advisor moved to a new business and the deputy transferred Miss Hs investments 
to that new business.
In September 2020 Mr L was appointed as Miss Hs new deputy. Having reviewed her 
finances, he complained about the advice and service Dewhurst Torevell had given. In 
summary he complained that:
No rationale was given for the amount to be retained as cash.
The tax treatment of the investment bonds made them unsuitable for Miss H. And hers 
was the sole life insured which wasnt appropriate.
Initially an offshore bond was recommended, but this did not feature in the revised 
advice, with no rationale given.
The attitude to risk wasnt properly assessed  the deputys attitude was assessed, 
rather than Miss Hs, and the investment did not reflect the agreed low to medium risk 
approach.
Miss H was eligible to invest in a cash ISA when she was 17 and a stocks and shares 
ISA when she was 18. The failure to utilise the annual ISA allowances meant Miss H lost 
out on several years of ISA tax benefits.
Dewhurst Torevell charged an annual management fee, but it didnt provide advice after 
2012.
No cash flow modelling was carried out to ensure the investments would meet Miss Hs 
income requirements over the long-term.
And he said he wanted Dewhurst Torevell to refund all of its fees to compensate Miss H.
Dewhurst Torevell didnt agree that the advice had been unsuitable. It said that from 2012 to 
2016, the portfolio had generated non-taxable income of £111,250 and had grown from 
£1.1million to £1.4million. Whilst the ISA allowance hadnt been utilised, a financial loss 
hadnt been incurred and substantial capital growth was achieved. It said it would appear 
that one regular valuation, due in April 2016, hadnt been sent, but that otherwise half yearly 
valuations and commentary were provided.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
advice provided met Miss Hs agreed objectives and that the tax situation of the investment 
bonds was covered in detail when the advice was given.
Mr L didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
Miss H was a non-taxpayer. The selection of two investment bonds meant she was 
committed to a 20% income tax charge deducted at source and deferred a further liability 
to income tax which she would otherwise not have to pay. This annual loss could have 
been avoided and a substantial cost was incurred in liquidating the bonds to mitigate the 
increasing future liability to income tax.
Multiple lives should have been assured to give the policyholders executors flexibility in 
the event of Miss Hs death.
Miss H couldnt open a stocks and shares ISA when the advice was initially given 
because of her age. But this shouldve been incorporated in the on-going strategy. Shes 
lost the benefit of several years ISA allowances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and in my 
own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to respond 
to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on 
every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
For ease, Ive used sub-headings to cover each of the main complaint points:
Cash reserve
The amount available for investment did not reflect the entirety of Miss Hs wealth. Shed 
received considerably more than the £1.2 million that was invested. I find it was reasonable for Dewhurst Torevell to rely on Miss Hs deputy, who was responsible for all of her finances, 
when he told it how much money she had available for a medium to longer term investment.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Dewhurst Torevell to recommend placing £100,000 (out 
of the £1.2 million) in a 95-day notice deposit account. It had previously explained the 
advantages of keeping some of the investment in a deposit account, including to take 
advantage of any future investment opportunities. 
Investment bonds
Dewhurst Torevell was obliged to provide advice on suitable investments to meet Miss Hs 
agreed objectives. Whilst it was important to maintain, and hopefully grow, the capital value 
of the investment, Miss H needed the investment to provide her with an annual income of 
£30,000. Im satisfied that the investment bonds met this objective. 
Dewhurst Torevell wasnt obliged to provide tax advice. Im satisfied that it drew the deputys 
attention to the tax implications of the investment bonds and that it was for him to seek 
independent tax advice if he needed it.
Mr L says it wasnt suitable for Miss H to be the only life assured. Miss H was the sole policy 
holder and had no dependents. In these circumstances it would be unusual for a second life 
to be assured. But this was an option. Im satisfied that Dewhurst Torevell gave the deputy 
the opportunity to discuss the appropriateness of a second life assured. It said:
The life or lives assured have no ownership rights, but by including more than one life 
assured it may give the trustees greater flexibility in the future. In this instance I believe the 
simplest and most practical approach would be to have [Miss H] as the sole life assured. 
This would mean that on [Miss Hs] death the investment bonds would automatically be 
surrendered, and their value paid out as cash. If you would prefer to have the option to retain 
the investments on [Miss Hs] death then please let me know and we can discuss options.
I dont find the advice and information provided by Dewhurst Torevell to be inappropriate in 
the circumstances. Having been given the opportunity to think about this, and to discuss it in 
detail, and the deputy agreed to go ahead with Miss H as the sole life assured.
Offshore bond removed from recommendations
The recommendations initially provided by Dewhurst Torevell were based on an investment 
of a larger sum - £1.5 million. And included a recommendation to invest £400,000 in an 
offshore bond. Im satisfied that Dewhurst Torevell gave an adequate explanation for 
removing this from its final recommendations when the amount available for investment had 
decreased. It said:
The terms attached to the [offshore bond] are not as attractive and therefore although this 
investment offers greater flexibility in the early years, if we were to proceed with a reduced 
investment amount, I believe it would take many years, if ever, for the potential returns from 
this product (even allowing for the tax benefits of offshore investment) to exceed those from 
the equivalent investments in the [onshore bonds]
I dont find the exclusion of an offshore bond, in the circumstances, was unsuitable.
Assessment of attitude to risk
Ive not seen exactly how the attitude to risk was assessed here but its clear a reasonably 
detailed discussion about risk took place as this is reflected in the advice letters. Miss H lacked the mental capacity to understand investment risk and the deputy was required to 
make decisions in her best interests. There is reference in the advice letters to the deputys 
attitude to risk. But I dont find this means Dewhurst Torevell wrongly used the deputys 
personal attitude to risk to decide its investment advice. I think its more likely than not that, 
following a discussion, it was agreed that it was appropriate for Miss Hs investment to be 
exposed to a low to medium risk. This would not seem unsuitable, based on what we know 
about Miss Hs circumstances at the time.
Im satisfied that the investment was suitable for a low to medium risk investor. Dewhurst 
Torevell recommended £800,000 was invested in two UK investment bonds; £300,000 was 
invested in a portfolio of unit trusts; and £100,000 was deposited in a 95-day deposit 
account. The underlying investment in the bonds and unit trusts provided exposure to fixed 
interest as well as equity investment. And, whilst some of the equities might be categorised 
as higher risk, Im satisfied that the investment was sufficiently diversified to ensure the 
overall mix met a low to medium risk profile.
Failure to utilise ISA allowance
When Dewhurst Torevell gave its initial advice, Miss H wasnt 18 so wasnt eligible for a 
stocks and shares ISA. Dewhurst Torevells suitability letter said:
In [Miss Hs] circumstances, it should be possible to manage these investments tax 
efficiently and over the longer term by utilising Miss Hs capital gains tax allowance. I think it 
would be sensible planning to realise capital gains to fund ISA contributions in future years.
Mr L complains that Dewhurst Torevell failed to invest in an ISA for Miss H and that she 
missed out on the tax benefits.
I find that the suitability letter was reasonably clear  the advice was that, over time, any 
capital gains from the unit trust investment would be realised and used to fund an ISA. 
I dont find this to be an inappropriate approach and I dont find it unreasonable that capital 
gains werent realised in the first few years of the initial investment. Its also important to note 
that, until the introduction of the dividend allowance in April 2016, the tax treatment of 
dividends within an ISA was the same as for investments held outside of an ISA. So the tax 
benefits of ISAs were limited to capital gains, and the annual allowance was less than it is 
now. Taking into account Miss H had an annual capital gains tax allowance, the ISA benefits 
for Miss H in the early years of her investment would have been limited.
Failure to provide a cash flow model over the medium to long term
I dont find there was any specific requirement for Dewhurst Torevell to provide a cash flow 
model as part of its advice. Miss H required an annual income of £30,000 from her 
investment. Dewhurst Torevells recommendations met this objective, whilst aiming to grow 
the capital value. As noted earlier, the cash reserve could have been accessed for any 
emergency or unforeseen income requirement. And, if the annual income requirement 
changed over time, there was clearly scope for the income level to increase, as set out in the 
suitability letter. The income requirement was reviewed on at least an annual basis and the 
deputy confirmed it remained suitable for Miss Hs circumstances.
Failure to provide on-going advice, but fees charged
Dewhurst Torevells agreement required it to carry out a review on at least an annual basis 
to ensure the portfolio remained suitable for Miss Hs needs. And it was the deputys 
responsibility to tell Dewhurst Torevell about any change in circumstances that might require a change in her investments. Im satisfied that Dewhurst Torevell carried out the agreed 
annual reviews, and recommended changes in the underlying investments from time to time.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont find Dewhurst Torevell provided unsuitable investment 
advice. And that it acted in line with the agreed terms and conditions by reviewing the 
investments on at least an annual basis to ensure they continued to meet Miss Hs 
objectives and risk profile.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman