DRN-3206759
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money delayed sending him a 
cheque when he closed his Stocks & Shares Individual Savings Account (ISA). He says this 
prevented him from re-investing elsewhere. 
Mr S is represented by his son, who is also referred to as Mr S. For ease of reference, all 
references to Mr S (the complainant) will include submissions and evidence provided by his 
son acting on his behalf. 
All dates are in 2021, unless otherwise stated.
What happened
Mr S opened an ISA with Virgin on 31 August. On 17 September, he instructed Virgin to fully 
withdraw funds from his ISA and to pay funds to him via a cheque. This was a Friday, Mr S 
said he was expecting to receive the cheque by 22 September, two working days later. But 
when he didnt receive the cheque by that time, he called Virgin to query this. 
Mr S asked for the funds to be transferred into a bank account, but Virgin told him he would 
need to provide further documentation via post. Mr S said he needed the funds for a specific 
purpose and at the time, a cheque sounded like the quickest way to receive them. 
On 22 September, several calls were made between Mr S and Virgin. During some of these 
calls Mr S expressed his dissatisfaction that the cheque hadnt been received and so he 
complained. He said he wanted to know what was happening as other members of his family 
had received cheques for withdrawals placed at the same time within a short timescale. 
 
Virgin rejected Mr Ss complaint. It said there was activity on the account that triggered 
additional security checks which were needed before funds could be released. 
Once necessary checks were complete a cheque was sent by recorded delivery on 27 
September. It apologised for the inconvenience the delays had caused but Virgin didnt think 
it had acted unreasonably.
Unhappy with the response, Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Amongst other 
things, he said he was unhappy because at no point was he asked why he needed the 
funds. He said the cheque had been held without informing him of the delay and it took 
Virgin a long time to investigate. 
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. In summary, he said the 
security checks carried out were necessary as part of Virgins regulatory and legal duties.
Mr S disagreed. He maintains the delays werent acceptable and that he lost out on other 
investment opportunities due to the delays  he considers he should be compensated for 
that. He also said that Virgin provided a poor customer service.
 
So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will not be upholding Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Virgin has said that it accepts there was some delay in sending the cheque. But that this was 
justifiable due to its security process being triggered by certain activity on Mr Ss account. 
Virgin has explained that under normal circumstances payments would be released the next 
working day. So, this does suggest that if matters had gone in the normal way, Mr S would 
have received his cheque by 22 September. 
Banks and other financial institutions must comply with various regulatory and legal duties 
such as Anti-Money Laundering Regulations. It will be for a business to decide how best to 
meet these regulations. Sometimes this can lead to delays and the business cant always 
give specific reasons why this is. But I would still expect a business-like Virgin to apply any 
processes it has fairly. 
In this case, Virgin has clearly told Mr S why it carried out further security checks  looking at 
what it has said, I dont think these reasons are unreasonable. Due to certain activity on 
Mr Ss account, this triggered Virgins security process and when Mr S called to find out why 
there was a delay, it did let him know, broadly, the reasons for this. 
So, I think Virgin has acted fairly and reasonable in terms of its communication with Mr S 
and the reasons for delaying sending out his payments.
Further, whilst there was a delay, this was two working days longer than Mr S was expecting 
 he was expecting the cheque by Wednesday, 22 September and he received the cheque 
by Monday, 27 September. So, whilst its unfortunate there was a delay of two working days, 
given the checks Virgin needed to carry out, on balance, I dont think this unreasonably 
delayed matters.  
Mr S says that Virgins actions prevented him from investing elsewhere as he didnt have 
access to the cash previously held in his ISA. Whilst I appreciate the delay may have 
prevented Mr S from investing elsewhere, as I say, I dont think Virgin has acted 
unreasonably so I cant fairly hold it responsible for any losses Mr S says he suffered. 
Mr S said that Virgin took a long time investigating his concerns, but Im satisfied that the 
response sent to Mr S on 28 September and subsequently on 11 October, was not 
unreasonably delayed. I also know that he thinks Virgin provided him with a poor customer 
service. But overall, Ive not seen any persuasive evidence of Virgin acting unreasonably. 
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr S will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman