DRN-3418570
The complaint
Ms R, through her representative, complains that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G), lent to her 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Ms R was approved for a loan of £250 on 20 November 2019 repayable over 18 months at 
£57.14 each month. Ms R repaid the loan early in February 2021.
In its final response letter, L2G explained that despite Ms R declaring an income of £2,900 
and outgoings of around £900, it had used the records it discovered and applied them and 
used different figures. Those were that her minimum income figure was £1,879 and it 
increased her expenditure figures to £1,532 and added a 10% additional sum to act as a 
margin. That came to about £1,685, which, on the minimum income figure it had decided to 
use left Ms R with around £194 each month. So, in its FRL, L2G said that the £57.14 a 
month for the loan was affordable.
One of our adjudicators thought that the credit search results L2G had obtained meant that 
she was in a cycle of debt and also that based on her income and expenditure, Ms R paid a 
significant proportion of her income to her existing credit commitments. So, our adjudicator 
thought that there was a significant risk Ms R would not have been able to meet her existing 
commitments. Our adjudicator thought that this indicated Ms R was having financial 
difficulties and so not likely able to meet the £57 a month for this loan.
Our adjudicator also pointed out that Ms R had taken four high cost short term loans over a 
nine-month period before she had applied for this loan. And in our adjudicators view this 
suggested she was struggling to meet her monthly commitments. So, she thought that L2G 
ought to put things right for Ms R.
L2G disagreed and the unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision giving reasons why I considered that Ms Rs complaint should not be 
upheld. I gave time for both parties to respond.
Ms R has said shes nothing further to send us and L2G has agreed with my provisional 
findings. So, its time to issue my final decision in the same terms as set out in the provisional 
decision, copies of which both parties have. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, what I need to 
consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are 
whether L2G completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms R 
would be able to repay in a sustainable way? And, if not, would those checks have shown 
that Ms R wouldve been able to do so?
If I determine that L2G did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Ms R and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
The rules and regulations in place required L2G to carry out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment of Ms Rs ability to make the repayments under this agreement. This 
assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so L2G had to think about whether repaying the 
loan would be sustainable and/or cause significant adverse consequences for Ms R. In 
practice this meant that L2G had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt 
cause Ms R undue difficulty or significant adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for L2G to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Ms R. Checks also had 
to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the circumstances of the consumer (e.g. 
their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the same 
customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult 
to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Rs complaint.
Ms Rs representative has referred to the fact that as well as proportionate checks it ought to 
have asked Ms R if she had a dependent and/or suffered from any long term illness. It said: 
You didn't ask our client if they had a pre-existing medical condition, and therefore couldn't 
have taken it into account when assessing their affordability. Therefore, not taking in 
consideration the effect it may have on our client ability to repay the loan.
Ms Rs representative has mentioned that Ms Rs mental health deteriorated. I thought about 
all these points too.
The application details I have seen does ask Ms R if she had dependents and her answer 
was 0. I do not see the correlation between Ms Rs loan requirements and any pre-existing 
medical condition Ms R may have had. Added to which Ms Rs representative has not 
informed us if that was relevant in Ms Rs case and so I discount this complaint point.No evidence has been provided of any mental health impact this loan from L2G may have 
had on Ms R and so without evidence I make no finding, and since issuing my provisional 
decision Ms R has sent nothing further and so my view is the same. 
Considering Ms R was a new customer to L2G and it was a relatively low value loan then, 
even with an 18 month term, the checks L2G did were proportionate. And I note from the 
account notes Ive been sent by L2G that Ms R asked for the early settlement figure to pay 
off the loan several times over the months that she had it. Added to which I did see that
Ms R repaid it early. One supposition is that Ms R always intended to pay it off early. Ms R 
has given no further explanation about this since issuing my provisional decision and so 
I make no additional finding on this point. 
Having seen what L2G did to calculate the income, expenditure, and affordability then 
I agree with L2G that the £250 loan would have looked affordable.
I have reviewed the credit search results L2G obtained about Ms R just before approving the 
loan and I do not think that the record showed financial difficulties or a likelihood of not being 
able to repay the loan at £57 a month. Ms R may have had two credit cards close to or at 
their limits, but she had two others at zero balance and one which appeared to have been in 
credit. The limit on that card was £3,500. The overall picture on credit cards was that Ms R 
had credit available to her before she applied to L2G for this loan. The summary at the 
beginning of the credit search results shows that the most recent percentage utilisation of 
her credit cards was 24%. L2G knew this.
The credit search results show two loans outstanding costing Ms R £249 a month and £185 
a month and both had good payment records. The defaults and/or arrears showing in the 
record results are either historic data or related to loans which had been settled. And I do not
consider that L2G needed to be concerned about the payday loans she had paid off.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ms Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman