DRN-3442915
The complaint
Mr L and Ms L complain that Accord Mortgages Limited wouldnt provide them with a new 
mortgage that would allow them to move to a new house and port their existing mortgage 
product. Instead they went to another lender which provided them with the mortgage they 
wanted but they had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). 
What happened
Mr L and Ms L had a mortgage with Accord. The balance was about £290,000 at the end of 
2020. In October 2020 although they were thinking about moving to a new house, they took 
out a two-year fixed rate product with Accord but as it could be ported, they felt didnt think 
they would have to pay the ERC. At the time they spoke with Accord which indicated that 
they could get a potential mortgage of £381,000. In November 2020 they put their house on 
the market and in advance of a property search got an agreement in principle (AIP) which 
showed potential lending of £342,000. Although disappointed by this Mr L and Ms L looked 
for a property that could be afforded with this level of borrowing. They made an offer on a 
property and did a full mortgage application but found that the available mortgage had 
further reduced to £301,736. 
Mr L and Ms L were able to get a mortgage elsewhere for the loan they wanted and wonder 
why Accord couldnt do the same. To buy the house, they wanted they have had to pay the 
ERC of £7169.34.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that 
although AIPs were issued this lending wasnt guaranteed and Accord was entitled to make 
its assessment following a full interview and consideration of affordability and credit. Mr L 
and Ms L disagreed saying in summary that Accord shouldnt have reduced the amount that 
they would lend to them as they had disclosed their commitments when they got the AIP. Mr 
L and Ms L also question the amount of the ERC that they had to pay.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L and Ms L hoped to be able to port their mortgage product to a new property and avoid 
the ERC. To do so they needed Accord to approve a mortgage on the new property. So, in 
advance they got an AIP which gave them confidence they could do so. But when they made 
a formal application the amount they could borrow was reduced and they couldnt manage to 
buy the property with the amount on offer from Accord and they went elsewhere. 
Accord set out to explain in its letter of 2 February 2021 why the amount in AIP differed from 
the lower figure it felt able to lend following the full mortgage assessment. The letter notes 
differences in the salary figures between what they were told and what was verified, Mr Ls 
self-employed income was disallowed, and the credit card balances were substantially 
higher. I also note that Ms L appears to have had a discussion with the underwriter as to why 
the offer of mortgage was reduced from the AIP.
It's not my role to decide whether Accord should loan money to Ms L and Mr L but to see if 
the application was fairly considered. It does seem that Accord gave fair consideration to the 
application and provided a reasonable explanation to Mr L and Ms L as to why the mortgage 
offer would have been lower than the AIP. Although a different lender approved their 
application, I have to accept that different lenders have different lending criteria and 
processes and I cant fairly require Accord to base its lending approvals on those of another 
lender.
The other issue is the amount of the ERC. The way the ERC is calculated is set out in clause 
7 of the mortgage product offer. There is a charge of 2.5% of the outstanding balance in the 
mortgage was redeemed before 31 January 2022 and 1.5 % if redeemed in the period 
thereafter. Accord seems to have charged the correct ERC. So, I cant fairly say that Accord 
has done anything wrong. For the above reasons I cant fairly uphold this complaint.  
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2022.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman