DRN-3029599
The complaint
 Mr G complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc failed to change his address correctly, resulting 
in a breach of data protection laws.  
What happened
 In November 2020, Mr G went into his local branch to change his address. He spoke to a 
staff member who took the details and updated his account. But in January 2021, he hadnt 
received any statements or his new cheque book. So he contacted Barclays to find out why. 
Barclays say the staff member took down the postcode incorrectly, which caused its system 
to select a different address to the one Mr G had given. It acknowledges a mistake was 
made, and that Mr Gs personal data was sent to an address he doesnt live at nor has he 
ever lived at. It says it provided feedback to the staff member and reported the breach to its 
security team to escalate to the Information Commissioners Office if necessary.  
To put things right, Barclays put a stop to the cheque book so it couldnt be used and sent 
another out to Mr Gs correct address which it had updated on its systems. It also paid £50 
into Mr Gs account by way of compensation. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this. He says hes extremely anxious about his data being in the 
wrong hands. And that he could now be at risk of fraud on his account. He doesnt think 
Barclays resolution adequately reflects whats gone wrong. So he brought his complaint to 
our service. 
During our investigation, Barclays told us it wanted to increase its offer of compensation by a 
further £150. And our investigator thought this was fair. She didnt think it needed to do any 
more than that. But Mr G doesnt agree. So the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that Barclays failed to update Mr Gs address correctly. And that his 
personal data was sent to the wrong address. So I dont need to make a finding on whether 
Barclays has done something wrong  it has. What I need to decide is whether Barclays has 
done enough to put things right. 
Im in no doubt that Mr G has been stressed and inconvenienced by this mistake. He tells us 
hes lost sleep and continues to worry about the security of his account. But Im not aware of 
any fraudulent activity thats taken place as a result. So whilst I acknowledge his concern, 
our service wouldnt look to award compensation for what could have happened or any 
hypothetical losses. Instead, we take a holistic view of whats actually happened and the 
impact this has had.
In this case, Barclays were able to rectify the mistake swiftly after being made aware of it in 
January 2021. It took appropriate precautions to protect Mr Gs account by cancelling the 
cheque book. And its changed Mr Gs address to ensure no further information is sent to the 
wrong place. I appreciate why Mr G remains anxious, but I dont think there is anything more 
Barclays can reasonably do here. 
To compensate Mr G for the trouble and upset hes experienced, Barclays has offered a total 
of £200 in recognition of whats gone wrong. As this is in line with what I wouldve awarded 
based on the circumstances of this complaint, I wont be asking Barclays to do anything 
more than that.
My final decision
 Barclays Bank UK Plc has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint, in 
addition to the £50 its already paid. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Barclays should pay the additional £150.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman