DRN-2278757
The complaint
Mr P complains that U K Insurance (UKI) Limited refused to decontaminate his car when it 
was in for repairs after he claimed on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ps car was involved in an accident in March 2020, so he claimed on his policy. While his 
car was being repaired, he was concerned the repairing garage werent using the correct 
Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to prevent his car being contaminated with Covid-19. 
Because of this he asked UKI to decontaminate his car for him. 
UKI looked into Mr Ps request and said it wasnt something it could do. It said the car would 
be cleaned in line with the government guidelines and returned to him. UKI also said if he 
was concerned about his car being contaminated with Covid-19 then he could leave it for 72 
hours to allow the virus to go naturally. Mr P didnt think this was good enough and 
complained, he said the virus could live for up to 28 days on hard surfaces, and as he was 
living with family members who were shielding, he said UKI should do more. 
UKI looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said it didnt think there was a risk of Mr 
Ps car becoming contaminated as its staff followed government guidelines. It also said a 
decontamination of his car wasnt something it offered but said if he wanted to pay for his car 
to be decontaminated himself then it was something it would speak with the third-party 
insurer with to see if it would cover it. Mr P didnt think this was good enough and brought his 
complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. She 
found that UKI had said it would clean Mr Ps car to industry standards which followed 
government advice. She also said that UKI had looked into having Mr Ps car 
decontaminated as hed requested but this wasnt something it offered, or the company Mr P 
had suggested UKI contact about decontaminating his car offered either. Mr P didnt agree, 
he said his car had been returned to him in a filthy condition and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. 
As Mr P didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Mr P made this complaint and UKI issued its final response to it Im aware Mr Ps car 
has been returned to him and that hes made a separate complaint about the condition it was 
in when it was returned. As that is a separate complaint to the one which was referred to this 
service, I havent considered it further here. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy say in the event of claim UKI will either pay for the 
repairs or repair Mr Ps car for him. They also say if his car cant be driven UKI will pay the 
reasonable costs of removing his car to the nearest suitable repairer and will do the same to 
return his car to the address on the schedule. UKI has agreed to do this so Im satisfied its 
done what it should do under the policy. 
Im aware though that most garages clean a car when its repaired before its returned to the 
policyholder. Also, given Mr Ps car was in for repair during the start of the Covid-19 
pandemic Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for UKI to take reasonable steps to prevent 
the spread of Covid-19 to Mr Ps car while it was in for repair. 
Mr Ps raised concerns that UKIs repairers werent using appropriate PPE when his car was 
repaired and therefore would contaminate it with Covid-19. He was particularly concerned as 
he was living with family members who had received letters saying they needed to shield. I 
can understand Mr Ps concerns given the virus was relatively new and everyone was 
having to adapt to it. Having done so though Im not persuaded UKI did anything wrong 
when Mr P raised his concerns. I say this because when Mr Ps car was in for repair and he 
raised the concerns with UKI, it was at the start of the Covid-19 pandemic. This meant that 
businesses also had to learn to adapt to new ways of working to ensure they could still 
operate safely. So, while Mr P didnt think UKI were doing enough to ensure his car was 
returned to him without the risk of it being contaminated with the virus, I can see UKI looked 
into what it could reasonably do to reduce any risk of contamination and offered reasonable 
alternatives when it wasnt possible to do a decontamination on his car.  
UKI also explained that its repairers would be following government guidelines to reduce the 
risk of transmission when repairing Mr Ps car. It looked at whether it could do a full 
decontamination of Mr Ps car as requested and contacted another company to see what 
this would cost but was told it wasnt something that company did. Because of this UKI said 
it couldnt do any more than it would for another customers car in for repair and instead 
offered for Mr Ps car to be returned to him through a contact free delivery, so Mr P could 
leave it for as long as he felt was needed to ensure it was safe. 
I can see UKI said this was 72 hours, but Mr P provided studies which said the virus could 
last for up to 28 days even when cleaned. So, while how long Mr Ps car would need to be 
left for the virus to go naturally is disputed, I wont make a finding on it here as I dont think it 
makes a difference. This is because by UKI repairing Mr Ps car and returning it to him in a 
contact free-way and saying it will be cleaned in line with government guidelines. It said it 
would do what it was required to under the policy and what is good industry practice, and 
what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, while Mr P has said he would like to 
be compensated for the time he couldnt use his car, while he waited for any possible 
contamination to go naturally, this isnt something his policy covered him for. So, Im not 
persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to compensate him for it.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman