DRN-2774469
The complaint
Miss C complains about the quality of a scooter she has been financing through an 
agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo).  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint MotoNovo, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss C acquired her scooter under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the scooter should have been of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then MotoNovo, who are also the supplier of 
the scooter, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if 
they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into 
account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a scooter the other relevant circumstances would include 
the age and mileage at the time it was supplied to Miss C. This was a brand-new scooter so 
I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that when we consider whether goods have proven to be of 
satisfactory quality we should also consider whether they have proven to be durable. I dont 
think a reasonable person would consider a scooter to be suitably durable if the engine failed 
after such a short period of time.
Miss C says she reported the fault with the bike in October 2020 after shed had the scooter 
for about five months. MotoNovo dispute the date the issue was first reported and suggest 
Miss C didnt take her scooter to the dealership until a month later in about mid November 
2020. But even if Miss C didnt report the issue until November 2020 I still dont think a 
reasonable person would consider the scooter to have proven to be suitably durable or of 
satisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair the scooter in those 
circumstances and Ive noted thats what Miss C would like the business to do for her.
So, Im telling Motonovo to repair the scooter at no cost to Miss C and, as shes been without 
the scooter since at least November 2020, they should refund any finance instalments shes 
paid since then and until the scooter is returned to her. As Miss C has been deprived of that 
money they should add 8% interest to that refund.
The relevant legislation explains that if the repair the business are entitled to make fails then 
they should consider rejecting the scooter; but Id hope that wont be necessary in this case.
Miss C has also been inconvenienced by these issues. Shes had to wait some time for the 
scooter to be repaired and has had to take the scooter to the dealership. Shes also had to 
refer her complaint to this service when I think it could have been resolved earlier. In those 
circumstances I think MotoNovo should pay her £150 to compensate her for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
repair the scooter at no cost to Miss C;
refund all finance instalments paid since November 2020 and add 8% simple interest 
per year to the refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman