DRN-3179506
The complaint
R complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited declined its mobile phone insurance 
claim.
What happened
R is a business customer of a phone provider and since 2019 has had a commercial 
insurance policy for its mobile phones insured by Assurant.
R ordered a phone in November 2020 and the phone provider said due to stock shortages 
delivery would be delayed. In early December 2020 the phone provider told R the phone had 
been delivered but R said it never received the phone.
R complained to the phone provider that the phone had been delivered to the wrong 
address. The phone provider ultimately said the phone had been delivered to the address R 
had given when ordering the phone and the phone had been signed for so it wouldnt 
replace the phone. The phone provider offered £150 compensation due to giving R some 
wrong information. R doesnt accept the phone was delivered to the correct address. There 
were also issues around a disputed delivery signature between R and the delivery service.
R claimed on the insurance policy for a lost phone. Assurant declined the claim saying as R 
was never in possession of the phone it had no insurable interest with Assurant and no 
cover under the policy terms. It said Rs dispute was with the phone provider and/or the 
delivery business. 
R complained to us. It said the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) stated the 
insurance cover starts from the date of the purchase of the phone not when the phone was 
delivered to it. It wants Assurant to provide a replacement phone under the terms of the 
insurance policy.
Our investigator said Assurant unfairly declined the claim and should reconsider the claim.
Assurant disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to not uphold the complaint. In summary 
I said:
R is a micro-enterprise and an eligible complainant under the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules under which we operate. So I could consider Rs complaint 
against Assurant.
Assurant told us R can only insure one phone at a time on the policy and when R 
made a claim R updated the policy to cover the relevant phone.
Assurant had referred to several policy terms which it said supported the decline of 
the claim. The most relevant term was on page 2 of the policy under the heading 
Who is this cover designed for?:
This policy has been designed for (phone providers name) Business 
customers who have a mobile device provided by (phone providers name) 
that is not already covered under another insurance policy and you want to 
cover the cost of repairing or replacing your mobile device against loss, theft, 
damage and breakdown.
I thought Assurant could reasonably say R didnt have, and never had, the phone.
Id considered Rs point that the IPID says cover starts immediately on the date of 
purchase. Assurant said that meant cover would start immediately for a phone that a 
customer had and wanted to insure, but under the policy terms for a claim to be 
made the phone would need to have been in the customers possession at some 
point. I thought Assurant could reasonably say that given the above policy term as R 
never had the phone the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms.
Id also considered whether Assurant fairly declined the claim. R didnt have the 
phone because there was a disputed delivery with the phone provider and/or the 
delivery service. I thought Rs complaint lay with the phone provider and/or delivery 
company which are separate businesses to Assurant. The disputed delivery wasnt 
Assurants responsibility.
The FCA rules detail what type of complaints we can consider. DISP 2.3 details 
which activities fall into our compulsory jurisdiction. A phone provider delivering a 
phone, or a delivery business delivering a phone for the phone provider, isnt a 
regulated activity. So we cant consider Rs complaint with the phone provider and/or 
delivery business.
Responses to my provisional decision
R didnt accept my provisional decision, in summary it said:
I hadnt considered key evidence and R summarised the background to the disputed 
delivery of the phone. R said it had made reasonable efforts to recover the phone 
and seek redress from the phone provider but was unsuccessful.
The IPID said the cover starts immediately on the date of purchase, not that cover 
started on date of delivery, and R had relied on that when deciding to take out the 
insurance. If the phone wasnt covered from date of purchase the wording was 
misleading.
My provisional decision didnt take into account that its possible for the date of 
purchase and the date of delivery of the phone to be different. R said Assurant knew 
those two dates would be different because it issued the policy for a phone 
purchased online. 
If Assurant meant to say cover should start at delivery date the policy should say so. 
The principle of estoppel meant I couldnt take Assurant argument seriously and/or it 
was too late for Assurant to say the policy really meant the phone was insured from 
date of possession as it had already partially performed the contract by taking the 
policy payment and issuing the policy.
Assurant is wrong to say only one phone at a time can be insured under the policy. R 
said the phone claimed for was part of an overall small business contract with the 
phone provider where multiple phones are regularly added/removed from the policy 
and R could provide bills to evidence that multiple phones on the same account are insured simultaneously.
It wasnt relevant that R didnt have and never had the phone. It was possible to buy 
an item and not physically have it, for example someone could buy an item abroad 
and never touch it. The phone was insured from the time of purchase and was lost 
after date of purchase so was covered by the policy.
My provisional decision that Rs complaint wasnt upheld because it could pursue the 
phone provider and/or the delivery business was flawed and violates DISP 2.3. R 
said whether a third party had liability isnt relevant to whether a loss is insurable. It 
wasnt Assurants fault the phone had been lost but the phone was insured and it had 
to meet the claim for the loss. R hadnt been successful in his complaint to the phone 
provider and/or the delivery business and the phone was still lost.
R was still paying for the phone it had never received and was paying for the 
insurance policy on that phone. If my provisional decision was right the policy could 
never be claimed against.
Assurant accepted my provisional decision. We asked for its comments on what R had said 
about multiple phones being insured under the policy. R said the insurance was connected 
to the phone number so each of Rs phones with different phone numbers had separate 
policies. It sent a screen shot showing the separate policy numbers for the phones.
We also asked for Assurants comment about the IPID on a commercial insurance policy 
saying cover started from the purchase date but a phone wasnt likely to be delivered the 
same day. Assurant said on business or personal policies if a phone wasnt bought in person 
an order was usually delivered the same or next day. But its point was that as the phone 
claimed for was never in Rs possession there was no insurable interest or cover under the 
policy terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill address Rs main points in its response, which Ive summarised above. But I have 
considered all the points its made in its response and the overall evidence in reaching my 
decision.
Ive considered the full details about the disputed delivery of the phone. I havent referred to 
the detail because the issue for Rs complaint against Assurant is the phone provider didnt 
provide R with a free replacement phone as it doesnt consider its done anything wrong in 
the delivery of the phone, which R disputes. Ive explained above why I cant consider the 
disputed delivery between R and the phone provider and/or the delivery business.
R says it relied on the IPID saying cover starts immediately on the date of purchase when 
deciding to take out the insurance. If R is saying the policy was mis-sold then it needs to 
make a separate complaint to the business that sold the policy. This decision is about 
whether Assurant fairly declined the claim.
I dont think Assurant must have known R had purchased the phone online as that would 
generally be a matter between the phone provider and R. But I accept that a consumer 
doesnt always receive the phone the same day the phone was purchased. In this case there 
was a considerable delay between purchase and delivery dates due to the phone providers 
stock shortages.I dont think Assurant is saying theres never any cover from the day of the phones 
purchase. Its saying in the circumstances of this case R never had possession of the phone 
so it had no insurable interest or cover under the policy terms. R didnt have and then lose 
the phone. I dont think Im prevented from considering that point by the principle of 
estoppel or because Assurant had taken payment for, and issued documents for, the policy. 
I consider both parties submissions, the policy wording, any relevant law and good industry 
practice in making my decision.
In some circumstances a consumer may buy an item and never have physical possession of 
that item. Whether a consumer would have an insurable interest in that item would depend 
on the wording of their policy if they wanted to insure the item and the policy terms would set 
out the cover. In this case the item is a mobile phone and the policy says its designed for:
(phone providers name) Business customers who have a mobile device provided by 
(phone providers name) .
Assurant says that policy term means theres a policy requirement for the policyholder to 
have the phone to be covered by the policy terms and I dont think thats unreasonable. 
The IPID says the cover starts immediately on the date of purchase but I dont think that 
changes Assurants responsibility to deal with claims in line with the policy document. As R 
never had the phone, as required by the above policy term, I think Assurant can reasonably 
say there was no insurable interest or cover under the policy terms. Even if I thought the 
IPID wording means Rs insurable interest started from the purchase date R never had the 
phone so I think Assurant could still say there was no cover under the policy terms.
From the information Assurants provided I think the phone claimed for did have its own 
policy. I dont think my decision would be different if the phone wasnt the only phone insured 
under the policy. R still wouldnt have had the phone claimed for.
My decision to not uphold Rs complaint against Assurant isnt on the basis that he should 
pursue the disputed delivery with the phone provider/delivery business. I think Assurant fairly 
declined the claim because R didnt have an insurable interest or cover under the policy 
terms. 
But at the centre of this case is that R didnt receive the phone because of a disputed 
delivery and thats an issue for R to pursue with the phone provider and/or delivery company 
which are separate businesses to Assurant. Although Rs done that and hasnt been 
successful it doesnt follow that Assurant has to pay the claim which isnt covered by the 
policy terms. I dont accept that my decision is contrary to DISP 2.3, which is about activities 
that fall into our compulsory jurisdiction.
If R is still paying for the phone under the phone contract thats an issue for R to raise with 
the phone provider. If its still paying for the policy on a phone it never received thats a 
separate issue for it to raise with Assurant. Whether or not R is making those payments 
doesnt affect my decision about whether Assurant can fairly decline the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman