DRN-3163250
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, wont refund to him the 
money that he paid for some flights. His wife is also involved with his complaint.
What happened
Mr H used his Barclaycard credit card in January 2020 to pay £1,467.11 for a package 
holiday, including flights, that was to take place in February 2020. There was a risk that the 
outbound flight would be cancelled because of a storm and the airline offered him free 
alternative flights, but he was unable to make contact with the airline by phone to book those 
flights. He then used his Barclaycard credit card in February 2020 to pay £382.96 to the 
airline for an outbound flight as he says that he felt that the holiday would be further 
disrupted if he didnt book those flights. 
He complained to the holiday company and the airline and claimed a refund of the £382.96 
that hed paid to the airline from Barclaycard under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. It said that severe weather conditions are considered as an extraordinary 
circumstance that the airline has no control over so it was unable to pursue the dispute 
under either section 75 or as a chargeback as there hadnt been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. It also said that Mr H wasnt entitled to a refund for booking his own 
flights. Mr H wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. He said that the 
airline had offered to arrange alternative flights for free under its terms and conditions and he 
didnt agree that there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation. He said that Mr H 
decided to book the alternative flights himself as the flights were limited and he didnt want to 
disrupt the holiday further. He didnt feel that Barclaycard needed to refund the £382.96 to 
Mr H as the outcome of the section 75 claim was correct.
Mr H has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that the 
holiday company is ATOL protected but offered no help or advice. He says that if hed not 
booked separate outgoing flights the holiday would have been missed. He says that the 
outbound flight didnt go and the lack of information and communication from the holiday 
company and the airline made it very difficult and as the alternative flights offered by the 
airline were selling out quickly he risked losing the holiday completely.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Hs complaint about Barclaycard, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday company or the 
airline and that Barclaycards response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable  but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Hs claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that;
Mr H had booked a package holiday which included flights but he received an e-mail 
from the airline a few days before the flight which said that there was a risk that the 
outbound flight would be affected by a storm so it said that he could transfer to 
another flight on a different date, free of charge  and it provided a number for him to 
phone if he wanted to transfer his flights; 
the airlines e-mail also said: If you do decide to move your flight, [the airline] will not 
be liable for any additional costs incurred;.
Mr H wanted to transfer his outbound flights and tired to contact the airline but says 
that he was unable to get through to it and he could see that the alternative flights 
offered by the airline were selling out quickly so he risked losing the holiday;
he then paid £382.96 to book some alternative flights that he was able to use  and 
hes claimed the cost of those flights from Barclaycard under section 75;
Barclaycard would only be liable to refund the £382.96 to Mr H under section 75 if 
there had been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the airline or the holiday 
company  but the airline offered the transfer because of the storm and Im not 
persuaded that there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday 
company or the airline in these circumstances; 
Mr H was offered a free transfer by the airline but he chose to book and pay for 
alternative flights  that was a decision that he made and though I can understand 
that there are likely to have been many factors that would have led to that decision, 
Im not persuaded that the holiday company or the airline was required to reimburse 
him for the cost of those flights;
Mr H has complained about the customer service that he received from the holiday 
company and the airline  but that isnt something for which Barclaycard would be 
liable under section 75;
Mr H has also complained about the way that Barclaycard has dealt with his 
complaint and he says that its failure to deal with issues sooner has left him 
exasperated, the whole process has been stressful and hes out of pocket for the 
cost of the flights; 
Barclaycard responded to Mr Hs initial claim in April 2020, he then made a claim 
about his payment to the airline in June 2020 to which Barclaycard responded in 
October 2020;
there was a delay in Barclaycards response to Mr H and I can understand the 
distress and inconvenience that the delay will have caused him  but Im not 
persuaded that an award of compensation is justified in these circumstances;
Mr H has also referred to other issues with his credit card and banking arrangements 
but in this decision Ive only considered his complaint about his section 75 claim  if 
he wants to complain about other issues he should first complain to Barclaycard or 
his bank and then, if hes not satisfied with its response, he may be able to make a 
complaint to this service; 
I sympathise with the issues that Mr H has experienced and for the additional costs 
that hes incurred, but I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these 
circumstances for me to require Barclaycard to refund to him the £382.96 that he paid for the alternative flights, to pay him any other compensation or to take any 
other action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman