DRN-3838056
The complaint
Mrs G complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential)                 
mis-sold a Teachers Additional Voluntary Contribution (TAVC) plan which has caused her 
to suffer a financial loss.
What happened
The events leading up to this complaint were set out in detail by our investigator in his 
assessment which he provided to both Mrs G and Prudential. I dont intend to repeat here 
what our investigator stated but will instead provide a summary.
Mrs G was employed as a teacher and joined the Teachers Pension Scheme (TPS) in 
September 1997. She was interested in increasing her retirement provision. Prudential 
advised her to start a TAVC plan. The application form for the TAVC plan recorded that                   
Mrs Gs risk profile was rated as 2 (Very Cautious). The TAVC plan started in February 1998 
with a selected retirement age of 60 to align with her normal retirement age under the TPS. 
She was aged 38 at that time.
Mrs G started to suffer with ill-health in 2005 which resulted in her leaving paid employment 
and the TPS in 2007. She paid her last contribution to the TAVC plan in August 2007                            
aged 48.
This complaint
In 2022, Mrs G complained to Prudential about the sale of her TAVC plan. She believed she 
shouldve been advised to purchase Past Added Years (PAYs) but this option hadnt been 
discussed or presented to her. She thought that Prudential had acted unfairly by only 
presenting the TAVC option. And that had she known about the PAYs option she wouldve 
selected it in favour of the TAVC because it wouldve been better for her circumstances and 
she would now be in a better financial position. She believed that Prudential only presented 
the TAVC option because its representatives were incentivised to sell those plans and not 
PAYs. To put things right, she requested that Prudential pay her compensation on the basis 
that she had instead purchased PAYs between 1998 and 2007.
Prudential didnt uphold Mrs Gs complaint. It said that its representatives werent permitted, 
under the regulations in place at that time, to advise on the merits or otherwise of purchasing 
PAYs compared to the TAVC option. But its representatives were required to make 
members aware of the alternative PAYs option and then it was up to members to approach 
the TPS if they wanted more information. Based on the documentary evidence available, it 
was satisfied that the information it, and the TPS, had given to Mrs G provided her with an 
awareness of the PAYs option so it had met its regulatory responsibilities. Prudential 
apologised and paid £50 compensation to Mrs G for the delay in issuing its final response 
letter to her complaint.
Mrs G didnt accept Prudentials response. She continued to believe that the TAVC plan had 
been mis-sold and so referred the matter to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
Prudential had complied with the regulatory expectations at the time and that its 
representative had adequately signposted the availability of the PAYs option to Mrs G before 
she decided to proceed with the TAVC plan. In addition, he said that Mrs Gs recorded risk 
profile suggested the TAVC plan was likely to be the better option for her based on 
reasonable expectations in 1998 about future investment returns. He noted that the cost of 
PAYs wasnt clear and may have been considered expensive at the time and so Mrs G may 
have discounted it as a viable option in any event.
Mrs G didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided comments in response. She 
essentially reiterated her previous comments that the PAYs option wasnt discussed or 
presented to her and so she was prevented from making an informed decision at the time. 
She thought this fact alone meant the TAVC plan had been mis-sold to her. Our investigator 
considered Mrs Gs comments but wasnt persuaded to change his opinion. Since 
agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has been referred to me, an ombudsman, to 
review and decide. This is the last stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and good industry practice at the time. Ive also carefully considered the 
submissions made by Mrs G and Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, Ive made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words Ive 
looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide 
what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
This service
At the outset I think its useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they wouldve been if the problem hadnt occurred.
Prudentials role
In 1989, Prudential was appointed, by the predecessor of the Department for Education 
(DfE), to provide an AVC scheme alongside the TPS. The TAVC scheme offered teachers 
the  opportunity to increase their pension provision at retirement by agreeing monthly 
deductions from their salary that were paid into the Prudential TAVC scheme. As part of its 
contract with the DfE, Prudential was required to make applicants aware of the other pension 
top up options that were available to them such as PAYs. Generally, the TAVC scheme was 
seen as the lowest cost option for topping up pension provision for teachers.
Mrs G joined the TPS in September 1997. On joining the scheme, she shouldve been given 
a scheme information booklet. That booklet provided some information about the ways in 
which the TPS pension could be supplemented by the payment of additional contributions. In 
particular it noted that the three options available were:
PAYs
AVC with PrudentialFree Standing AVC (FSAVC) with a different pension provider
I cannot be sure that Mrs G received this booklet when she joined the TPS. And of course 
there is a possibility that, even if she had received the booklet, she hadnt read it in any 
detail.
Regulatory expectations at time
The rules and requirements relating to AVCs have varied over time. The Prudential 
representative that met with Mrs G was what was known as a tied adviser. This meant they 
could only recommend products offered by Prudential  in this case the TAVC plan. They 
couldnt actively recommend any other products from any other product providers including 
PAYs offered by the TPS or other FSAVC products. Under the relevant rules, Prudential was 
required to maintain high standards of integrity and fair dealing, exercise due skill, care and 
diligence in providing any services, and generally take proper account of the interests of 
investors. It was also required to have regard to the consumer's financial position generally 
and to any rights they may have under an occupational scheme and give the consumer all 
information relevant to their dealings with the representative.
So, this means that tied advisers shouldve known that other contribution options would 
most likely be available to consumers like Mrs G. And in addition to highlighting the benefits 
of the AVC, a tied advisor needed to mention the generic features of the other options such 
as PAYs.
Did Prudential make Mrs G aware of the PAYs option?
I acknowledge that Mrs G says that she wasnt made aware or given any information about 
the PAYs option. Ive seen a sample of the application form that she wouldve signed when 
applying to pay additional contributions. This asked her about other pension contributions 
she was making. In particular, it asked whether she was already paying additional 
contributions to the TPS for family benefits or PAYs. While I think it most likely that Mrs G 
didnt complete the form herself, I would expect that she read it, or that the representative 
checked some of the details with her.
As a tied adviser, the representative could only consider Prudential products. He wasnt 
required to analyse or compare the TAVC plan with PAYs  he was only required to draw 
Mrs Gs attention to the PAYs option. It was then up to her to make further enquiries with the 
TPS including establishing the cost of PAYs and deciding whether it was an option she 
wanted to proceed with.
Bearing in mind the evidence Ive seen, and the regulatory expectations placed on 
Prudential at the time, I think its more likely than not that its representative made Mrs G 
aware that there were other contribution options open to her such as PAYs in addition to the 
TAVC scheme. I appreciate that she might not now remember that conversation in any detail 
 the advice was given to her over 25 years ago, and over such a lengthy period even the 
most careful of memories can, and do, fade. But, on balance, I think that the PAYs option 
wouldve been part of the discussion she had.
But even if that wasnt the case I dont think, at that time, Mrs G wouldve made a different 
decision had she investigated the PAYs option. Generally, at that time, there was more 
perceived value in an arrangement that depended on investment returns such as the TAVC 
plan. Expected growth was high and annuity rates were better than now, so the expected 
return under the TAVC plan was likely to be considered more beneficial than PAYs. TAVC 
illustrations were based on assumed interest rates recommended by the regulator and 
werent unrealistic at the time. And PAYs were expensive compared to the projected benefits of an AVC at that time. Mrs G was 38 so there was less time for her to spread the cost of 
PAYs over the term to age 60. And the extra benefits and contributions were fixed, whereas 
the TAVC plan had flexibility and there was no cap on what she could achieve with its 
investment.
The evidence shows that Mrs G wanted to pay additional contributions to increase her 
retirement provision. She had capacity to make further provision. The application form for the 
TAVC plan recorded that her risk profile was rated as 2 (Very Cautious) on a scale of 1 to 4, 
where 1 (Capital Security) was lowest risk and 4 (Adventurous) was highest risk. This shows 
that she was willing to accept some investment risk and wasnt completely risk adverse. So, 
with the projected growth of the TAVC plan at the time, I think the risk attached to it opposed 
to the cost and longer commitment of PAYs, meant the TAVC plan was likely to appear the 
better and most cost-effective option for Mrs G.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, that might not be the case now  investment 
returns havent been as strong as were reasonably predicted at the time and annuity rates 
have fallen. But I dont think Mrs G wouldve found the PAYs option attractive in 1998 based 
on the reasonable projections that wouldve been made at the time. 
Because of this, I dont consider it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Prudential to 
pay compensation to Mrs G in connection with its advice to start the TAVC plan  or to take 
any further action in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman