DRN-2362039
The complaint
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc when his car was damaged 
during a theft. He complains that he wasnt given a suitable replacement vehicle whilst AXA 
assessed some of the damage to his car.  
What happened
Mr Ss car was found to be damaged when it was stolen in November 2019 and recovered. 
AXAs approved repairer carried out the repairs. As Mr S had paid extra for a courtesy car 
upgrade, he was entitled to have a car of a similar size to his own (a seven-seater) rather 
than a standard small car. Under the policys upgrade, he was also entitled to keep the car 
for 21 days if it wasnt being repaired (as opposed to the standard 14 days) or for the 
duration of the repairs. Mr S had a seven-seater hire car for 29 days in 2019. 
In May 2020 Mr S told AXA there were problems with his repaired car that he thought should 
have been dealt with when its repairer carried out the initial work on it. The car was 
inspected in June 2020 by an independent engineer. In July 2020 AXA decided it should be 
written-off. Meanwhile, various inspections were carried out. Mr S was given a replacement 
car, but it was only a five-seater. Mr S told AXA that as he needed a seven-seater car in 
order to transport his whole family, he was severely inconvenienced by that. 
One of our investigators considered Mr Ss complaint. He thought Mr Ss car should have 
been identified as a total loss when it was inspected in 2019. He said as a result of that not 
happening, Mr S was inconvenienced in 2020 when his car had to be reassessed. He 
thought AXA should pay Mr S £300 compensation for the inconvenience of having a smaller 
car than his own for around six weeks in 2020. AXA agreed to his proposal, but Mr S said 
the minimum hed accept from AXA was £500. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any inconvenience to Mr S could have been avoided had his car been written-off in 2019, 
although it seems from the file that it was hard for AXA to establish whether it was at fault for 
the extra problems not being found at that time. Its not entirely clear from the documents 
whether they should have been noted then. But as AXA accepted that was the case, I think 
its fair that it should try to compensate Mr S for the inconvenience he faced in 2020. 
 
Notes on AXAs file suggest that there was some difficulty in getting hold of hire cars in the 
summer of 2020, although AXA didnt reply to the investigators specific query about why it 
didnt supply a seven-seater car at the time. Ideally, I think Mr S should have been provided 
with one - but it isnt always possible for insurers to provide larger vehicles, as it always 
depends on their availability. The policy says a replacement car may not be provided at all. If 
it isnt possible, compensation is paid towards a consumers travelling costs instead. 
In this case, it seems that a replacement five-seater car was provided for around six weeks  
far longer than the 21-day period set out in the policy, given that Mr Ss car wasnt being 
repaired. I think the provision of that car went some way towards dealing with the 
inconvenience Mr S faced in not having his own car. I dont think having a smaller vehicle 
during this period would have affected Mr S on every trip  just those where the whole family 
needed to travel together. So taking everything into account, in my opinion it would be fair 
and reasonable for AXA to settle the matter by paying Mr S £300 for inconvenience.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr S 
£300 compensation for inconvenience.    
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman