DRN-4121938
The complaint
Mrs W says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) acted unfairly by continuing to allow 
the use of her overdraft facility when there were clear signs of financial difficulty. She says 
the fees and charges added to the account made her position significantly worse.  
What happened
Mrs W held an account with an overdraft facility with a limit of £4,350. Mrs Ws account 
statements show the account received some large transfers in and out within days of each 
other, but overall, the account was continually overdrawn and at the top of her limit from 
around July 2017 until Mrs W raised her complaint. 
Following NatWest writing to Mrs W in July 2018 regarding her overdraft usage Mrs W got in 
contact with NatWest. NatWests internal notes record that Mrs W didnt think she was 
having financial difficulties but was temporarily behind with her mortgage and that she 
wanted to set up a reduction plan. As Mrs W did not have her income and expenditure 
details, she said she would call back but failed to do so.
NatWest says Mrs W didnt use the account as her main account and that Mrs W had never 
contacted it to advise that she was in financial difficulty or asked it to help prior to her raising 
her complaint. NatWest says all charges and interest have been applied to the account 
correct and as such it cannot issue a refund.
Mrs Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. They thought having 
reviewed Mrs Ws statements they didnt think there were signs of financial difficulty that 
ought to have prompted the bank to treat her differently. They said there were significant 
amounts transferred into and out of the account which couldve cleared the balance.  
Mrs W disagreed  she says the large credits into the account were from her parents to 
assist with her mortgage.
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 27 April 
2023. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing to uphold Mrs Ws 
complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Both parties have confirmed they have received my decision and neither NatWest 
or Mrs W have provided any new information.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
NatWest will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when 
applying overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this 
decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I currently think NatWest acted unfairly 
when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees from August 2019.  By this 
point, it ought to have been clear that Mrs W was in no position to sustainably repay what 
she owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, NatWest ought to have realised that Mrs Ws use of her overdraft was 
unsustainable. Mrs Ws statements show that she was consistently overdrawn and near the 
top of her limit and although at times there were large credits in that paid off her overdraft 
within days the same amounts would go out and Mrs W would once again be near her 
overdraft limit. Although at times Mrs W did make transfers into the account, they were not 
regular and overall her overdraft was not reducing.  
I accept that Mrs W doesnt appear to be using the account as her main account and the 
vast majority of the transactions on Mrs Ws account were discretionary, non-committed 
transactions. But this doesnt mean that NatWest should continue to allow the use of what 
should be short term lending to continue for a number of years.  NatWest ought to have 
realised that Mrs W was at a significant risk of being unable to repay what she owed. 
NatWest say Mrs W never contacted it about being in financial difficulty. But by NatWests 
own admission it says it wrote to Mrs W in 2018 and 2019 about the overdraft usage and 
that the account had entered collections on a few occasions.  
So I think it was aware Mrs W wasnt using the overdraft as intended. NatWest should have 
stopped providing the overdraft on the same terms and treated Mrs W with forbearance 
rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft. 
Mrs W ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft and this 
ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to clear it. So I currently think 
that NatWest didnt treat Mrs W fairly and she lost out because of what NatWest did wrong. 
And this means that it should put things right.
As neither party has provided any further evidence or arguments for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows that I 
uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ws complaint for NatWest to put things right by:
Reworking Mrs Ws current overdraft balance on account so that all interest, fees 
and charges applied to it from August 2019 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made NatWest should contact Mrs W to arrange a suitable repayment plan, 
Mrs W is encouraged to get in contact with and cooperate with NatWest to reach 
a suitable agreement. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information 
on Mrs Ws credit file, NatWest should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in August 
2019. NatWest can also reduce overdraft limit by the amount of refund if it 
considers it appropriate to do so, as long as doing so wouldnt leave Mrs W over 
their limit.
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then 
NatWest should remove any adverse information from Mrs Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires NatWest to take off tax from this interest. NatWest must 
give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman