DRN-3690327
The complaint
Mr D complains that advice given by Kingswood Law IFA Limited to open a self-invested 
personal pension to enable him to invest in high risk Unregulated Collective Investment 
Schemes wasnt in his best interests.
Mr D is represented in this complaint by a Claims Management Company (CMC).
What happened
Mr D had been a client of Kingswood Law IFA Limited (Kingswood) since 2004. His main 
point of contact was their adviser Mr W.
In late 2011 Mr D consulted Kingswood for advice on his pension. His main provision was a 
GPP held in cash with provider F, which originated from the benefits of his occupational 
pension scheme (OPS) from his employment with a firm Ill refer to as B.
He provided Kingswood with a copy of a fact find hed completed with another firm which 
arranged the transfer from his OPS to the GPP with F. From this, Kingswood captured the 
following information about Mr Ds circumstances:
Aged 52, living with his partner, a teacher;
Two adult children who he anticipated supporting for a further 3-5 years;
Employed by B a retail organisation for 30 years, annual salary around £50,000;
A member of Bs (defined contribution) pension scheme, valued just over £21,000, to 
which he contributes 7% of salary, employer contributes 12%;
GPP valued at around £595,176 (originally his OPS with B), held in Fs cash fund;
Another personal pension with S valued at around £71,618
Planned to retire in around ten years, with an income of around £50,000;
Home valued at around £350,000 with an outstanding mortgage of £40,000
Cash savings of £80,000 offsetting the mortgage, plus an ISA (value not recorded)
A fairly conservative view over money
Mr D apparently wished to take more control over his retirement savings and liked the idea 
of building up a property portfolio to provide retirement income.
In 2012 Kingswoods adviser Mr W recommended Mr D transfer his GPP held with F, and his 
smaller personal pension to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). It researched the 
market and recommended the Westerby SIPP which would be managed through a platform.
Kingswood cant locate its suitability report showing the rationale for opening the SIPP or 
any subsequent investments. But the SIPP was opened and the funds from Mr Ds GPP and 
his personal pension totalling around £666,800 were transferred to the SIPP in June and 
July 2012. His employers DC pension wasnt transferred. 
In September 2012 Mr D signed a statement confirming he was a high net worth individual 
meaning he had an income of over £100,000 or personal assets in excess of £250,000.
Kingswood cant evidence it assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk (ATR) at the time of the 
advice. But a questionnaire Mr D completed in April 2013 assessed his ATR as 8/10 defined 
as a moderately adventurous investor.
Mr D says within six months of opening his SIPP Mr W introduced him to Mr B and 
SIPPClub, an organisation which provides free pension investment information. In April 
2013 Mr D entered into a one-year unregulated third-party property loan of £40,500, which 
he arranged direct. In April and May 2013 Kingswood facilitated three further third-party 
property loans of various terms totalling £240,000, and in June 2014 a further 3-year loan of 
£100,000. Kingswood said it ensured Mr D had done his own due diligence for each of these 
investments, and its not for them to comment on what Mr D should or shouldnt do. 
In June 2013 a different Kingswood adviser recommended Mr D use 25% of his SIPP to 
establish a core portfolio of funds in line with his 8/10 risk profile to be held with provider A. 
This was to provide an element of liquidity, and somewhat offset the risks of his other 
investments. 
SIPPClub promoted the prospects for Dolphin Capital, so Mr D purchased a £60,000 five-
year loan note in Dolphin, in August 2013 and a second one in March 2014. The Dolphin 
scheme was described as the opportunity to invest in derelict government buildings in 
Germany which would be refurbished and sold or rented. The loan notes would pay interest 
and then the capital and interest would be returned at the end of the term. 
In November 2014 the other Kingswood adviser reviewed Mr Ds overall investment portfolio 
and recommended he invest £100k of his cash holdings in absolute return funds to balance 
his risk. 
In July 2018 Mr Ds first investment of £60,000 in Dolphin was due to mature, and he was 
told by Mr B to expect around £114,485, being the original loan plus interest. Mr D was told if 
he wanted to reinvest the proceeds in another Dolphin loan note hed need to open a 
different SIPP, as Westerby no longer allowed such investments. Unfortunately the promised 
maturity payment didnt materialise, and later that year Dolphin went into liquidation in 
Germany. Due to the large number of creditors the investments in Dolphin are effectively 
worthless, and the scheme is under investigation. 
In November 2020 Mr D through his CMC, complained to Kingswood about the advice to 
transfer his pension funds into the SIPP and invest in Dolphin, which it said meant hed given 
up valuable guaranteed pension benefits, And Dolphin was a UCIS which was far too risky 
and caused Mr D a considerable financial loss. 
Kingswood didnt uphold his complaint. It said Mr Ds losses didnt arise from its advice, and 
his pensions had no guaranteed benefits. Theyd opened the SIPP but didnt advise on the 
investments in Dolphin. Kingswoods adviser (not Mr W) had made Mr D fully aware of the 
risks of investing in unregulated investments, and it had recommended Mr D balance his 
portfolio to offset the other investments within his SIPP. 
So Mr D referred his complaint to this service. 
I issued a provisional decision on this case in August 2022, as Id come to a different 
outcome to our investigator who hadnt upheld the complaint. 
He didnt think Kingswood had carried out all its regulatory responsibilities at the time of the 
advice, and thought there was a link, through Mr W, between Kingswood and SIPPClub. But 
as Mr D had admitted that he would have gone ahead anyway, he didnt think it was fair to 
hold Kingswood responsible for his loss. Provisional findings
I wont set out my provisional decision in its entirety, but my provisional findings were as 
follows, in summary: 
The investigator reached his view not to uphold the complaint mainly based on a phone call 
in January 2022, in which Mr D said if hed been advised against transferring hed have gone 
ahead anyway. 
Having listened to the call, I thought he and the investigator were slightly at cross purposes. I 
thought Mr D meant hed always have transferred his GPP with provider F, (originally his 
final salary OPS with B), to take advantage of the enhanced transfer value (which was 
substantial at £597,300), due to his concerns about the viability of the company and pension 
scheme. But I didnt think that meant if hed been properly advised by Kingswood, hed also 
have gone ahead with the investment in Dolphin. 
I set out Kingswoods obligations contained in the regulators handbook under the conduct 
of business sourcebook (COBS) and principles for businesses (PRIN). The most relevant 
rules to this complaint are; 
- COBS 2.1 says a firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
their clients best interests.
- COBS 9.2 says a firm needs to obtain the necessary information regarding their clients 
knowledge and experience in the investment field, financial situation and objectives. 
- PRIN 6 says a firm must pay due regard to their customers interests and treat them 
fairly. 
- PRIN 9 says a firm must take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice. 
Kingswoods position is it didnt make any specific recommendations to Mr D about 
investments within his SIPP. But in supplementary guidance over the years, the regulator 
had made clear the expectation that an adviser shouldnt simply recommend a transfer to a 
SIPP, without advising on the investments held within it the consumer intends to make. I 
wasnt satisfied Kingswood had acted in Mr Ds best interests, and I hadnt seen any 
evidence to show it had reviewed the suitability of the proposed investment in Dolphin. Even 
though Mr W was aware of Mr Ds intention to invest in UCIS (or perhaps suggested he do 
so via SIPPClub) and had selected a SIPP provider specifically as it permitted that type of 
investment, which not all do. 
The transfer from Mr Ds OPS with B in 2011 to the GPP with F had been handled by 
another firm and had since been held in Fs cash fund. So I was satisfied the transfer 
Kingswood advised on didnt result in Mr D losing guaranteed pension benefits. I thought 
that because of Mr Ds concerns about the viability of his employer, and he hoped to retire in 
ten years on a similar level of income as his salary, hed be open to opportunities to 
maximise his retirement income. But without the evidence of a suitability report I wasnt 
satisfied Kingswood had shown why a SIPP was appropriate for Mr D. And importantly that it 
had assessed the suitability of the investments within the SIPP particularly Dolphin, which 
was a high risk UCIS affording him no consumer protection.
The regulator doesnt permit UCIS to be promoted to retail clients like Mr D. And regardless 
of the form he signed, I thought Kingswood knew Mr D didnt meet the definition of a high net 
worth individual, (meaning an income of £100,000 and/or personal assets of £250,000), and 
Mr D hadnt been asked to provide supporting evidence of his assets. Although his net worth 
in 2013 had been expressed as £1.24m, it was much lower when his pension funds, main 
residence and assets owned jointly with his wife were excluded. I thought it likely the form had been pre-prepared by Kingswood and Mr D signed it as a 
formality without appreciating the implications. Mr D may have been a longstanding client of 
Kingswood, but they knew he wasnt an experienced, sophisticated investor. And Mr D may 
not have understood the distinction of Mr W advising him formally on behalf of Kingswood 
and making investment opportunity suggestions through SIPPClub. 
It seemed Mr D had entered into the first of five third-party property loans without the 
assistance of Kingswood, but it had facilitated the other four, which suggested tacit support 
for the investment strategy. And I didnt think Mr D wouldve thought Kingswood considered 
the two investments in Dolphin differently. I said it was possible Mr B, Mr W and SIPPClub 
may have genuinely believed Dolphin to be a good investment with the potential for high 
returns, but it was nonetheless an unregulated, non-mainstream investment unsuitable for 
an unsophisticated investor with limited capacity for loss, as Kingswood knew Mr D to be. 
And in terms of due diligence it didnt provide the same personal contact with the borrowers 
afforded by the third-party property investments Mr D had already made. 
The other Kingswood adviser had set out the risks of investing in unregulated loans and 
other investments which Mr D appeared to accept by replying by email to say, among other 
things, that he entered into such loans with a full and clear understanding of the potential 
risks and pitfalls involved. He also agreed with his risk rating of 8/10 and fully accept the 
risks associated with this score and the types of investments from my pension fund 
associated with this. 
But I didnt think that was enough to absolve Kingswood of its responsibility to act in Mr Ds 
best interests. And when having invested an initial £60,000 in a Dolphin loan note, Mr D 
expressed interest in investing a further £40,000 (he actually invested another £60,000), 
Kingswood hadnt expressed any concern to Mr D about the suitability of such an investment 
for him, or at increasing the already significant proportion of his portfolio in high risk 
unregulated investments. 
Mr D said he was happy with the other third-party property-related investments as hed been 
repaid. But I said just because they didnt lose money doesnt make them suitable. Mr D had 
expressed an interest to build up a property portfolio to provide retirement income, but 
theres no evidence Mr D had considered investing in UCIS or Dolphin specifically before his 
SIPP was opened. Mr D may have felt flattered to have been considered a sophisticated 
investor with the necessary understanding, net worth and capacity for loss to invest in those 
schemes, but I thought it unlikely hed have approached Kingswood about such high-risk 
investments had these not been suggested to him.
So in summary, while it was reasonable for Kingswood to recommend Mr D invest his 
pension savings which were held in cash, I thought the advice to open a SIPP in order to 
invest in high risk investments and UCIS wasnt in his best interests. 
So I was minded to uphold the complaint, and set out what Kingswood should do to put 
things right.
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded.
Mr Ds representatives accepted the provisional decision, apart from clarifying that the 
second investment Mr D made in Dolphin was £60,000 not £40,000. Ive corrected this in the background section, as Mr D did initially express an interest in 
investing a further £40,000, but the loan notes show he made two £60,000 investments.
Mr W on behalf of Kingswood responded at length, making the following points, in summary:
Mr D has been a client of Kingswood for over 15 years, the file cant demonstrate the 
extent of the relationship;
Mr D didnt want his sizeable pension fund invested in the stock market;
Mr Ds role as a retail loss prevention manager gave him experience of due diligence 
and decision making;
His concerns about the viability of his ex-employer proved to be justified, and he 
carried out due diligence on his pension investments;
Mr D originally approached Kingswood about obtaining a mortgage in order to join a 
HMO (house in multiple occupation) buy-to-let property franchise business, as an 
alternative career;
This explained his need for a SIPP, but its not true Mr D hadnt thought about 
investing in UCIS or Dolphin prior to consulting Kingswood;
The property-related loans are not UCIS, and two of the third-party loan investments, 
were also franchisees in the same HMO business;
Mr D was aware of his responsibilities to the SIPP provider to act prudently, 
commercially and securely;
Mr D has demonstrated the extent of the research he carried out prior to agreeing to 
the third-party loans, including checking the company website, Companies House, 
reviewing financial statements and discussing strategy with the borrower;
Mr D was aware it wasnt prudent to have all eggs in one basket;
Given this, there was no reason for Kingswood to think Mr D wouldnt have taken the 
same approach prior to investing in Dolphin;
But the Dolphin investment wasnt known about or facilitated by Kingswood;
By the time he invested in Dolphin Mr D was a sophisticated investor;
Mr D fully understood the risks and said unregulated loans of this nature .are my 
preferred choice of investment vehicle in order that I can drive higher returns.
Mr D showed a keen interest and desire to invest in property loans through his 
pension and this isnt something Kingswood can say he should or shouldnt do;
Mr D fully understood the distinction between regulated financial advice through 
Kingswood and the investment opportunities in UCIS being suggested to him by Mr 
W and Mr B through SIPPClub. Mr D said I have been very pleased with the advice, 
communication, and support and had gone into the whole area of unregulated 
investments with a full and clear understanding of the risks associated with these 
type of investments. 
Mr D was not a passenger in this process, he actively participated and enjoyed 
doing so;
Mr D remains a happy client of Kingswood, and Kingswood would advise him the 
same way again, given his requirements;
A funds only solution for his pension was not appropriate at all;
Kingswood understands Mr D is unhappy with the loss from the Dolphin investment, 
but his complaint has been driven by the CMC;
The evidence is irrefutable, and the complaint should not be upheld;
It cited another similar case at this service which wasnt upheld;
But if the complaint is upheld the redress should factor in Mr Ds ATR which was 
established by Kingswood as 8/10, meaning a proportion of his investment would 
always have been in high risk funds.So Im now in a position to issue the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I still think the complaint should be upheld, as Im not satisfied the transfer to 
a SIPP to invest in high risk investments was suitable advice for Mr Ds circumstances. 
Ill remind Kingswood that each case is assessed based on its particular merits so the other 
case it has mentioned isnt relevant here. 
Kingswoods position is that Mr D was an experienced, sophisticated, high net worth 
individual, who didnt want his pension invested in the stock market, instead he wanted to 
use his pension funds to invest in property. They simply arranged the SIPP to enable him to 
do that. And they believe they discharged their responsibilities by ensuring he fully 
understood the risks involved. They deny recommending, knowing of or facilitating the 
investments in Dolphin.
The funds within the GPP were Mr Ds main retirement provision, and were held in cash, 
which wouldve been eroded over time by inflation. Mr D said he was interested in investing 
in property, (by joining a property-related franchise), to boost his pension. And also to 
potentially replace his employment income should his concerns about the viability of his 
employer come to pass. But Kingswoods role wasnt simply to ask Mr D what hed like to do 
with his pension funds, and then implement his wishes. As a regulated financial adviser, 
Kingswood should have used their professional expertise to determine an investment 
strategy appropriate for Mr Ds circumstances, attitude to risk, capacity for loss and 
investment horizon. 
Kingswood hasnt provided a copy of its suitability report, so its not clear what 
recommendations it made to Mr D. Kingswood says it wouldnt have been appropriate to 
invest his pension in the stock market. The other adviser subsequently recommended 25% 
of his portfolio (£165k) be invested in a range of funds, but this was after Mr D had been 
investing in third party property loans. But Ive seen no evidence of an overall cohesive 
strategy.
Its also not clear how Kingswood assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk or how it had changed 
from his stated fairly conservative view over money. Kingswood hasnt provided any 
questionnaire, we just have the output from one apparently completed after the advice which 
assessed him as 8/10, an undated fact find within which Adventurous is circled, and the 
recommendation email dated 14 June 2013 which said this reflected Mr Ds moderately 
adventurous or 8/10 risk score. Kingswood hasnt shown Mr Ds responses to the 
questionnaire or how clear the questions were.
Ive also seen nothing to show Kingswood had factored in Mr Ds capacity for loss or 
investment horizon, in other words whether he could afford losses, and the prospects he had 
to make up any losses. 
At the time of the advice he was 52 and hoped to retire in ten years (the retirement date for 
his GPP was March 2019). But Mr B was concerned about the viability of his employer, so 
although he was a member of Bs defined contribution scheme to which he and his employer 
were contributing, if B ceased trading Mr D would lose both his income and future pension 
contributions. The investment in Dolphin of £120,000 represents almost 20% of Mr Ds 
overall portfolio, and he had limited time to make back those losses, at the same time his 
income was reduced. The regulator precludes the promotion to UCIS or non-mainstream investments to retail 
clients. The rules about this are set out in COBS 4.12. 
Kingswood treated Mr D as a HNW individual and a sophisticated investor as set out in 
COBS 4.12.6, which meant Mr D had to self-certify to income of £100,000 or net assets (not 
including his primary residence or pension funds) of £250,000 or more. Its not in dispute Mr 
D signed a HNW form on 24 September 2012. But Mr Ds income as captured in the fact find 
was £50,000 (and he anticipated this income coming to an end), and his personal net assets 
werent valued at £250,000. So I think Kingswood knew Mr D wasnt in fact a HNW 
individual. 
Mr D was also certified by the other Kingswood adviser as a sophisticated investor on 8 
April 2013. Under COBS 4.12.7 a firm could certify an investor as sophisticated if it had 
signed a certificate within the last 36 months confirming the investor had been assessed by 
that firm as sufficiently knowledgeable to understand the risks associated with engaging in 
investment activity in non-mainstream pooled investments. The investor also had to sign a 
prescribed statement and Mr D did so. But from Kingswoods timeline of events, Mr Ds first 
third party property investment in April 2013, and the three further investments arranged 
through Kingswood were made in April and May 2013. So he had little investment 
experience at the point he was certified. 
And even if Mr D had been a HNWI and sophisticated investor, the regulator suggested 
UCIS should make up no more than 10% of an overall portfolio. So the two investments in 
Dolphin at almost 20% represented too large a proportion of Mr Ds SIPP. I think Kingswood 
recognised this which is why in 2014 they recommended Mr D invest 25% (£165k) of his 
portfolio in a range of UK and global funds and equities, to improve liquidity (as even 
successful property investments are difficult to turn into cash), and mitigate the risks.
Mr D may have enjoyed researching and discussing the investments with the HMO property 
franchisees, and those investments have worked well for him. So he may have been 
tempted by the investment in Dolphin, which it seems was suggested to him through 
SIPPClub. And given his recent positive experienced with the third-party property loans, 
despite the warnings he may have felt his money wasnt at much risk. But I dont accept this 
research together with his experience in the retail industry meant hes able to carry out the 
level of due diligence required to assess the suitability of a non-mainstream unregulated 
investment. Mr D engaged and paid a substantial fee to Kingswood for this. Kingswood said 
it had no reason to doubt Mr D would have taken the same diligent approach to his research 
[into Dolphin] as he had historically done with his other investments. And that it wasnt for 
Kingswood to say what Mr D should or shouldnt do. But I think thats exactly what a financial 
adviser is supposed to do, particularly if its aware the client is taking risks with their pension, 
and doesnt meet the criteria of a HNWI or sophisticated investor. 
Kingswood shouldve categorised Mr D as a retail investor, with neither the experience, 
financial means, capacity for loss or investment horizon for non-mainstream or UCIS type of 
investments. I dont think it acted in Mr Ds best interest by simply asking him to 
acknowledge the warnings, and Im not persuaded Mr D understood the consumer protection 
implications arising from Mr Ws relationship with both Kingswood and SIPPClub. 
Ill respond here to Kingswoods point about the risk level of the proposed redress. As 
mentioned earlier Ive seen nothing to show how Mr Ds ATR was arrived at. But Im satisfied 
Mr D wasnt a cautious investor, and was prepared to accept some risk in order to maximise 
returns. Which is why I selected the Growth index. This is set out below under why is this 
remedy suitable. Putting things right
To compensate Mr D fairly, Kingswood Law must: 
Compare the performance of Mr D's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. 
If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable. If the fair 
value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is payable. 
Kingswood Law should add interest as set out below.
Kingswood Law should pay into Mr D's SIPP to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If Kingswood Law is unable to pay the total amount into Mr D's SIPP, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally 
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to 
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so Mr D 
wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid. 
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
Its reasonable to assume that Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected 
retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr D would have been 
able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Kingswood Law deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr D how much has been taken off. Kingswood Law should give Mr 
D a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some 
illiquidFTSE UK 
Private Investor 
Growth indexDate of 
investment Date of my 
final 
decision8% simple per year 
from final decision 
to settlement (if not 
settled within 28 
days of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance
Actual value 
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. 
Kingswood Law should take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension provider. The amount Kingswood Law pays should be included in 
the actual value before compensation is calculated. If Kingswood Law is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be 
nil for the purpose of calculating the actual value. Kingswood Law may require that Mr G 
provides an undertaking to pay Kingswood Law any amount he may receive from the illiquid 
assets in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be 
incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Kingswood Law will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
Fair value 
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the 
fair value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Ive decided on this method of compensation because: 
Mr D wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept a higher level of investment risk. 
The FTSE UK Private Investor Growth index is made up of a range of indices with 
different asset classes. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take a 
higher than average risk to get a higher return.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If 
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend the business to pay 
the balance. 
Kingswood Law IFA Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr D in a clear, simple 
format. 
Determination and award: my provisional decision is I uphold the complaint. I consider that 
fair compensation should be calculated as set out above. Kingswood Law IFA Limited should 
pay Mr D the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £160,000 (including 
distress or inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest on the amount set out 
above. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£160,000, I recommend that Kingswood Law IFA Limited pays Mr D the balance plus any 
interest on the amount as set out above. 
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award. It does not bind Kingswood 
Law IFA Limited. It is unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the 
balance. Mr D may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding 
whether to accept this decision. 
If Kingswood Law IFA Limited does not pay the recommended amount, then any portfolio 
currently illiquid should be retained by Mr D. This is until any future benefit that he may 
receive from the portfolio together with the compensation paid by Kingswood Law IFA 
Limited (excluding any interest) equates to the full fair compensation as set out above. 
Kingswood Law IFA Limited may request an undertaking from Mr D that either he repays to 
Kingswood Law IFA Limited any amount he may receive from the portfolio thereafter or if 
possible, transfers the portfolio to Kingswood Law at that point. Mr D should be aware that any such amount would be paid into his pension plan so he may 
have to realise other assets in order to meet the undertaking. 
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint. 
I direct Kingswood Law IFA Limited to compensate Mr D as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman