DRN-4273875
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release mortgage that Mr A and Mrs B took out over late 
2022/early 2023 with more 2 life Ltd trading as Standard Life Home Finance (SLHF). 
The crux of the complaint is about errors and delays on the part of SLHF and its solicitors 
that resulted in Mr A and Mrs B borrowing less money than theyd hoped for, and interest 
being charged at a higher rate. In addition to the financial impact on them Mr A and Mrs B 
say theyve experienced a high degree of distress and inconvenience. In Mrs Bs case, thats 
been exacerbated by an ongoing health condition. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr A and Mrs B and SLHF. Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a detailed response to the complaint, which has been 
shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr A and Mrs B being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points, 
and then focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr A and Mrs B were using the mortgage funds to buy a new-build property. As the build 
progressed, successive mortgage offers were issued, and then extended when they passed 
their expiry date. The conveyancing process was difficult and convoluted, with errors, 
omissions and duplications abounding - not confined just to SLHF or the firms of solicitors 
representing it in the transaction. 
The property was confirmed as ready to occupy in November 2022, subject to a professional 
consultants certificate. At that point, the mortgage offer in play was for £223,499, on a 
lifetime fixed rate of 5.32%. That offer had originally been issued in September 2022, but 
had been re-issued on 9 November 2022, and was valid until 25 November 2022. Sadly 
completion was delayed beyond that date, and SLHF then issued a revised offer in 
December 2022, for £190,400, on a fixed rate of 8%. The mortgage eventually completed on 
the terms of the December 2022 offer.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She concluded that but for the 
cumulative effect of errors and omissions on the part of SLHF (and the surveyors and 
solicitors acting as its agents) over the entire process, it should have been possible to 
complete the purchase by 25 November 2022,. She recommended SLHF revert the 
mortgage to the terms of the 9 November 2022 offer, including the higher amount if Mr A and 
Mrs B confirmed they wanted it. She also proposed that SLHF pay Mr A and Mrs B £1,000 
compensation for their time, trouble and upset.
Mr A and Mrs B accepted the investigators recommendations, including confirming they 
would like the extra borrowing. SLHF made the point that the delays werent just confined to 
it and its agents. It pointed to shortcomings on the part of the actions of the solicitors acting 
for Mr A and Mrs B. However, SLHF also proposed an alternative settlement, whereby it 
would leave the mortgage as it is, and instead pay Mr A and Mrs B £2,500 in full and final 
settlement. We put SLHFs proposal to Mr A and Mrs B, who declined it. Accordingly, the 
case has been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. Were impartial, and we dont take either sides 
instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions on the complaint.
Despite the long and convoluted set of events that led to this complaint, my task in 
determining it is simpler than it might seem. Thats because I dont have to decide fault; 
SLHF has agreed that redress is due to Mr A and Mrs B; all I have to decide is what that 
redress should be.
SLHF has pointed out that other parties contributed to the problems and delays, and thats 
not in dispute. However, the test I have to apply is this: notwithstanding the contributions of 
other parties, but for the shortcomings of SLHF and its agents, could Mr A and Mrs Bs 
purchase have completed on or before 25 November 2022, thus allowing them to have the 
mortgage that was offered on 1 September 2022 and re-offered on 9 November 2022?
Having considered all of the evidence, and the timeline of events over the entire process  
which started as far back as April 2022  Im persuaded on the balance of probabilities that 
the answer to the above question is yes. It follows from this that as part of fair redress, I shall 
require SLHF to reconstruct Mr A and Mrs Bs mortgage on the basis that it still completed 
on 16 January 2023, but replacing the terms from the 20 December 2022 offer with those 
from the 9 November 2022 offer. 
That brings me to the question of compensation. The award proposed by our investigator 
was £1,000, which might seem on face value to be a lot of money. It certainly falls into the 
higher than average range of awards we typically make. But here, in the specific 
circumstances that apply here, I think its justified. 
Even in the best-ordered situation, some things can or will go wrong in such a complex 
transaction as a house purchase, and some degree of stress and inconvenience is to be 
expected. But the problems with this case, and the levels of stress they generated, went way 
beyond what might be regarded as normal for or expected for such a transaction. 
Added to that, I have also to consider how the impact of events on Mrs B was exacerbated 
by her underlying health problems. I dont reveal the details here, out of respect for her 
privacy, but Mrs B has produced ample medical evidence of how her condition has 
worsened over the events of the transaction to persuade me that £1,000 is justified.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct more 2 life 
Ltd trading as Standard Life Home Finance to do the following:
re-construct Mr A and Mrs Bs mortgage on the basis that it commenced on 16 January 
2023 with an opening balance of £223,499*, and is on a fixed for life interest rate of 
5.32%; and
pay Mr A and Mrs B £1,000 compensation.
*I ask Mr A and Mrs B, assuming they accept the final decision, to provide details of the bank 
account to which the additional borrowing should be paid. If the account in question is held in 
one of their names rather than both, then the non-account holder should expressly authorise 
payment into the account.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman