DRN-1239631
 
The complaint
Mrs R complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited (DAS) wrongly led 
her to believe she had legal expenses insurance cover when she wanted to make a claim.
What happened
Mrs R wanted to make a legal expenses claim through her home insurance policy. The 
administrator of her home policy transferred her through to DAS. DAS checked Mrs Rs 
postcode against its records and took down details about her claim. It sent out a letter 
explaining the claims process and what would happen next. 
But while DAS had matched Mrs Rs postcode to a policy on its system, it hadnt seen that 
the policy itd found actually related to a different house number, held by a different 
policyholder. The policy administrator let DAS know about this. But DAS didnt let Mrs R 
know at this point.
Mrs R called DAS for an update on her claim about 10 days later. It then told her it had 
carried out a cover check on the wrong address. It also confirmed that she didnt have a 
legal expenses policy. Mrs R was unhappy that DAS hadnt let her know earlier that she 
wasnt covered and that it had cover checked the wrong address. So she complained.
DAS said the initial mistake was made by the policy administrator, whod told her she had 
legal expenses cover and transferred her through. It said its claims process would usually 
take 5-6 working days and a cover decision wouldnt usually be made on day one. And it 
said even if Mrs R had had legal expenses cover, it was very unlikely her claim wouldve 
been covered by the terms of its legal expenses policy. Mrs R remained unhappy with DAS 
and asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think DAS was responsible for the initial mistake in telling Mrs R she 
had legal expenses cover when she didnt. But he did think DAS had made mistakes in 
dealing with Mrs Rs enquiry. So he initially recommended DAS pay Mrs R £60 for the 
trouble and upset shed been caused. DAS accepted the investigators recommendation, but 
Mrs R didnt. She felt this wasnt enough compensation for the emotional stress shed been 
through and the false hope shed been given. 
The investigator reconsidered the case and recommended that DAS should increase the 
trouble and upset payment to £100. DAS agreed with the investigators findings. But Mrs R is 
still unhappy with the proposed settlement. She thinks at least £500 would be a more 
reasonable amount, so she can put it towards paying for a solicitor to take on her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think £100 is fair compensation for the trouble and upset Mrs R suffered. 
Ill explain why.
Its clear Mrs R feels very let down by DAS. Shed hoped to be able to take legal action 
about a matter that was causing her a lot of upset and stress. And I dont doubt that DAS 
mistakes added to this at an already difficult time for her.
But I need to think carefully about what mistakes DAS made. And I need to make sure that 
any awards I make are commensurate with those mistakes. 
In Mrs Rs case, DAS didnt make the initial mistake in telling her she had legal expenses 
cover when she didnt. But when she was put through to DAS, it checked cover against the 
wrong address and wrongly let Mrs R think she did have legal expenses cover with it. It also 
sent her a letter suggesting it was looking into her claim.
I can understand why Mrs R thought she did have a policy and that her claim was being 
considered. This must have raised her expectations and led her to think there was a chance 
she might be able to get paid-for legal representation. 
From its notes, it seems DAS found out very shortly after its initial call with Mrs R that itd 
actually checked the wrong address and that she didnt have a policy. But it didnt tell her 
this until about 10 days later when Mrs R called in for an update. I think the right thing for 
DAS to have done wouldve been to have let Mrs R know she didnt have legal expenses 
cover as soon as it found out. It didnt. It let Mrs R think her claim was being looked into.
So its clear DAS did make mistakes. And I think its fair that Mrs R should be compensated 
for the trouble and upset these mistakes caused. But I do think £100 is a fair award. Mrs R 
didnt suffer any actual financial loss as a result of DAS mistakes. She suffered a loss of the 
expectation that she might be able to get legal representation for her case.
And I also need to think about the timeframes involved. Mrs R knew about DAS error about 
10 days after she first made the claim. DAS had told her it usually took 5-6 working days to 
assess whether or not a claim would be covered. So it seems to me that 10 days (taking into 
account weekends) is broadly in line with its usual timeframes for claims decisions. Even if it 
was slightly delayed by an extra day or two, I dont think this would warrant any more 
compensation.
I know Mrs R feels very strongly about this complaint. And Im sorry to hear about the impact 
this situation has had on an already tough time for her. But I dont think DAS can be held 
responsible for her situation. 
Putting things right
Overall, I think £100 fairly recognises the trouble and upset DAS mistake caused Mrs R. So 
thats what Im telling DAS to pay her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
I direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs R £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.Lisa Barham
Ombudsman