DRN-3326505
The complaint
Mr J complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) didnt fairly settle his claim under his 
motor insurance policy and he was unhappy he wasnt allowed to purchase his vehicle back 
from Aviva after it was declared a total loss. Mr J was unhappy with the courtesy car 
provided.
What happened
Mr J claimed on his policy following a non-fault accident. He had insured his car for 
£12,000 which was the purchase price he said hed paid for it. So, he was unhappy when 
Aviva only offered a claim settlement of £7,007 for his written-off car.
Aviva reviewed the claim and passed the valuation dispute to its technical claim engineers to 
provide a second opinion. Aviva said they have advised that in the event of a vehicle being 
deemed uneconomical to repair or stolen and unrecovered the settlement provided under 
the terms of the policy with Aviva is based on the market value of the vehicle at the time of 
loss. In reviewing this we have taken into consideration the mileage adjusted figures 
published by Glass's Guide, CAP and Parker's Guide, we have then researched the market-
place looking for similar vehicles to confirm the guide figures are a realistic representation of 
the market. The valuation of £7,007 does appear a bit low, we would suggest an increase to 
£7,895, this is our final response on the vehicle valuation.
Mr J said he wanted to keep his vehicle but was never given this opportunity.
Mr J said he has been unable to visit his family as he was only offered a two-wheel drive 
courtesy car and due to his circumstances he said he needed an all-wheel drive 4x4 
vehicle. Aviva said under the terms of your policy, you are not entitled to a courtesy vehicle 
in the event that yours is deemed uneconomical to repair as this is optional cover which was 
not selected. However, as the accident was not your fault, we referred to Enterprise for them 
to provide a vehicle similar to your own.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She checked Avivas market valuation 
for the vehicle against prices shown online for the motor trade and thought the settlement 
offered was fair. She didnt think Aviva had been made aware that Mr J wanted to keep his 
vehicle, so she didnt think it was unreasonable in following its normal process by disposing 
of it. She didnt think it was reasonable to hold Aviva to account for the type of courtesy car 
provided, as Mr J wasnt entitled to a courtesy car under the terms and conditions. Mr J 
disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will set out my thoughts for each of Mr Js points separately.
I have first considered the courtesy car that was provided to Mr J which he said wasnt 
suitable for his needs. Ive noted Mr J had specific needs due to his own circumstances. I 
have checked the policy to understand what Mr J was entitled to under his policy cover. I see 
a courtesy car is included as part of the standard cover of the policy in some circumstances. 
The policy entitles Mr J to a courtesy car if his car was repairable. Unfortunately, as Mr Js 
car was deemed beyond economic repair, he wouldnt have been entitled to a courtesy car. 
However, Aviva did try to accommodate Mr J by trying to arrange a courtesy car to help him. 
I think its a shame Aviva didnt go the extra mile to make sure the car could be used by Mr J 
in his circumstances. But, as the courtesy car wasnt an entitlement under the policy, I dont 
think its fair to uphold this part of the complaint.
Mr J was unhappy the settlement for his vehicle was some £4,000 or so lower than he 
expected. Aviva have explained the process it followed for gaining a market valuation for Mr 
Js car. 
Ive checked the policy to understand what settlement Mr J shouldve expected. The policy 
states the most we will pay will be the market value of your car at the time of the loss. 
Market value is defined in the policy as the cost of replacing your car with one of the same 
make, model, specification and condition. The market value may also be affected by other 
factors such as mileage, MOT status (if one is required), how you purchased your car and 
whether it has been previously declared a total loss.
Aviva looked at some independent price points provided by the industry. This is what I 
wouldve expected. I have checked these valuations using the resources available to our 
service. I think Aviva has provided a valuation at the top end of the benchmarks available for 
cars like the type of car, age and condition Mr J drove. Therefore, I think Aviva has been fair 
in the settlement it has provided Mr J and I think any insurer wouldve reached a similar 
conclusion. I appreciate Mr J insured his car for the value he paid for it. But under the policy, 
this isnt the value the policy would pay out. The policy pays out the market value of the car 
and I think Aviva has used a reasonable approach to determining this.
Finally, I have considered what Mr J said that he wasnt able to retain his car after the 
accident. Id usually expect an insurer to allow this. The vehicle is, after all, the consumer's 
property until the claim is settled and Mr J should have the right to keep it if he wishes to do 
so. So, I checked with Aviva why Mr J couldnt keep his vehicle. Aviva explained that its not 
its normal process to offer vehicles back to their policyholders after a car has been written 
off. Its not my role to judge how Aviva has defined and set-up its processes. However, I 
wouldve expected Aviva to allow Mr J to keep his vehicle had he asked for this.
Aviva have said it wasnt made aware of Mr Js desire to keep his vehicle. Mr Js testimony 
contradicts this as he said he had asked Aviva for this to happen. I have therefore 
considered the evidence that is available to me. I have reviewed Avivas notes and there are 
no notes showing that Mr J requested to keep his vehicle. I also have access to multiple 
calls between Aviva and Mr J. So, I have listened to these calls. I havent found any clear 
dialogue or reference on these calls that Mr J did request to keep his vehicle. Im not 
disputing Mr J wouldve liked to keep his vehicle. However, the parties disagree on what was 
discussed between them and I havent found any evidence to support Mr Js viewpoint. 
Therefore, in the absence of any evidence Im unable to uphold this complaint. I dont think it 
was likely Aviva were aware Mr J wanted to keep his vehicle, so I dont think its 
unreasonable it has followed its normal process in disposing of it. So, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint, I dont require Aviva Insurance 
Limited to do anymore.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman