DRN-2869346
The complaint
 Mr G complains about how AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited dealt with the
recovery of his car following an accident. 
What happened
 Mr G had a comprehensive insurance policy for his car with AA. On 29 October 2019 Mr Gs
car left the road and had to be recovered from a ditch. Mr G called AA to let them know what
had happened and they contacted one of their agents to arrange for the car to be recovered.
Theres a dispute between the parties as to exactly what happened regarding the recovery.
Mr G has told us that he was with his car when the recovery agent arrived. He says the
recovery vehicle didnt have a winch and the driver told him it would be better if his car was
winched out of the ditch, rather than pulled out, to prevent further damage.
Mr G says that he contacted AA to advise them of this. Mr G returned to his car when he
was told another recovery agent was attending, but once again the recovery vehicle didnt
have a winch, and the driver gave him the same advice. That it would be better if the car was
winched out of the ditch, rather than pulled.
Mr G contacted AA again as it was getting late and he was concerned that if his car was left
overnight it might be vandalised.
The agents AA instructed to recover Mr Gs car say they sent out two different vehicles,
equipped with winches to recover his car, but he wouldnt agree to it being winched, as he
wanted them to arrange a Hiab truck to lift his car out of the ditch.
So the car was left overnight and, as Mr G had anticipated might happen, it was vandalised.
He notified AA of the further damage and his car was recovered on 31 October 2019. Due to
the further damage his car was considered a total loss.
Mr G accepted the amount he was offered for his car. But he complained to AA as he said
they were responsible for the delay in arranging for his car being recovered, and had this 
been done on 29 October 2019, it wouldnt have been vandalised. As part of his complaint 
he said hed had to take a day off work to attend when his car was being recovered, and his 
sister had been inconvenienced as shed driven him back to his car twice. He said he 
wanted compensation for his loss of earnings and the inconvenience.
AA didnt uphold Mr Gs complaint. They said their agents had attended the scene with a
vehicle equipped with a winch twice, but hed refused to allow them to recover his car. So
they didnt accept they were responsible for the delay, or for the further damage to his car.
And they said his total loss payment had been dealt with promptly. AA later offered Mr G a
goodwill payment of £50, which he didnt accept.
Mr G wasnt happy with AAs response and complained to our service. Our investigator
considered his complaint and felt that, based on the available evidence, AA had met their
obligations in relation to the recovery of Mr Gs car, and werent responsible for any delay
that had occurred. He said he didnt disbelieve what Mr G had told us, but he felt that AA had
made efforts to try and resolve the issues, so theyd met their obligations.
Our investigator felt that £50 was a reasonable offer for any additional inconvenience Mr G
had suffered beyond that wed normally expect following an accident. And he agreed that AA
had dealt with Mr Gs total loss claim in a timely manner. So he didnt think AA needed to do
anything further.
Mr G didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case came to me for a decision.
After our investigator provided their opinion, we asked AA to provide the calls Mr G made
to them about his car. They havent been able to provide these. Theyve only provided a call
between two of their departments about the recovery of Mr Gs car.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 May 2021. In it I said: -
Its unfortunate that Mr G was correct, and his car was vandalised before it was recovered.
But AA have paid him the total loss value of his car, and hes confirmed that he was happy
with the payment he received. So Im looking at how AA dealt with his claim and whether the
£50 he was offered is appropriate compensation for the inconvenience he experienced.
Following an accident, if its necessary to make a claim, this is always going to involve some
inconvenience. So I need to consider whether the way in which AA dealt with the recovery of
Mr Gs car meant he experienced more than the usual level of inconvenience Id expect.
Mr G says that the delay in recovering his car is AAs fault, as they didnt arrange an
appropriate recovery vehicle to attend the accident scene.
AA say they sent appropriate recovery vehicles twice, but Mr G refused to allow his car to be
winched and demanded that a total uplift of his car be arranged. And by the time hed
refused the second attempted recovery, it was too late to arrange a further recovery that
day.
Weve asked for copies of the calls Mr G made to AA, but they havent been able to provide
these. Even though theyve provided a call between two of their departments, during which
one of their agents is trying to arrange a further recovery, and it appears that he has Mr G on
hold while this conversation is taking place.
The only other call AA have provided is a call made to the recovery agents for an update on
Mr Gs car. Once again it appears that Mr G was on hold, having called AA, but that part of
call hasnt been provided. The call lasts less than a minute and the recovery agent says
theyd already been out and Mr G refused to allow them to winch his car, as he wanted a
total uplift.
Ive looked at the contact notes provided by AA. These detail three calls from Mr G. The first
was on 29 October 2019 and says that the wrong recovery vehicle was sent. The second is
on 30 October 2019 when he called to say his car still hadnt been collected. And its noted
that he said the recovery driver refused to take the car as it couldnt just be pulled out of the
ditch. And the final note relates to a call on 31 October 2019 when Mr G reported that the car
had been vandalised.
Its not clear from the contact notes whether Mr G refused to allow his car to be recovered,
or whether AA had simply sent a recovery vehicle without a winch. And the calls that have
been provided dont help. So Im left with Mr Gs account that AA sent the wrong recovery
vehicle, and a partial call during which the recovery agent says Mr G wanted a total uplift ofhis car.
The terms and conditions of Mr Gs policy simply say that when a car is damaged, AA will
cover the cost of protection and taking it to nearest Insurer approved repairer or place of
storage. So they were responsible for arranging the recovery.
AA have said that Mr G refused to allow his car to be winched out of the ditch. And they
seem to have said this based on the brief call with someone from the recovery company. But
they havent been able to provide the calls in which Mr G is said to have insisted that they
arrange a total lift for his car.
Mr G has maintained throughout that AA sent two separate recovery vehicles that werent
equipped with winches. And I havent seen any evidence to contradict this. So I accept that
AA didnt do all that they could to arrange a prompt recovery of Mr Gs car. And as a result of
this I think hes suffered more inconvenience that Id expect following an accident. Hes had
to chase AA regarding the recovery and return to the accident scene several times. And hes
also had the distress of finding his car vandalised, and written off, when if it had been
recovered promptly, it would have been in a garage awaiting repair.
Once the car was recovered, I think AA dealt with the case as Id expect, and a total loss
payment was agreed with Mr G on 12 November 2019.
AA offered Mr G £50 to cover his travel expenses to the accident scene. I dont think this is
enough to compensate him for the trouble and upset he experienced. Taking everything into
account I think £250 is the appropriate level of compensation.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Gs complaint.
Since I issued my provisional decision Mr G has said he believes its convenient that AA 
cant supply the call recordings in which they say he refused to have his car recovered. He 
says this is because he never said this, he simply agreed with the recovery drivers about 
how his car should be recovered.
Hes also said that he believes he should receive more compensation than the £250 I 
considered appropriate, as hes had to get a new car as a result of AAs actions, and this has 
cost him far more.
AA havent responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive already commented on the calls AA have been able to provide copies of. Ive said I 
accepted Mr Gs account of what happened in relation to the recovery of his car, as AA told 
us they couldnt provide the calls in which they say he demanded a total uplift of his car.
Ive considered what Mr G has said about the level of compensation, but I still think £250 is 
the appropriate amount. I say this because I cant be sure what would have happened to Mr 
Gs car had it been recovered on the day of the accident.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint against AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited. 
And to put things right I require them to pay him £250 compensation for the trouble and 
upset hes experienced, as a result of how they dealt with the recovery of his car.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021. 
 
Patricia O'Leary
Ombudsman