DRN-3717755
The complaint
Mr L complains about the advice given by Cambrian Associates Limited, trading as 
Cambrian Chartered Financial Planners (Cambrian) to transfer the benefits from a defined-
benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme, the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ls employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members of the BSPS were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the PPF made the announcement that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement included that, if risk-related 
qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new pension scheme 
sponsored by Mr Ls employer would be set up  the BSPS2. The RAA was signed and 
confirmed in August 2017 and the agreed steps were carried out shortly after.
On 22 September 2017, the BSPS provided Mr L with an updated summary of the transfer 
value of his scheme benefits, following the RAA taking effect. These benefits had a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £348,482.15.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a time to choose letter which gave them 
the options to either stay in the BSPS and move with it to the PPF or move to the BSPS2 or 
transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere.
Also in October 2017, Mr L approached Cambrian to discuss his pension. Cambrian 
completed a fact-find to gather information about his circumstances and objectives. Mr L was 
41, in good health, married, with one dependent child. Mr L was employed full time, earning 
£37,000 per year. His household income exceeded his outgoings and the mortgage on his 
property was due to be repaid before he retired.
In addition to the benefits held in the BSPS, Mr L was also a member of his employers new 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme, to which he and his employer were making 
combined contributions equivalent to 16% of his salary.
Cambrian noted that Mr L hoped to retire early, around age 57 or 58. And he hoped to have 
the same net income as he currently received, less mortgage costs which hed no longer 
have  which at the time was approximately £1,450 per month. Cambrian said Mr L had lost 
trust in his employers handling of his pension and was interested in the lump sum death 
benefits a personal pension provided.
Cambrian also carried out an assessment of Mr Ls attitude to risk, which it deemed to be 
balanced. 
Cambrian advised Mr L to transfer his pension benefits from the BSPS into a personal 
pension and invest in one of the providers managed funds. Cambrian set out its analysis in 
a suitability report, which said the reasons for this recommendation were that it gave Mr L 
control over his pension, which was important because of the ongoing uncertainty and 
because he had lost faith in his employers management of the scheme. It said a transfer 
gave him flexibility in terms of how and when he took his pension benefits, so he could retire 
early and potentially obtain a higher income in retirement. And Cambrian said it also 
provided the potential for Mr L to leave his pension as a legacy for his family. The transfer 
went ahead in line with this recommendation.
Mr L complained in 2022 about the suitability of the transfer advice. He said hed recently 
received a letter from the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), about potential 
pension transfer mis-selling and he was now concerned the advice hed received was 
unsuitable. Mr L said Cambrian hadnt considered or discussed with him alternative options 
for meeting his goals, which he now felt were more appropriate. And hed given up valuable 
guarantees unnecessarily and had to pay ongoing fees he wouldnt have otherwise incurred.
Cambrian didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. It said the advice was suitable as it gave him the 
flexibility he wanted to access his pension early without incurring penalties and enabled him 
to retire early. 
Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our Investigators 
looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought the chances of Mr L 
improving his benefits by transferring were limited. And he didnt think, given his age at the 
time of the advice and what had been noted in the recommendation, that Mr L had definitive 
plans about what his retirement would look like. So, the Investigator didnt believe it was in 
Mr Ls interests to make an irreversible decision to transfer when he did. And he also didnt 
think the potential for alternative death benefits or any negative feelings Mr L mightve had 
about his employer, meant a transfer was suitable. So, he recommended that Cambrian 
compensate Mr L for any losses caused by the unsuitable advice and pay him £300 for the 
distress hed incurred.
Cambrian disagreed. It said it believed the advice was suitable based on Mr Ls 
circumstances and objectives and that a transfer was the only way Mr L could have retired at 
age 57 and met the level of income he expected to need. Cambrian also argued that the 
BSPS2 was not confirmed at the time of the advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Businesses (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Cambrian's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Cambrian should have only considered a transfer if it 
could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ls best interests. Having looked at all 
the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in his best interests, for the following reasons.
Cambrian was required to instruct a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report by the 
regulator. This included the calculation of critical yields  how much Mr Ls pension 
fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide the same benefits as his 
DB scheme.
The TVAS Cambrian has provided said that the critical yield was 6.57% to match the 
full pension Mr L would have been entitled to under the BSPS at age 65 (having said 
in the suitability report accessing tax-free cash was not important to him). Or, to 
match the pension the PPF wouldve paid from 65 the critical yield was 4.51%. The 
report also looked at the critical yields required to match the benefits Mr L wouldve 
been entitled to from age 57, which is when Cambrian said he hoped to retire. The 
critical yield to match the pension the BSPS wouldve paid from age 57 was said to 
be 8.17% and to match what the PPF would pay from 57 it was 5.99%.But Mr L did not have the option of retaining and taking the benefits due under the 
BSPS. Something which Cambrian was clearly aware of as it made reference to this 
in the suitability report. He either needed to move with the BSPS to the PPF or join 
the BSPS2 to retain his guaranteed benefits. But there was no analysis of the 
benefits that Mr L couldve received under the BSPS2 and critical yields were not 
calculated in reference to this. Revaluation and escalation rates were made available 
in the time to choose letters. Cambrian was providing advice at roughly the same 
time as those letters were issued. So, it is possible that Mr L had not received his, at 
the time he was speaking to Cambrian. But the transfer valuation issued to Mr L was 
valid until 22 December 2017. So, he couldve waited before making a decision to 
enable this analysis to be carried out. And, given the one-off nature of a DB transfer, 
I think Cambrian shouldve recommended he do so and carried out a TVAS looking 
at the BSPS2 benefits, so that Mr L could make an informed decision. 
Given what we know about the BSPS2, I think the critical yields to match the benefits 
it wouldve provided were likely to be between those of the BSPS and the PPF.
Cambrian has argued that the BSPS2 may not have gone ahead. But I think it is 
overstating the chance of this. The restructuring of the BSPS had been ongoing for a 
significant amount of time by the point it gave advice and instructed the TVAS. 
Actions had been agreed with the pensions regulator and carried out as scheduled  
not least a lump sum payment into the BSPS which enabled the provision of 
improved transfer value quotations in September 2017. So, based on what had 
happened to that point, I think the relevant parties, not least the trustees, were 
confident the BSPS2 would go ahead.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 
as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 
2017 similar rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our 
website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor. At the time, 
the relevant discount rate for 15 years to retirement (age 57) was 4.3% and for 23 
years to retirement (age 65) 4.6%.
There would be little point in Mr L giving up the guarantees available to him through 
his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here given Mr Ls balanced attitude to risk, the discount rates and 
considering the regulators standard projection rates at the time of 2%, 5% and 8% 
for low medium and high rate returns respectively, I think he was always unlikely to 
improve on the benefits hed have received under the BSPS2 or the PPF at the 
normal retirement age, by transferring. And if he had retired early, I think Mr L was 
likely to receive benefits of lower value than hed have been entitled to under the 
BSPS2 or the PPF.
Cambrian said Mr L wanted to retire from age 57 and expected to need an income of 
£17,600. It said transferring gave him the flexibility to access his benefits how he 
wanted to, without penalty, and was the only way he could achieve this level of 
income.
Mr L couldve taken benefits under the BSPS2 or the PPF from age 57. It is true that 
these wouldve been subject to actuarial reductions. But that was to reflect the fact 
that benefits wouldve been payable for longer than if he waited to his normal 
retirement age. This reduction was not a penalty.The TVAS report said that under the PPF Mr L couldve taken an annual pension of 
£14,078.90 at age 57  which was guaranteed and wouldve escalated. This was less 
than what Cambrian estimated he might require in retirement. But Mr L was also 
contributing to his employers new DC scheme through which he expected to build up 
additional pension benefits. And it is reasonable to expect hed have continued to 
build pension benefits, either through this scheme or with another employer if he 
moved roles, until he retired. So, he wouldve had these benefits to supplement his 
DB scheme benefits in retirement. And based on the level of contributions he was 
making to the DC scheme and that it was over 15 years until he mightve retired, and 
not even accounting for increases in salary, investment growth and Mr L making 
additional contributions, I think the value of the DC scheme, which Mr L wouldve 
been able to use flexibly, couldve topped up his DB scheme pension and enabled 
him to meet his required income. Alternatively, he couldve used the DC scheme 
flexibly to meet his entire income needs for several years and drawn the DB scheme 
benefits at a later point, when any actuarial reduction wouldve been lessened. So, I 
dont think Mr L needed flexibility.
And in any event, I dont think Mr Ls retirement plans were finalised. He was only 41 
at the time Cambrian gave him advice. He was over 15 years from age 57  when he 
apparently hoped to retire. And Cambrian noted in its recommendation that Mr Ls 
ideas about retirement were vague and that he thought it was difficult to know what 
he might want to do in the future. So, given his plans were, quite understandably, 
somewhat unknown and could change significantly in the time until he retired, I think 
it was too soon for Mr L to make an irreversible decision to transfer out of his DB 
scheme when he had the option of joining the BSPS2; by joining it he would retain 
the option to transfer out at a later date if his circumstances required it.
Cambrian said that the lump sum death benefits available through a personal 
pension were something Mr L was interested in. Notwithstanding that Cambrians 
role was to give objective advice, not to just put in place what Mr L mightve thought 
he wanted, the primary purpose of a pension is to provide for the holders needs in 
retirement. And the priority here was to advise Mr L about what was best for his 
retirement provisions. Mr L was relatively young and in good health, so there was no 
reason to believe he wouldnt be reliant on his pension to meet his own needs in 
retirement into his old age.
While the CETV figure would no doubt have appeared attractive as a potential lump 
sum, the sum remaining on death following a transfer was always likely to be 
different and wouldve been reduced by any income Mr L drew in his lifetime. So, it 
may not have provided the legacy Mr L mightve thought it would. And Mr Ls existing 
scheme provided a spouses pension, which was guaranteed, escalated and wasnt 
dependent on investment performance. 
Mr L had death in service benefits through his employer which in my view appears to 
have been a more appropriate method by which to leave a potential legacy to his 
family. And his DC scheme pension offered lump sum death benefits.If Mr L was concerned about leaving a further legacy for his family, life insurance was 
an option. Cambrian said in the suitability report that whole of life cover equivalent to 
the CETV of his BSPS benefits would cost £240 per month and had been discounted 
because of this. But the information it has provided indicates that this may have been 
available from a different provider for much less  around £73 per month. That 
notwithstanding, basing the quote on the transfer value of Mr Ls pension benefits 
essentially assumed that he would pass away on day one following the transfer, and 
that isnt realistic. So, the starting point ought to have been to ask Mr L how much he 
would ideally like to leave to his family, and this couldve been explored on a whole of 
life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr L. And ultimately 
Cambrian should not have encouraged Mr L to prioritise the potential for alternative 
death benefits through a personal pension over his security in retirement.
I think Mr Ls desire for control over his pension was overstated. I cant see that he 
had an interest in or the knowledge to be able to manage his pension funds on his 
own. And the recommendation seems to have been on the understanding he was 
going to take ongoing advice about how his pension was invested, at additional cost. 
So, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr L  it was simply a 
consequence of transferring away from his DB scheme.
I dont doubt that Mr L was likely to have been upset by what had happened with his 
pension to that point. Or that he had negative feelings about his employer and 
mightve thought moving his pension away from it was appropriate. I think that would 
have been a very natural emotional response to what had happened. But again, 
Cambrians role was to give impartial, objective advice. Mr Ls employer and pension 
scheme were not one and the same. And Mr L intended to continue in his job and 
was paying into a new DC scheme with his employer. So, the relationship may not 
have been as irretrievably broken down as suggested.
Mr L may have held concerns about the prospect of his deferred benefits entering the 
PPF. But there had been a number of key announcements that all pointed toward the 
BSPS2 being established as an alternative. This was expected to provide better 
benefits than the PPF and still provide Mr L the option to transfer closer to retirement. 
But even if this hadnt happened, the PPF still provided Mr L with guaranteed income 
and the option of accessing his benefits early. Mr L was unlikely to substantially 
improve on these benefits by transferring. So, entering the PPF was not as 
concerning as he mightve thought, and I dont think any concerns he held about this 
meant that transferring was in his best interest.
Overall, I cant see persuasive reasons why it was clearly in Mr Ls best interest to give up 
his DB benefits and transfer them to a personal pension.
Cambrian says that Mr L made an informed decision to transfer and that it doesnt believe he 
wouldve accepted advice not to do so. But Mr L was an inexperienced investor and this 
pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provisions at the time. While he sought 
advice from Cambrian, I think this was because of the uncertainty around the BSPS, not 
because hed already made up his mind what to do. I can see that Cambrian did give 
information about some of the risks involved in a transfer, when it made its recommendation. 
But ultimately, it advised Mr L to transfer. And I think he relied on that advice. And I havent 
seen anything to persuade me that Mr L wouldve insisted on transferring, against advice to 
remain in the DB scheme.As a result, Im upholding this complaint as I think the advice Mr L received from Cambrian 
was unsuitable.
As Ive said, I think it was clear to all parties at the time of the advice that the BSPS2 was 
likely to go ahead. Mr L had over 15 years before he reached the age at which hed indicated 
he might like to retire. But, as Ive explained, I think his plans were in any event unconfirmed. 
I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept the reduction in benefits he 
would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't necessarily be offset by the 
more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting into the BSPS2, Mr L 
wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he 
needed to. Also, under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would be set at 50% of his pension 
at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement 
(even if one was ultimately taken). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2. So, I think, had he received suitable advice 
not to transfer, Mr L wouldve opted into the BSPS2. 
Our Investigator recommended that Cambrian make a payment for the distress caused to 
Mr L. I accept that Mr L has likely been worried to find that the advice might not have been 
suitable for him. And given the circumstances and uncertainty under which he first asked for 
this advice, I dont doubt he has been concerned. This wouldn't have occurred but for the 
advice that is the subject of this complaint. So, in the circumstances, I think the 
recommended award of £300 is fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Cambrian to put Mr L, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr L would have 
most likely remained in the occupational pension scheme and opted to join the BSPS2 if 
suitable advice had been given. 
Cambrian must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Cambrian should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr L and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation together with supporting evidence of what Cambrian based the inputs into 
the calculator on.
For clarity, Mr L has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ls 
acceptance of the decision.If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Cambrian should:
calculate and offer Mr L redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr L before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
his personal pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr L receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr L accepts Cambrians offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr L for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ls end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr L as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Cambrian 
may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Ls 
likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction 
of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
In addition, Cambrian should pay Mr L £300 for the distress caused by the disruption to his 
retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £170,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £170,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Cambrian Associates 
Limited, trading as Cambrian Chartered Financial Planners, to pay Mr L the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £170,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £170,000, I also recommend that 
Cambrian Associates Limited pays Mr L the balance.
If Mr L accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Cambrian Associates 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr L can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr L may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman