DRN-2810363
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what Great Lakes Insurance SE did after he made a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
All references to Great Lakes include its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr C has had legal expenses insurance with Great Lakes since November 2017. The 
following year he had a boundary dispute with his neighbour. Great Lakes were told about a 
potential claim in September 2018 and Mr C says he submitted a claim form at that time. 
This didnt progress at that time.  
Mr Cs solicitors contacted Great Lakes in May 2020 to pursue the claim and provided 
copies of recent correspondence with the neighbours solicitors. Great Lakes asked for 
further information on the history of the dispute as it was concerned it might predate the 
policy start date. Further information was provided but Great Lakes said it wasnt sufficient to 
assess this. In response to the complaint Mr C made Great Lakes said it thought the 
information requests it had made were reasonable but if the requested information was 
provided it would consider it. 
After the complaint had been made to us additional correspondence about the background 
to the dispute was provided. Great Lakes reviewed this and said it thought the dispute did 
predate the policy start date. In addition, it was unclear if the claim would have reasonable 
prospects of success or be proportionate to pursue. 
Our investigator said she thought it was reasonable of Great Lakes to have asked for this 
information. But she didnt agree the claim predated the policy. While there were clearly 
issues between Mr C and his neighbour prior to that these related to other issues and didnt 
involve a dispute over the boundary. And even if the claim had been notified late she didnt 
think Great Lakes had been prejudiced by that. 
She agreed it would nevertheless need to have reasonable prospects of success and be 
proportionate to pursue but that would need to be assessed by a suitably qualified lawyer. 
She said Great Lakes should consider the claim in line with the remaining terms of the 
policy. If cover was agreed Great Lakes should cover the reasonable costs Mr C incurred in 
protecting his position from 9 March 2021 (the date it turned down the claim).
Mr C agreed. Great Lakes didnt. It still thought the dispute predated the policy. It was clear 
Mr Cs neighbour believed there to be a dispute prior to that and Great Lakes thought it likely 
hed have raised that with Mr C. Even if that wasnt the case and the event was in 2018 Mr C 
hadnt pursued matters for two years after that and there was then further delay in providing 
the information it requested. It argued this had prejudiced its position because it made it 
more difficult to establish what the date of occurrence actually was. 
And it said there was in any case no expert opinion from Mr C to establish the location of the 
boundary, whether there was trespass and what the value of any claim would be. So I need 
to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I appreciate the complaint Mr C originally brought to us was about whether it was reasonable 
for Great Lakes to ask him for additional information about this claim. However, since then 
his solicitors have provided further correspondence about what happened prior to the policy 
start date. Great Lakes has said it believes the claim Mr C is making occurred prior to that. 
From the correspondence Ive seen it appears Great Lakes accepted we could consider this 
issue. In any case Im satisfied we can because Great Lakes has been aware of Mr Cs 
disagreement with its decision for more than eight weeks. 
Was it reasonable of Great Lakes to ask Mr C for more information about his claim?
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Cs policy. I can see this contains a general 
condition which says the policyholder must provide any information requested by Us, the 
Authorised Representative or the Claims Administrator as soon as possible. In this case 
following the correspondence from Mr Cs solicitors it asked for further information on the 
background to what happened. I think that was reasonable, particularly as the letter the 
solicitors initially sent did suggest matters had been ongoing for some time. 
And I dont think the information and timeline the solicitors then sent did provide sufficient 
information on the background to the dispute. So I think it was reasonable of Great Lakes to 
question this further. I appreciate that obtaining the information took some time but I dont 
think that delay was because of something Great Lakes got wrong. 
Has Great Lakes fairly turned down the claim Mr C made?
Mr Cs policy says it doesnt cover any matter which did not occur during the Period of 
Insurance. Great Lake has suggested its ability to consider this has been prejudiced 
because of the time taken by Mr C to pursue it. However, it does appear Mr C made a claim 
in September 2018. Ive seen an acknowledgement he was sent at that time and that claim 
was logged within the timeframe set out in the policy for doing so. It isnt clear why that 
wasnt pursued but as a claim was logged I think Great Lakes had the opportunity to look 
into these issues at that time. So I dont it can fairly turn down the claim on the grounds of 
prejudice. 
In any case I think it is possible to decide from the available evidence whether the claim 
occurred within the period of insurance. So Ive gone on to think about that.  In doing so Ive 
taken into account our normal approach which is to consider not only what the event giving 
rise to the legal action is but what the consumer knew (or should reasonably have known) 
about that when they took the policy out. In this case I think the incident giving rise to potential legal action is the boundary dispute. 
And its clear Mr C was aware of a boundary dispute from at least July 2018 because he 
wrote to his neighbours solicitor at that time (in response to a letter they sent earlier that 
month). In that letter he agreed to arrange for the erection of a new fence but disputed the 
proposed location as he said this is not the boundary. 
So the question is whether theres evidence to show Mr C was aware of the dispute over the 
position of the boundary earlier than that and before the policy start date in November 2017. 
Its clear Mr C and his neighbours have had issues for some years. I understand there was a 
disagreement over a proposed extension at their property in 2015 and Ive seen 
correspondence from 2016 from the neighbour raising concerns about damage to a fence 
and rubbish. But I cant see anything in that correspondence which would have made Mr C 
aware the location of the boundary was being questioned. 
I appreciate there is correspondence between the neighbour and his own solicitor about this 
in September 2017. That does reference questions over the likely location of the boundary. 
But the focus of that letter is on whether an insurance claim the neighbour has made meets 
the terms of their own policy. Ive not seen anything to show Mr C was made aware of a 
dispute over the boundary at that time. In fact what then appears to have happened is the 
neighbour instructed a surveyor who reported in February 2018. That report is referenced in 
a letter before claim sent to Mr C in July 2018. But theres no indication in the reasonably 
detailed history section of the letter that this issue had been raised previously. 
Great Lakes believes a note of a telephone call between Mr Cs solicitor and the neighbour 
from October 2019 also supports its position. Ive reviewed that and I can see it does record 
the neighbour as saying this has been going on for about 4/5 years. But its not clear 
whether that was a reference to the boundary issue specifically or a more general comment 
on the various issues that Mr C and his neighbour have been in dispute over. 
As set out above Mr C has had difficulties with his neighbour (separate to any issues with 
the boundary) dating back to around 2015 which matches with the timeframe his neighbour 
referenced in this call. So I dont think this note does show Mr C was aware of a boundary 
dispute when he took out this policy. I think its more likely this is an issue he became aware 
of following a fire on the boundary in May 2018 and the discussions that then took place 
about the reinstatement of the boundary fence. 
I recognise there remain outstanding issues as to whether the claim has reasonable 
prospects of success and is proportionate to pursue. But whether the claim has prospects of 
success is something that should be assessed by a suitably qualified and experienced 
lawyer. I think it likely legal input will also be required on whether its proportionate to pursue. 
Of course I accept Mr C may need to provide evidence in support of both points and I 
understand he has now spoken to his own surveyor about the position of the boundary. Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained I dont think Great Lakes has shown its fairly turned down the 
claim Mr C made. So it will need to consider the claim under the remaining terms of the 
policy and obtain a legal assessment on whether it has reasonable prospects of success and 
is proportionate to pursue. 
Our investigator also said that if the claim is covered Great Lake should reimburse Mr C for 
the reasonable legal costs hes incurred in protecting his position since the decision to turn 
down his claim was taken in March 2021. However, Mr C subsequently told us that he hasnt 
incurred any costs in relation to that. So this isnt something I need to direct Great Lakes to 
do.  
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman