DRN-3786661
The complaint
Mr I complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund all the money he lost to an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
In April 2022, Mr I ordered a wig, as a present for his partner, via a well-known social media 
platform. He paid £300 for this via bank transfer. But the wig didnt arrive. And when he 
messaged the seller chasing a response, they stopped replying. He reported to Monzo that 
he thought he had been scammed.
Although not a signatory, Monzo has committed to following the standards of the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. This requires firms to 
reimburse customers who fall victim to APP scams unless they can show an exception 
applies under the code. 
Monzo looked into Mr Is claim in line with the CRM code. But it said an exception applied as 
he hadnt taken reasonable steps to check who he was paying. It also paid him £25 for some 
service issues during the claim. 
After complaining to Monzo about this outcome, Mr I referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator thought Monzo should refund him in full. They didnt agree with Monzos 
argument that Mr I had ignored an effective warning. And they thought he did have a 
reasonable basis for believing he was paying a legitimate seller. 
Monzo has appealed the investigators outcome. It says there were factors which ought to 
have prompted Mr I to complete some due diligence before making this payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why:
Monzo accepts that Mr I was scammed. And its agreed to follow the terms of the CRM code. 
So Id expect it to refund him unless it can show that an exception within the code applies. In 
this case the relevant exceptions are: 
The customer ignored an effective warning from the bank by failing to take 
appropriate steps in response to that warning; or 
The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that: the 
payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
While Monzo has shown us that Mr I would have seen a scam warning when making this 
payment, Im not satisfied this can be deemed effective in line with the CRM code. It didnt 
contain anything specific to the scam he fell victim to. So I dont think it ought to have 
prompted him to take further steps in response to seeing the warning.  
It seems Monzos main reason for not refunding Mr I is that it doesnt think he had a 
reasonable basis of belief. But I cant see anything obvious which reasonably ought to have 
alerted him that the seller might be a scammer. 
The seller had a page for their business on a well-known social media platform commonly 
used for shopping. This looked professional. They posted many photographs, in a consistent 
format, of the wigs they were allegedly selling  which received lots of positive engagement. 
And they had a high number of followers. I think that all gave Mr I reasonable reassurance 
that they were operating legitimately. 
Monzo argues it should have rung alarm bells that the social media platform offers card 
payments, but Mr I was directed to pay by bank transfer. Bearing in mind why Ive found it 
was reasonable for him to have trusted the seller, Im not persuaded that alone ought to 
have undermined his reasonable basis for belief. He messaged the seller about his order 
and asked about how we should pay  and simply followed the instructions given.
Monzo also says the seller has two websites, has changed business names, and uses a 
public Gmail address. Again, Im not persuaded that ought to have alerted Mr I that the 
seller might not be legitimate. There was only one website mentioned on the page he bought 
from, which matched the name of the page. And more widely, I dont think these factors 
seemed particularly alarming for how a small business might operate. 
In this case, Im satisfied the information Mr I relied on from the sellers page, and his 
interaction with them, gave him a reasonable basis of belief. In line with the CRM code, 
Monzo should therefore refund him for this payment. 
While this doesnt appear to be the main focus of Mr Is complaint, for completeness, Ive 
looked at the £25 compensation Monzo paid for its service failings. Ive seen no suggestion 
this wasnt a fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience it caused him. So Im not 
increasing this award. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Monzo 
Bank Ltd must refund Mr I for the £300 he lost to the scam. It should pay 8% simple interest 
on this amount from the date of payment to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully 
deductible). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman