DRN-4406672
The complaint
Miss B complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs response to various events dating back to the 
1990s and relating primarily to insurance she took out through them.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
In short, Miss B says she made claims under her home insurance policy in 1991, 1992, 
1995, 1998 and at an unspecified time in the same period. She also made a claim for legal 
assistance in a case against her employer  again in the 1990s. 
She says Lloyds, who sold her the policy, did nothing to assist her with those claims.
She says she was robbed in a Lloyds Bank branch in 2022 and staff did nothing to assist her 
or to prevent the robbery. 
And she says Lloyds have unfairly discriminated against her on racial and religious grounds. 
Miss B has complained to Lloyds about all of these matters except the alleged robbery in 
2022. Lloyds didnt uphold her complaint.
Miss B wasnt happy with this and brought her complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Miss B disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with the events relating to Miss Bs insurance claims in the 1990s first.
Normally, were unable to consider complaints brought to a business (and then to us) more 
than six years after the events in question or three years after the complainant became 
aware they had cause to complain. 
Nor can we consider complaints brought to us more than six months after a business gave 
the complainant their final response to the complaint.
The events in the 1990s Miss B complains about are clearly more than six years ago. 
However, Lloyds have no records relating to any complaints Miss B may have brought to 
them in that period. 
This is entirely understandable given that all businesses have to delete records after a 
period of time to comply with legal Data Protection requirements. 
However, it does mean that its conceivable that Miss B complained to Lloyds within six 
years of each event. 
And that they didnt provide her with a final response (or responses) to any complaints she 
made  so not triggering the start of the six month period Miss B has to being her 
complaint(s) to us if she remains dissatisfied.
So, despite the age of these events, we have to assume Miss Bs complaint is within our 
jurisdiction. We have explained this position to Lloyds. 
That said, there is no evidence at all of any wrong-doing on Lloyds part when Miss B made 
these various insurance claims. Lloyds werent the underwriter for Miss Bs policy and they 
wouldnt have made the claim decisions about which Miss B appears to be concerned.
Miss Bs own recollections appear to be at best rather vague about what part Lloyds played. 
And, as I say, there is absolutely no other evidence to suggest Lloyds acted in any way 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss B.
Similarly, theres no evidence available at present to suggest that Lloyds have discriminated 
against Miss B on grounds of religion or race. 
Miss B hasnt pointed to any particular action(s) or omission(s) that she thinks may 
demonstrate such discrimination. And it appears from the evidence we have that Lloyds 
handling of Miss Bs recent complaint to them has been professional, polite and at all times 
justified by the facts and information before them.
Miss Bs allegation is of course a very serious one and should be fully and properly 
considered. 
If Miss B has any further information or evidence which might substantiate her allegations of 
discrimination and/or allow Lloyds to investigate them, Im sure Lloyds will consider that. But 
as things stand, I cant justifiably say that Lloyds have acted unfairly towards Miss B.
Miss B hasnt complained to Lloyds about the alleged failure of their staff to act when she 
was robbed in their branch in 2022 (less than six years ago). 
So, we cant consider that issue as yet. The FCAs dispute resolution (or DISP) rules, which 
govern the way our service operates, say that we cant consider a complaint unless and until 
the business concerned has had a chance to consider it  and potentially resolve it  first 
(unless the business consents to our doing so).
That complaint may not fall within our jurisdiction in any case since its not immediately clear 
that its about a regulated activity - or the provision of a financial service. But Miss B is 
entitled in future to bring to us any complaint shes already brought to Lloyds, should she 
wish to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 November 2023.
 
Neil MarshallOmbudsman