DRN-3276639
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Alphabet (GB) Ltd (Alphabet) failed to provide her with information 
about her payment deferral and incorrectly recorded a missed payment on her credit file, in 
relation to her hire agreement with them.
What happened
In August 2020 Mrs T hired a car through a hire agreement with Alphabet. Mrs T paid an 
initial rental of £500 which meant there were 47 subsequent rentals of £458.49.
In January 2021 Mrs T requested a payment deferral from Alphabet. In an email sent to 
Alphabet Mrs T explained that her income was affected as a result of the Covid -19 
pandemic. Mrs T says Alphabet put that in place over the following three months. Mrs T says 
she never received any terms or conditions about the payment deferral but was told by 
Alphabet to contact them after three months to reinstate her direct debit. 
When her repayments were reinstated, Mrs T said she was surprised that they had 
increased by £36 each month to cover the deferral period. Mrs T says she believed the term 
of her agreement would be extended.
Alphabet confirmed that the deferred payments were for January to March 2021. They also 
confirmed that Mrs Ts payments had increased by £34.39 following the payment deferral, 
and that they hadnt discussed with Mrs T about how the payment holiday would be repaid.
Mrs T complained that Alphabet never explained that her monthly repayments would 
increase, and that had she known, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the payment deferral. 
She also said her credit file was showing as a payment missed which she didnt think would 
happen for payment holidays. Mrs T said to resolve her complaint she wants the three 
months outstanding payments to be cleared and her credit file rectified.
In May 2021, Alphabet provided their final response to Mrs Ts complaint. They upheld her 
complaint, as they confirmed the process in place for repaying the payment deferral wasnt 
explained to Mrs F; and despite explaining to Mrs F that her credit file wouldnt be affected 
by the payment deferral, theyd incorrectly reported a late payment on her credit file for April 
2021. 
Alphabet advised that despite upholding the complaint they werent able to add the payment 
deferral to the end of the agreement, however they said Mrs T could either pay the payment 
holiday amount in full or spread it over the remainder of the agreement. They also offered 
Mrs T £100 in compensation for the service they provided her with.
Mrs T responded to Alphabet rejecting their offer of compensation, and said she felt it was 
an insult to her. Alphabet increased their offer to £200, although Mrs T declined the offer, 
Alphabet confirmed the payment had been made to Mrs Ts bank account.
In May 2021 Mrs T brought her complaint to this service for investigation. Our investigator 
gave their view that Alphabet had fairly compensated Mrs T, for not explaining the terms of 
the payment deferral with her and for incorrectly reporting a missed payment on her credit 
file. Our investigator didnt think Alphabet needed to take any further action. 
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mrs T responded to say that it was Alphabets 
responsibility to inform her of the terms of repayment, however as our investigators view 
remained unchanged, Mrs T asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement. As such, this service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it.
Both parties have agreed that Alphabet failed to inform Mrs T about the terms of her 
payment deferral at the time she requested it. Neither does either party dispute that 
Alphabet incorrectly recorded a missed payment on Mrs Ts credit file. What appears to be 
in dispute here is whether Alphabet has reasonably resolved things for Mrs T.
In July 2020, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) published finalised guidance for 
businesses in relation to motor finance agreements. The guidance was applicable in the 
exceptional circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic and the impact it had on 
motor finance consumers. The intention of the guidance was to provide help to consumers 
who were experiencing temporary difficulty in making their finance or lease payments due to 
a loss or reduction in their income. 
The guidance says: 
A firm should ensure that the manner in which it seeks to recover any sums that have 
accrued during the payment deferral is compatible with Principle 6 which says: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly'
So, to decide if Alphabet have acted fairly here, Ive considered whether it was in Mrs Ts 
best interest for Alphabet to spread the deferred payments over the remainder of the 
agreement, rather than allowing Mrs T to repay it at the end by extending the agreement 
period. Ive also considered whether the amount of compensation paid by Alphabet is fair in 
the circumstances.
Mrs T entered into a hire agreement with Alphabet. This means Mrs T doesnt take 
ownership of the vehicle at any stage, as she is hiring it for a specific period of time. 
Alphabet confirmed to us that as a business, theyre not in a position to add deferred rental 
payments after an agreement has ended. So, If Alphabet were to extend the term of the 
agreement by three months to allow Mrs T to repay the deferred amount during the 
extension period, in effect Mrs T would be getting three months, rental free use of the car, 
which I dont think would be reasonable or fair. So, Im satisfied that extending the 
agreement isnt a feasible option in the circumstances of this complaint.In December 2021 Alphabet told our investigator that Mrs T wasnt required to pay the three-
month deferrals up front and that she could arrange a payment plan with them. They went on 
to say that Mrs T does have the option to make the payments or make token payments if she 
wished.
I think Alphabets approach here is consistent with the FCA guidance and in line with their 
principals. I say this because theyve demonstrated their willingness to be flexible, within 
their scope of available options, in recovering the payment deferral amount. So, Im 
satisfied that Alphabet have acted fairly and in Mrs Ts interest in the options theyve given 
Mrs T to repay the deferred amount.
In relation to Mrs Ts credit file, Alphabet confirmed they made an error in reporting the 
missed payment, however theyve also confirmed to us that this was rectified. In her 
complaint form Mrs T has said she wanted her credit file corrected. I acknowledge that 
Alphabet made the mistake even though they told Mrs T in an email her credit file wouldnt 
be affected, however Im satisfied they acted fairly, in that when they were made aware of 
the error by Mrs T, they corrected it without undue delay, as confirmed in their final 
response. 
When Mrs T made the payment deferral request, businesses and consumers were facing 
an unusual and unprecedented challenge as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. Many 
businesses were dealing with significant numbers of consumer enquiries and likewise many 
consumers were having to deal with unprecedented personal and financial challenges as 
the global pandemic unfolded. Mrs T described how she felt about making the request and 
Im sorry to learn about how difficult that situation was for her. 
Alphabet explained the challenges they faced as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, and 
the lengths they went to in order to support their various teams to deliver on the demand 
from their customers. So, Ive taken the exceptional circumstances of the global pandemic 
and how it affected each party into account when considering whether the compensation 
offered by Alphabet was fair.
In their final response to Mrs T, Alphabet offered Mrs T £100 for not providing her with 
information about the payment deferral, they then increased their offer to £200. Mrs T says 
the £200 is insufficient because Alphabet should have provided her with a letter detailing 
the terms of the payment deferral. Mrs T also says the whole matter has caused her worry 
and distress and believes Alphabet should waive the three-month payment deferral 
amount.
In the circumstances, I think expecting Alphabet to waive the 3 months as compensation is 
excessive. Im satisfied that Mrs T knew when she requested the payment deferral that 
shed have to repay it at some point, so I think its fair that Alphabet expects her to do so. 
However, I think its also fair to recognise the distress and inconvenience this lack of 
information would have caused her. Ive seen no evidence that Mrs T has lost out 
financially or materially as a result of not having the information, and so I think £200 is fair 
in the circumstances to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs T. Mrs T 
has confirmed to us that shes received the £200, so I wont be instructing Alphabet to pay 
anything more.
Alphabet has advised that any outstanding deferred payments, that are not part of a 
payment plan may be recorded on Mrs Ts credit file going forward. Given that Ive found 
Alphabet has acted fairly in the circumstances, Mrs T may decide to contact Alphabet to 
arrange and agree to an affordable and suitable repayment plan for any outstanding 
deferred payments.My final decision
To settle the complaint Alphabet (GB) Ltd paid £200 compensation to Mrs T and corrected 
her credit file to remove the missed payment information. I think this is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, Im not going to ask Alphabet (GB) Ltd to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 July 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman