DRN-3773306
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K are represented by Mr B. He complains on their behalf that, under their home 
insurance HDI Global Specialty SE declined a claim for storm damage to their roof and 
delayed in dealing with their claim for accidental damage to the internal areas of their home. 
I understand the claim was dealt with by the broker service and/or loss adjusters, but in this 
decision for convenience, unless I say otherwise I shall refer to the business as HDI.
What happened
On 9 January 2022 Mr and Mrs K discovered that a large portion of a flat roof of one of their 
dormer windows was damaged, leading to water getting into the home. Mr K tried ringing the 
home emergency helpline but was told his home insurance wasnt active. Mr K established 
with his bank that he had paid the premium, and HDI accepted the policy was active. It sent 
out a loss adjuster on 17 January 2022. Mr and Mrs K were told the damage to the roof 
wasnt covered under the policy, because HDI said there wasnt a storm. But the internal 
damage was accepted as Accidental Damage.
HDI emailed Mr B a copy of its final response letter on 31 January, but he didnt receive it 
then as it was emailed to the wrong address. At the same time, in an email also sent to the 
wrong address, Mr B was advised that Mr and Mrs K could either have a cash settlement or 
they could send in a quotation for the work.
Mr B chased up the matter in March 2022 and received a copy of the final response letter. 
He didnt however receive the letter asking for a quotation. He chased up the matter in May 
but wasnt finally contacted by the loss adjusters until early July 2022. At that time Mr K was 
contacted despite Mr Bs authority to act being noted on the file.
HDI issued a further final response letter on 11 July 2022. In that letter it apologised for the 
delays and for contacting Mr K directly. It agreed to pay £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator proposed that HDI pay total 
compensation of £500, i.e. £300 more than it had offered.
HDI didnt agree, so the matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I understand that Mr and Mrs K received payment from the broker in respect of the 
problems over the Home Emergency Cover. That concerns a different insurer and Mr B has 
confirmed he doesnt want to make a further complaint about it.
Secondly I understand that some further issues arose during the actual repairs. As this was 
after the final response letter I wont deal with those here, though Mr B is I believe aware that 
it is open to him to make a further complaint to HDI.
damage to the roof
As our investigator said, when considering complaints about claims for storm damage we 
ask three questions, and its only if the answer to all three of those questions is yes that 
wed be likely to uphold the complaint. The questions are:
1.  Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to     
have happened?
2.    Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
With regard to the first question, storm conditions have to have happened at or around the 
time the damage was alleged to have occurred. Storm is defined in the policy as:
A period of violent weather defined as: wind speeds with gusts of at least 48 knots (55 mph, 
equivalent to storm force 10 on the internationally recognised Beaufort Scale), or torrential 
rainfall at a rate of at least 25mm per hour, snow to a depth of at least one foot (30 cms) in 
24 hours or hail of such intensity that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass.
From the weather records it would appear that, around the time of the claim, the maximum 
windspeed recorded was 33mph and the maximum hourly rainfall about 3.4 mm. Even 
without that definition we would not consider such conditions to amount to storm conditions. 
So I dont think that there were storm conditions around the time of the claim. 
As the answer to the first question is no, I havent gone on to consider the other two 
questions.
I have considered whether any other part of the policy would have covered the roof damage 
but from the evidence it appears that the flat roof section was 20 years old, probably well 
beyond the length of time that such a roof would be expected to last. And the flashing 
section where the rain entered was covered in moss and debris. Its likely that this was a 
maintenance issue which wouldnt be covered under the policy.
internal damage
The claim for damage caused by rain entering was accepted by HDI. As Ive said after the 
visit on 17 January 2022, Mr and Mrs K were informed verbally that the damage to the roof 
wasnt covered. HDI contacted Mr B on 25 January 2022 by email sending both its final 
response letter and a letter offering a cash settlement or asking Mr B to obtain a quotation.
Mr B didnt receive that email as it was sent to the wrong email address (HDI had Mr Bs 
correct email address on file). Mr B chased the matter up in March and received a copy of 
the final response letter on 9 March. However he didnt receive the other letter so had to 
chase the matter up again. He emailed HDI on 6 May and I see HDI chased up the loss 
adjusters on 18 May. It emailed them again on 8 June asking them to call Mr B back. Its 
evident that this wasnt done until 4 July when Mr B was able to advise that Mr and Mrs K 
wanted HDI to arrange the repairs because of Mr Ks age and medical vulnerabilities. The 
claim proceeded after that with HDI offering the £200 compensation Ive mentioned above.
I think there were serious delays in arranging the internal repairs to Mr and Mrs Ks home, 
caused firstly by the error in sending the email to the wrong address and then in the loss adjusters failing to get back in touch with Mr B despite being chased up by HDI to do so and 
failing to return Mr Bs calls. As a result it was over five months before the claim could really 
start to move forward.
contacting Mr K directly 
I understand that following the loss adjusters having spoken to Mr B on 4 July 2022 HDIs 
contractor contacted Mr K directly. I assume this would be because the information about his 
vulnerability and Mr B acting failed to be passed on. This caused Mr K some distress, 
although I appreciate that HDI apologised for this.
overall
I think HDI fairly declined the claim for the damage to the roof, but that it was responsible for 
serious delays and miscommunications concerning the arranging of the repairs in respect of 
the internal damage.
compensation
I have considered what compensation award to make. I think an award of £500 is 
appropriate. I have taken into account the long delay in getting the claim even started and in 
particular Mr Ks vulnerability. Ive also taken into account Mr K being contacted directly. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs K didnt have to do the chasing up themselves. Nevertheless such an 
award might be appropriate where the impact of a businesss mistake has caused 
considerable distress, upset and worry. And where the impact lasts over many weeks or 
months. I think that was the case here.
If HDI has already made the £200 payment (and Im not clear if it has), it need only pay a 
further £300.
Putting things right
HDI should pay Mr and Mrs K £500 compensation, taking into account any payment already 
made.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require HDI Global Specialty SE to provide the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman