DRN-3765663
The complaint
M, a limited company, has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly turned down its 
business interruption insurance claim after it closed its business premises due to the Covid-
19 pandemic.
Mr and Mrs C, directors of M, have brought the complaint on Ms behalf.
What happened
M held a business interruption insurance policy with Covea. It runs a private medical 
professional practice.
After government restrictions due to Covid-19 were first introduced in March 2020, it says it 
wasnt required to close but its professional body advised it that routine and non-urgent 
treatments and assessments should be delayed until further notice. Mr and Mrs C said 
routine care formed the bulk of Ms business. Mr and Mrs C also said their professional body 
suspended their professional indemnity cover for all but emergency care to ensure that they 
didnt continue practising. M said the practice was closed for 10 weeks to all but a very small 
percentage of its patients.
M claimed on the policy for its business interruption losses.
Covea said Ms losses werent covered under the policy because it hadnt been required or 
advised to close its premises by a government or local authority.
M brought a complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She didnt think Covea had treated M unfairly. 
As M didnt agree, the matter has been referred for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether Covea has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining the claim. 
The policy covers business interruption caused by:
Interruption of or interference with the practice in consequence of the prevention of access 
to the premises due to the actions or advice of a government or local authority due to an 
emergency which is likely to endanger life or property .
So, for this term to provide cover, there must have been prevention of access to Ms 
premises due to the actions or advice of a government or local authority due to an 
emergency which is likely to endanger life or property.
In my opinion, Ms business falls into the category of businesses listed in Part 3 of 
Schedule 2 to the Health Protection (Coronavirus, Restrictions) (England) Regulations 
2020 as other medical and health services. The regulations expressly permitted these 
businesses to remain open. 
From what Mr and Mrs C have said, they feel Ms business was impacted because of 
restrictions on the type of treatment they could carry out which had been imposed by 
their professional body.
Ive looked at what Ms professional body told its members in 2020. On 25 March it said:
Whilst your clinic can remain open, we continue to advise that you treat those 
who have a high risk or urgent  need only and not to treat low  risk routine 
patients.
On 27 March it said:
We would like to reassure members that all our guidance which we have issued recently 
has been written in line with legislation, UK Government advice, WHO guidance and 
TUC support.
To practice in Mr and Mrs Cs branch of medicine, you must be registered with the Health 
and Care Professions Council in the UK (HCPC). However, membership of the 
professional body referred to by them is optional. That body describes itself as a a trade 
union. It offers a range of services to its members including insurance cover for 
professional indemnity and other risks. I dont think their professional body can be 
classed as a government or local authority.
In any event it seems to me that the measures referred to were designed to reduce the 
spread of Covid-19 as opposed to the prevention of access to Ms premises. I dont think 
there was action or advice given by a government of local authority which prevented M 
from using its premises.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to Mr and Mrs C. But, having considered the 
matter carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Covea to pay this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman