DRN-2003166
The complaint
Mr S complains about the charge Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall), trading as GMAC UK 
plc, asked him to pay for missing services when he returned a car he had been financing 
through an agreement with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The terms of the finance agreement explained:
20.2 You will keep the vehicle in good condition and repair which means that the vehicle 
must have a service booklet stamped by an authorised dealer showing that it has been 
regularly serviced and maintained in accordance with the manufacturers or UK
distributors recommendations.
and 
15.3 If you fail to keep the vehicle in good repair and condition as required by the 
Agreement, you may have to compensate us.
The last service on the car Mr S returned was 7 November 2017 and no further services 
were completed before the car was returned in August 2019. 
Mr S says he wasnt aware he needed to service the car. But he had purchased a two-year 
service plan and services had been completed in 2016 and 2017 so it would seem 
reasonable to suggest he would be aware of the need for continued services.
In those circumstances its fair for Vauxhall to make a charge for the missing services when 
the car is returned because the finance agreement says they can, and also to compensate 
them for the loss in value they would most likely experience when trying to sell the car on at 
auction.
Mr S was also charged for refurbishment of damage to an alloy wheel hub. The industry 
guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of 
their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). That 
guidance says there must be no damage to the wheel hub or spokes and, having considered 
the inspection photograph, I can see there is. So, whilst I dont believe Mr S is contending 
this charge I would confirm that I think its been reasonably made.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman