DRN-3072204
The complaint
Mr M is complaining through a third-party representative that Everyday Lending Limited 
(ELL) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. ELL 
has disagreed with the investigators view as it believes it lent fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by investigator for these reasons:
Loan 1
ELLs checks went far enough, it requested bank statements, payslips, carried out a 
credit search, I think it got a reasonable understanding of Mr Ms finances. However, 
I dont think it reacted appropriately to the information it gathered.
ELLs checks showed that Mr M was heavily reliant on credit, while his credit file 
showed three active high cost loan, it also showed that he was close to the limit on 
two of his credit cards and had used around half of his credit limit on a third card.
The bank statements showed that Mr M was borrowing from at least eight other high 
cost lenders and even though he was consolidating some of this borrowing, I think 
ELL should reasonably have known that Mr M was in a cycle of borrowing and that 
further borrowing was likely to cause him further adverse financial impact, particularly 
given the length and the cost of this loan.
On this basis, ELL shouldnt have lent loan 1 to Mr M and it needs to put things right.
Loan 2
ELL has provided evidence to show that this loan was unwound within 14 days and 
so Mr M hasnt suffered a loss in relation to this loan. I wont be asking ELL to do 
anything further.
Putting things right
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loan 1;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information about the loan from Mr Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr M a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman