DRN-3756785
The complaint
Mr D complains that BISL Limited wouldnt provide him with confirmation of his full No 
Claims Bonus (NCB) entitlement when he cancelled his motor insurance policy. He wants 
compensation. 
What happened
Mr D took out a policy through BISL and told it he had 17 years NCB. BISL told him it gave a 
maximum of 9 years NCB. After the policy had renewed, Mr D called BISL to cancel. BISL 
sent Mr D proof of 9 years NCB, but Mr D thought this should be 17. BISL said it would 
provide this confirmation if Mr D provided it with proof of his previous higher entitlement. But 
Mr D thought this was a breach of the policys terms and asked for compensation.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr D 
hadnt provided BISL with proof of his previous higher entitlement. He thought BISL had 
fairly warned him that it gave only 9 years NCB. So he didnt think it had done anything 
wrong or needed to pay Mr D any compensation. 
Mr D replied that this information was available to BISL from the motor insurers database, 
the Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE), and it should provide him with his requested 
confirmation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr D felt disappointed and frustrated that his full NCB entitlement 
wasnt confirmed by BISL when he cancelled his policy. I can see that he wanted to make 
sure that he got a good deal on any future cover.
BISL has provided us with the call recording from when Mr D first took out his policy. And Im 
satisfied that BISL made it clear that it only allowed for 9 years NCB and it applied the 
relevant discount to Mr Ds policy. I think the maximum of 9 years NCB isnt unusual in the 
insurance industry. Mr D accepted this and bought the policy. Mr D wasnt required to 
provide proof of his NCB. 
When Mr D cancelled his policy, BISL sent him proof of 9 years NCB. Im satisfied that this 
was correct as this was the maximum it allowed. And I can see that this was made 
reasonably clear in Mr Ds policy documents and renewal invitation. 
When Mr D complained, BISL asked Mr D to send proof of the previous higher entitlement 
from his previous insurer so it could then provide him with confirmation of the higher 
entitlement. Or, it said, it could provide a letter confirming an entitlement adding the 9 years 
originally included on the policy and the 1 completed year of cover without a claim, making 
10 years NCB in total. But Mr D didnt respond.
Mr D thought BISL would have checked this information on CUE. But policies are usually 
validated only when a claim is made. And I wouldnt expect BISL to check all the information 
Mr D provided when he first took out his policy. This is because I think it was for Mr D to take 
reasonable care to correctly answer any questions he was asked that were material to the 
policy. And I dont think its unfair for BISL to now ask for evidence of the previously claimed 
for NCB years in order to provide the requested confirmation. 
So, in summary, Im satisfied that BISL acted fairly and reasonably in providing Mr D with 
proof of 9 years NCB. And I think it made reasonable offers to accommodate Mr D. So I 
cant say it has done anything wrong or needs to pay Mr D any compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman