DRN-1998987
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Barclays Bank UK Plc dealt with his request to transfer the funds 
from a child savings account to his daughter.
What happened
In September 2005, Mr B opened a Junior Barclays Plus account for his daughter. At the 
time of opening his account Mr B was resident in the UK. And, due to the way the account 
needed to be set up, Mr B was the account holder.
In March 2019 Mr Bs daughter turned 18 and he wanted to transfer the account to her so 
she could access the balance. By this time neither Mr B nor his daughter were resident in 
the UK.
When Mr B told Barclays he wanted to transfer the account to his daughter it declined to do 
so. And, instead, it converted the account to a savings account in his name.
Mr B said he called telephone banking on multiple occasions and his daughter even 
attended a branch with ID. But he still wasnt able to transfer the account to his daughter as 
he wanted. Barclays told him this was because neither he nor his daughter were resident in 
the UK. 
Mr B felt hed been treated unfairly. He didnt think that UK residency was a necessary 
requirement to transfer the savings account to his daughter. So, he complained to Barclays.
Barclays investigated Mr Bs concerns and, in its final response to his complaint, stated it 
hadnt made an error in declining to transfer the savings account to his daughter. It explained 
that this was because she wasnt eligible to open an account as she wasnt resident in the 
UK. So, it didnt uphold this part of Mr Bs complaint. But it did acknowledge it hadnt 
responded to his complaint promptly. And it credited his account with £100 to reflect the 
trouble and upset this delay had caused.
Being dissatisfied with Barclays response to his complaint Mr B referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Barclays had dealt with this complaint fairly. 
They recommended upholding it and paying Mr B a further £100 compensation  bringing 
the total award to £200. Barclays agreed to pay this amount. But Mr B disagreed with our 
investigators view about his complaint and asked for it to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr B experienced here. I can see how strongly he feels 
about his complaint and I appreciate the reason why hes brought it to our service. My role is 
to assess whether I think Barclays made a mistake, or treated Mr B unfairly, such that it 
needs to now put things right.  Ive read and considered all the information provided by Mr B and Barclays, but Ill 
concentrate my decision on what I think is relevant to decide this complaint. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about 
it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
I want to say at the outset that this complaint has been brought by Mr B and relates to how 
he was treated by Barclays. I understand that he wants me to know about the distress and 
inconvenience his daughter was caused by what happened. But she isnt a party to this 
complaint or the account holder. So, I cant comment on how she was impacted or require 
Barclays to transfer any funds to her.  
Barclays told our investigator the savings account Mr B opened for his daughter in 2005 was 
withdrawn in 2012  when it became known as an Everyday Saver account. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied the account was set up correctly in Mr Bs 
name. He was able to deposit money. And he was able to continue to do so even after the 
account was withdrawn by Barclays. So, he was unaffected by changes made to the 
availability of this account in 2012.
Its clear that, in 2019, Mr B experienced problems with the account because he was unable 
to transfer it to his daughter as he wanted. I can appreciate the trouble and upset this 
caused  its clear that he opened the account in order to gift the funds to his daughter on 
her reaching the age of 18.
Barclays told our service that the name of the account holder cant be transferred from Mr B 
to his daughter. In order to do what Mr B wanted here he would need to withdraw the funds 
hed saved. This is in line with the historic terms and conditions Ive seen. And his daughter 
would need to set up an account in her name, which could then receive the funds Mr B had 
withdrawn. 
I appreciate that this may have been different to Mr Bs understanding of transferring the 
funds hed saved to his daughter. But Ive seen evidence that satisfies me that this is 
Barclays procedure. And our service cant tell a bank to change its processes or say that 
theyre wrong.
For Mr Bs daughter to set up an account in her name she would need to attend a branch 
with her identification and address verification documents, which Barclays would need to see 
in accordance with its Know Your Customer obligations. I think this is a reasonable and fair 
requirement. It follows that I cant fairly find that Barclays made an error in declining to either 
transfer the name of the account holder from Mr B to his daughter or to automatically 
transfer the funds between them.
I can see that Mr B went to great efforts in attempts to enable his daughter to open an 
account in her name. And I understand that she attended a branch as required but was still 
unable to open an account, due to what was clearly a misunderstanding over whether she 
needed to be a UK resident.
Based on the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Barclays informed Mr B that his daughter 
wasnt eligible to open an account as she isnt resident in the UK. And I understand she 
received the same advice from Barclays during her branch visit.
Its clear to me that what Barclays told Mr B here was incorrect. I say this because theres no 
reference in any of the documentation Ive seen from Barclays that either Mr B or his 
daughter would have to be a UK resident in order to open an account. And I can see Barclays has since informed our investigator that Mr Bs daughter is able to open a basic 
current account. 
Im satisfied that Barclays now accepts that the advice Mr B received was plainly wrong. But 
it remains unclear why it provided incorrect information to him. He was bound to have been 
caused confusion by this incorrect advice and it was reasonable for him to expect Barclays 
to inform him correctly as to what hed need to do in order to transfer the funds he had saved 
to his daughter.
Putting things right
Ive thought carefully about the fairest way to resolve Mr Bs complaint. I dont doubt that he 
would have been caused distress and inconvenience by what happened here. And Barclays 
also acknowledges that. I say this because its already paid him £100 compensation to 
reflect that. Its also apologised.
Our investigator recommended that Barclays pay a further £100 compensation  increasing 
the total award to £200. But its clear Mr B doesnt think this adequately reflects the trouble 
and upset he experienced. So, Ive considered whether our investigators recommendation is 
fair and reasonable. 
We arent here to punish businesses and, when deciding what potential compensation to 
award our service must take two things into account: financial loss as a result of any 
business error and non-financial loss, including inconvenience and upset. 
I can see our investigator has explained to Mr B that our service has to consider what 
actually happened. So, we cant award compensation based on hypothetical and speculative 
situations.
Im pleased to see that Mr B wasnt financially disadvantaged by what happened. He hasnt 
lost out financially as a result of what happened. Im therefore satisfied I dont need to 
consider making a financial loss award here.
Turning now to awards for non-financial loss, there isnt a set formula that we use to 
calculate awards for particular errors. Its my role to consider what impact the banks actions 
have had on the consumer and to decide, within guidelines set by our service, how much 
would be appropriate in the circumstances. 
Its clear to me that Mr Bs experience here went beyond mere irritation. He had to spend 
time contacting Barclays to understand why he couldnt transfer the funds hed saved to his 
daughter. I can understand how inconvenient all of that was.
However, having thought carefully about the impact all of this had on Mr B, Im satisfied that 
the trouble and upset award recommended by our investigator is a fair amount of 
compensation thats proportionate to the inconvenience and worry that Mr B wouldve been 
caused here. Its in line with our approach in similar scenarios and its what I would have told 
Barclays to pay
So, while Mr B may disagree with me, Im satisfied that an overall compensation amount of 
£200 fairly recognises the impact Barclays error would have had on him in the overall 
circumstances of this complaint. Barclays should therefore pay Mr B an additional £100 in 
compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr B £100 
to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman