DRN-2807912
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) unfairly handled 
a claim made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In January 2019, Mrs C was involved in a collision with another driver and she made a claim. 
In September 2019 Advantage said theyd settle the claim as 50/50 split liability. But Mrs C 
told Advantage that she didnt accept any liability and that she wanted them to reconsider. 
Later in September 2019 Mrs C got her renewal letter for her policy. She noticed her 
premium had gone up from £185.96 to £366.00 due to the open claim. She spoke with 
Advantage and was told that the third partys insurer hadnt yet been contacted to provide 
their version of events. So Mrs C complained to Advantage.
Advantage agreed that their level of service could have been better and offered Mrs C £100 
compensation. Advantage also agreed to continue to pursue the third party over the claim.
Shortly after, Mrs C found out that information from the third party still hadnt been 
requested. So she complained again. Advantage offered her a further £30 compensation at 
this point. But Mrs C felt that her claim wasnt being dealt with fairly. And she also felt that 
she was being disadvantaged, as she felt she had no option but to renew with Advantage 
while the claim was still open. So she brought her complaint to this service.
 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Advantage had properly considered how the claim delay, and their failure to consider all the 
evidence, had impacted Mrs C. She felt that Advantage should pay a total of £450 
compensation (including the £130 already paid) to Mrs C for the nine-month delay at the 
start of the claim and for the trouble and upset theyd caused. She also wanted Advantage to 
reassess Mrs Cs claim, looking at evidence for all parties.
Advantage disagreed with our investigator. They said theyd called the third party insurer on 
18 September 2019 to obtain the third partys version of events. The third party had blamed 
Mrs C for the accident. And no independent evidence was available. Overall they felt their 
split liability decision had been reasonable. Advantage also said that theyd recognised that 
they couldve been more proactive, but that theyd acted fairly when theyd recorded the 
claim as fault while it was still in progress. They asked for an ombudsmans review, so the 
complaints come to me for a final decision. 
I issued a provision decision on 13 April 2021. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its important to explain that my role here is to look at whether Advantage acted in a fair and
reasonable manner and within the terms and conditions of the policy in their handling of the
claim. Its not my role to assess liability for an accident. Thats the role of the Courts.
Under the terms of the policy Advantage have the discretion to take over, defend or settle 
claims as they feel appropriate. So theyre entitled to decide how the claim should be 
recorded based on the evidence they have. But I expect them to exercise that discretion in a 
fair and reasonable way. 
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
So Ive looked to see how Advantage investigated Mrs Cs claim. Theyve said that the third 
party insurer has a history of not responding to requests for accident report forms. But that 
they did ask for this information. And when it wasnt provided they instructed solicitors to 
recover their costs. Theyve explained that part of the litigation process would be for their 
solicitors to review both partys versions of events and accident report forms. They noted 
that the claim hasnt been closed and processes are still being followed to ensure this is 
settled fairly. This is the correct approach as the solicitors will have more scope for 
successfully obtaining any evidence, if it is available. But they also noted that they 
considered it very unlikely that the claim would be settled in any other way than 50/50, due 
to the conflicting versions of events and the lack of independent evidence.
Advantage also explained that they have a responsibility to mitigate claim costs and 
pursuing cases to court that have poor prospects for success does not represent this 
responsibility being fulfilled. So they dont agree that they acted incorrectly when attempting 
to settle the claim on a split liability basis, given they felt they had very little chance of 
securing a better outcome for Mrs C. 
I can see that Mrs C provided her version of events. But I cant see that Advantage obtained 
all relevant information from the other driver. For example, I note that the third party driver 
hasnt shared photographs of the damage. So Advantage have said that this means they 
havent been able to complete a consistency report of the damage. Instead they decided 
without looking for further evidence that the best they could expect to achieve would be a 
split liability. 
Advantage made this offer to the other insurer. And the other insurer accepted the offer of 
split liability. 
So Advantage made their liability decision without receiving and considering all possible 
evidence from the other driver. But from what Ive seen, this wouldnt have changed the 
outcome for Mrs C. I can see that as the incident occurred on a roundabout and as there 
were no independent witnesses, or CCTV footage, it would be hard to prove one version of 
events over another. 
Advantage have confirmed that when a claim is logged they obtain information regarding the 
location of the incident. This allows the claim handler to review the road markings before 
they make a decision on liability. They also note that the solicitors managing the claim have 
provided an update which supports their original decision. The inference here is that they 
made the right decision on the claim, even though they didnt initially obtain all possible 
evidence. 
Ive reviewed all of the details of the incident. And considered what Mrs C and Advantage 
have said. And I dont feel theres enough evidence about the incident to say that Advantage 
shouldve made a different decision on who was liable. So Im not persuaded that in the end 
the liability decision was unfair.I think Advantage have now reasonably investigated the claim. I understand that the claim 
remains open, as Advantage are yet to recover 50% of the outlay. I dont have any evidence 
to hold Advantage responsible for the remaining delays in concluding the claim. But Id 
expect them to take reasonable steps to ensure that it can be concluded as quickly as 
possible. 
Our investigator recommended that Advantage should pay Mrs C an additional £320 
compensation (making a total of £450) for the inconvenience of having an open claim for so 
long and for not investigating her claim sufficiently. I note that there have now been two 
renewals where Mrs C has felt shes had to stay with Advantage while the claim remains 
open. So there have been two insurance years where shes felt shes not been able to 
search for the best available premium. But it isnt the case that Mrs C couldnt have moved 
to a different insurer. Advantage havent told Mrs C she cant go to a different insurer. So I 
wont be asking Advantage to compensate her for this.
Mrs C has told us that Advantage increased the total excess on her policy at the October 
2020 renewal. The total excess had been £95, but its been increased to a total of £250. 
Given Mrs C feels obliged to stay with Advantage while her claim is still open, she must feel 
this is another disappointing consequence of the length of time the claim is taking to resolve. 
But, as mentioned above, I dont hold Advantage responsible for Mrs Cs decision to stay 
with them for her motor insurance while her claim has been outstanding. But I do hold 
Advantage partly responsible for the time the claim has taken, as they themselves have 
acknowledged. 
I note that Advantage initially incorrectly instructed solicitors who were unable to deal with 
Scottish claims. They then instructed solicitors who could progress the claim. And as 
discussed earlier, Advantage didnt take all reasonable steps before coming to their liability 
decision.  Mrs C has had to get involved in order for her claim to be considered properly. So 
I consider that Advantage have caused Mrs C distress and inconvenience over her claim.
Advantage have paid Mrs C a total of £130 compensation to date for the delays to her claim.  
Taking everything into account, I consider that an additional £170 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience Advantage have caused Mrs C is fair and reasonable under the 
circumstances. 
Putting things right 
I intend to require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs C £170 additional 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused by not investigating her claim 
fully before making their liability decision. 
Response to my provisional decision
Advantage accepted my decision. 
Mrs C noted that Advantages decision to offer split liability was clearly not the best outcome 
for her, as their client. 
She asked me to revisit the details of the accident, which she felt proved that the other driver 
was to blame. She said she felt my provisional decision was effectively rewarding the other 
driver.
 
While Mrs C agreed that Advantage didnt stop her from getting motor insurance elsewhere, 
she felt the open claim affected her choices. And increased her costs. So she said she was 
definitely disadvantaged by the open claim. She pointed out that the compensation shed been offered was for the time and distress caused by Advantages lack of action on her 
claim and not for the increase in premiums.
In light of the points Mrs C had made, she asked me to change my decision regarding both 
the accident liability and the compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The liability decision
I know that Mrs C feels extremely strongly that no fault shouldve been attributed to her for 
the accident. I can see that shes shared details of the accident with a Traffic Police Officer 
and in his professional opinion the other driver was to blame. I also understand that Mrs C 
feels that the other driver has been treated better than she has, even though that driver 
hasnt provided much evidence about the accident.
Mrs C asked me to revisit the details of the accident, which she felt proved the other driver 
was to blame. Unfortunately, as stated in my provisional decision, my role in this complaint 
isnt to determine who was to blame for the accident. Instead, what Im determining is 
whether Advantage followed the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy when dealing with 
her claim. And if they dealt with what happened fairly.
In my provisional decision, I found that Advantage didnt investigate Mrs Cs claim fairly to 
begin with, but that they had done in the end. 
I know Mrs C feels that the other driver seems to have benefited from being unhelpful. But I 
can only look at whether Advantage did anything wrong when they decided to settle her 
claim on a split liability basis. Theyd been given conflicting versions of events. And there 
was a lack of independent evidence. And given that there was no prospect of any further 
evidence I can see why they felt they had very little chance of securing a better outcome for 
Mrs C in court. So I cant ask Advantage to change their liability decision.
The compensation
Advantage originally offered £130 for the poor service Mrs C had received over her claim. In 
my provisional decision, I recommended an additional £170 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience they caused by not investigating her claim fully before making their 
liability decision.
But Mrs C said that shed been penalised by an increase in my premiums, a loss of my no 
claims discount and an increase in my compulsory excess amounts. 
I acknowledge that Advantages liability decision has caused all of these things to happen. 
And I understand why Mrs C thinks that shes been treated unfairly. But, as I detailed in my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded that the liability decision was unfair. So I cant ask 
Advantage to pay compensation for the consequences of that decision.
 
I know my decision will be extremely disappointing to Mrs C. But, having looked in detail at 
the points shes raised, I remain of the view I set out in my provisional decision. 
 
Putting things right
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs C a further £170 compensation.  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
I require Advantage Insurance Company Limited to pay Mrs C £170 additional compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience they caused by not investigating her claim fully before 
making their liability decision.
Advantage Insurance Company Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell them Mrs C accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this they 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2021.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman