DRN-3788840
The complaint
Ms T complains that Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) have been recording information 
incorrectly on her credit file.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional decision 
(Below). In my provisional decision I explained why I was minded to not uphold complaint. I 
invited both parties to let me have anything in response they thought was relevant.
Ms T had a credit account with a company that the purpose of this decision I will call 
L. Unfortunately, Ms T fell behind with her payments to this account, and the account 
was sold on to Arrow.
Ms T said that she believed L had defaulted her account in 2011, Arrow later told her 
the account had been defaulted in September 2014. As a result of this she thought 
the default should have dropped from her credit file in 2021, when she complained 
about this. She also complained that Arrow were reporting missed payments on her 
credit file which she believed to be wrong.
Arrow said the account had never been defaulted by them or L, and so wouldn't be 
dropping from her credit file. And also said the missed payments that were recorded 
were correct.
Ms T was unhappy with this response and brought her complaint to this service and 
at the same time made a complaint about L regarding the default.
Our investigator upheld Ms Ts complaint in part, in summary he said he couldn't hold 
Arrow responsible for L not the defaulting her account prior to selling it to Arrow. But 
he did think that arrow had recorded some missed payments incorrectly and asked 
arrow to amend this and pay Ms T £100 in compensation.
Arrow disagreed and explained that while Ms T had made payments to make up for 
the missing months they hadn't been made in the correct month and so recording 
them as missed payments was correct.
In the meantime, Ms Ts complaint about L was upheld by this service, and L 
retrospectively defaulted Ms Ts account from 24 March 2012, meaning it would no 
longer show on her credit file.
The investigator issued new findings based on this, he said Arrow should ensure 
their reporting on the account matched the new development of L retrospectively 
adding the default. But he didn't think they should be held responsible for the default 
not being recorded earlier as it appeared to be the fault of L.
He did say that he still felt Arrow should record the actual months the payments were 
made to show a true and accurate state of the account, as the way it had been 
reporting was confusing for any consumer. He said Arrow should still pay £100 in 
compensation for this confusion.
Arrow didn't respond to the investigator's findings and so the matter has now been 
passed tome to decide.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key 
issues. The rules that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean 
that Ive not considered everything that both parties have given to me. Having done 
so I'm not currently intending to uphold this complaint, I'll explain.
As the main of this complaint has been resolved by L retrospectively adding the 
default, and therefore the account be removed from Ms Ts credit file. All that's left for 
me to decide is if Arrow reported the missed payments incorrectly, and if they did 
should they pay compensation for this.
I've looked at what Arrow have said about the missed payments, which is that 
sometimes Ms T missed a payment in one month but made two in the next month, 
and although that means the balance is reducing in line with where it would have 
been there has still been a missed payment in the previous month.
This largely matches what Ms T has told us about those missing months, she says 
she always paid by standing order. And where there have been two payments in a 
month, where there was no payment the month before this is likely been because of 
weekends or bank holidays. I agree with that but the responsibility to make the 
payment in the month is Ms T's.
When setting up the standing order Ms T would have been able to choose the date 
that she wanted the money to be sent. If she chose to do it towards the end of the 
month, then weekends and bank holidays would clearly affect this. I understand she 
may have done this to coincide with pay coming to her account or because of the due 
date that was agreed. But I can't hold Arrow responsible for the fact that a payment 
wasn't received in a particular month was received the following month. And I agree 
that this constitutes a missed payment. As such I don't think arrow have recorded the 
missed payments incorrectly and so I won't be asking it to award any compensation 
to Ms T.
I know Ms T will be disappointed with this outcome. But I am pleased that the issue 
of the default has been resolved for her and is no longer showing on her credit file.
Arrow responded agreeing with my findings.
Ms T responding saying:
As already mentioned, from the very beginning of my complaint, I wasn't the one 
who set the date re the standing order, that was the date that Arrow Global set in 
their plan and I complied, not knowing the banking system cause's these anomalies.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or further evidence, my outcome and the 
reasons for it havent changed from my provisional findings. But I would like to give further 
explanation to Ms T about her comments around the setting of the date for the standing 
order.
The setting up of a standing order with a bank can only be done by the account holder, in 
this case Ms T. So, she had to have been the one to set it up with her bank. The date would 
have been chosen by her and while I appreciate that she set it up on the date that Arrow had 
told her payments were due by, she could have set it up for earlier to make sure it got there 
on time. I fully appreciate she isnt an expert on banking processes and didnt realise 
weekends and bank holidays might affect the payment being sent. But I cant fairly hold 
Arrow responsible for Ms T not knowing this, and it isnt something Id expect them to have 
explained to Ms T.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman