DRN-2925120
The complaint
Ms B complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) has given her the wrong 
information and discriminated against her.  
What happened
Ms B visited a Nationwide branch in July 2020. She says Nationwide refused her entry as she 
needed to wear a face covering due to coronavirus restrictions in place at the time. She says 
she was also told she needed a doctors note to confirm she was exempt from wearing one 
before shed be allowed inside. Ms B was upset by this. When she phoned Nationwide and 
communicated with them on a social media platform, she says Nationwide confirmed this was the 
position and that shed need to pay for a doctors note.
Ms B says Nationwide have failed to take account of her disability and, ultimately, 
discriminated against her in breach of the Equality Act 2010 (the Act).
Ms B complained to Nationwide. It said it was unable to locate records of her visit to the 
branch, phone call to it or social media conversation. However, it confirmed Nationwide dont 
have a policy requiring a doctor's note to prove the member is exempt before allowing them 
into the branch. It asked the branch about this but neither the staff nor manager knew why 
Ms B wouldve been told this as they knew its not a bank policy. Nationwide didnt uphold 
Ms Bs complaint and she came to our service.
Our investigator considered all the evidence and recommended the complaint be upheld.
He said the evidence hed been able to review was the call recording provided by Ms B and 
screenshots of the social media conversation with Nationwide. He felt the conversation she 
had with the Nationwide agent supported her being denied entry at the branch due to not 
wearing a face covering nor having a doctors note confirming the exemption. As a result, he 
thought Ms B had been given a poor level of service and hadnt been treated fairly and 
reasonably. However, having reviewed Nationwides Covid 19 response manual, he didnt 
consider it was Nationwides intention to treat Ms B differently to other customers. This is 
because the manual set out the guidance to staff that members were expected to wear face 
coverings but this was not something to be enforced. It went on to confirm that some 
members dont have to wear a face covering and, in that case, should be served as normal. 
To put things right, he thought Nationwide should pay Ms B compensation of £150 for the 
time Ms B had spent dealing with the matter and upset caused. 
Nationwide accepted this and agreed to pay Ms B the compensation. Ms B didnt agree as 
she thought it should pay her around £7,000 as this is the type of award she says courts 
have made in the past for breaches of the Act. 
As agreement hasnt been reached, this matter has now been passed to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When there are two contrasting accounts, I must decide what is more likely to have 
happened, based on the available evidence. 
Although a number of matters and points have been raised, this decision focuses on what I 
think are the main issues. However, Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions 
made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell Ms B that I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So I uphold her complaint in this matter and require Nationwide to pay £150 - as it has 
agreed to do - to put things right. Ill explain why.
As highlighted by the investigator, Nationwide has been able to offer very little evidence of 
the events in question. It says it cannot trace the call, social media conversation or branch 
visit. Ms B has provided a call recording she made herself  which Im satisfied is genuine - 
and Ive seen screenshots of the call being made on her phone as well as extracts of the 
social media conversation. Taking this into account, I accept what Ms B has said about 
being denied entry to the branch as a result of not wearing a mask or having a doctors note 
confirming exemption. I agree this shouldnt have happened for reasons I will come on to. As 
a result, I dont think it treated Ms B was treated fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
Ms B says she feels Nationwide discriminated against her in breach of the Act. I can 
understand why Ms B feels so strongly about this subject. However, its not my role to say 
whether Nationwide has breached the Act. This is because thats a matter for the courts to 
decide, not our service. Ive taken the Act into account when deciding this complaint  given 
that its relevant law  but Ive ultimately decided this complaint based on whats fair and 
reasonable. If Ms B wants a decision that Nationwide has breached the Act, then shed need 
to go Court.
Ms B has explained she is exempt from wearing a face covering. While I accept its possible 
the member of staff at the branch and on the phone intended to upset Ms B, I think it more 
likely there was a misunderstanding about what the current rules surrounding face coverings 
were at the time and what actions the branch would take because of this. I say this because 
the guidance to Nationwide staff confirms that members cannot be treated differently where 
they dont have to wear a face covering so this is a case where individual members of staff 
havent acted in line with Nationwides policies.
I also think its important to consider the fact that the events here happened during the early 
stages of the Covid-19 pandemic when the rules and guidance were frequently changing. 
For example, news articles from around the time the branch visit and call occurred explain 
compulsory mask wearing was just about to be implemented in shops and supermarkets but 
that the details of the new rules, including any exemptions, hadnt yet been published. 
During the conversation with the agent, he refers to the changes which are about to take 
place regarding face coverings for all shops and supermarkets and says that Nationwide had 
taken the decision to implement this sooner than Friday. I think this is also referred to in the 
social media conversation where the agent says this is a legal requirement form [sic] the 
government, but there are exceptions which you can look up on the government website.
I accept the members of staff Ms B encountered at the branch and on the phone got it wrong 
 this is because when the rules were implemented, there was a list of exemptions and, 
those who were exempt, werent required to prove this with a doctors note. However, Im 
satisfied Nationwide was trying to interpret the emerging guidance in a way in which it believed best protected its staff and members during these unprecedented times whilst 
complying with government guidelines. 
While I can appreciate Ms Bs concerns and that she was both distressed and 
inconvenienced by being given the wrong information, I think its fair to recognise the 
backdrop of the pandemic here meant that many businesses faced difficulties understanding 
and implementing government rule changes where sometimes little notice and information 
was given in advance of their implementation. So, its important that this is considered when 
trying to establish what is fair and reasonable to impartially resolve this complaint.
Nationwide has accepted that it gave Ms B poor customer service. Ms B doesnt see it that 
way. She believes that what Nationwide has done goes beyond poor customer service. She 
felt she was treated differently and unfairly. I can understand why Ms B feels this way, and I 
do think Nationwide hadnt quite grasped initially how its actions made Ms B feel.  
Nationwide has now agreed to pay Ms B £150 compensation to make up for any distress 
and inconvenience it caused by giving her the wrong information and denying her entry to 
the branch. I agree this is a fair resolution in the circumstances. Ms B has said she doesnt 
think this is enough compensation and I note she refers to awards made by the court. While 
Ive considered her reasons, Im satisfied £150 is fair is all the circumstances of this 
particular case.
I know Ms B has mentioned taking the matter to court and will be disappointed with this 
outcome. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve her dispute with 
Nationwide  can do for her. 
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society should pay £150 to Ms B.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Ms Bs complaint. To put things right, Nationwide 
Building Society should pay £150 to Ms B.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman