DRN-2196858
Mr G is unhappy that due to Financial Administration Services Limited he had to wait around 
two months to receive the sale proceeds from two holdings he sold in November 2019. He 
said that the value of the two funds had risen by £865 by the time it belatedly paid him the 
proceeds.
What happened
In October 2019 Fidelity sent Source of Wealth forms to customers who had investments 
regulated in Luxembourg informing them they had until 15 November 2019 to complete and 
return the form. It could not release the proceeds of any redemption instructions until it 
received and processed the form.
Mr G requested the sale of two holdings; this was done on the day it received the written 
request, 11 November. But in the absence of a completed Source of Wealth form, it didn't 
send the funds to Mr G until January 2020. It said it hadnt received a form by the deadline. 
But Mr G said he did return the form  and this is why his Fidelity (UK) sale proceeds were 
paid to him.
An investigator at this service said there wasnt any evidence to say Mr G had returned the 
form by the 15 November deadline. Also, Fidelity had explained that it could pay out other 
UK-based holdings without a completed form. 
She noted that Mr G's financial adviser contacted Fidelity on 3 December 2019 to chase 
payment of the sale proceeds, and Mr G called himself the following day. Fidelity admitted 
the Source of Wealth form wasn't sent to Mr G following these two phone calls, and not until 
12 December 2019 after another phone call from the adviser. It had admitted this mistake 
and paid Mr G £100 for this.
But she said Fidelitys procedures required it to send out a new Source of Wealth form once 
it had processed a sale if there was a hold to prevent the release of funds. There was no 
evidence it had done this. She felt that it ought to have reviewed Mr Gs account holding by 
22 November (a week after the deadline) and sent him a new form on that date. If it had 
done, she thought he would have returned it by 4 December.
But she also noted that when Fidelity received the form, on 19 December, that it had 
belatedly sent, it was incomplete. However, it didnt return the form for completion until 9 
January 2020, more than 20 days later. It apologised for this and sent Mr G a £50 gift card. 
As Fidelitys turnaround time for an incomplete form was 72 (working) hours the investigator 
said it should have done this by 9 November. As Mr G had dealt with this immediately she 
said Fidelity would have got his form back by 10 November if it had acted promptly.
Instead, Fidelity received the form on 10 January with Mr G getting the proceeds on 17 
January. In the meantime it wrongly told him it had lost his form and subsequently paid him 
an additional £50 plus £4 in lost interest.
Overall, the investigator felt Fidelitys total offer of £200 for the inconvenience it had caused 
was reasonable but she didnt think it had fairly compensated Mr G for the likely lost due to 
its delays. In saying this, she didnt agree with Mr G that he should be compensated for the 
change in value of the shares between when they were sold and when he received the 
money as Fidelity had correctly sold the shares on the date Mr G instructed it to.
She noted that Mr G had invested the proceeds in his ISA  and was satisfied he would have 
done the same thing if hed received the money by 18 December. Therefore, Fidelity should 
assess whether Mr Gs proceeds (£14,940) would have purchased more shares on that date 
compared with the number he had been able to buy on 21 January 2020  and compensate 
Mr G accordingly.
Mr G accepted the investigators view while reiterating that he was certain he had returned 
the form in the first place and that it was correctly filled in.
Fidelity did not agree, saying:
It has already paid Mr G fair compensation for its mistakes and loss of interest i.e. 
£204.42 in total
If Mr G had returned the form within the required deadline, his proceeds would have 
been paid on time; it is his failure to do this which resulted in delayed payment
It accepted it should have sent out the replacement form sooner and its 
compensation, £150, far exceeded his loss of interest of just over £4
Mr Gs original complaint was that he should be paid for the difference between the 
share prices on the date it correctly executed his instructions and the delayed receipt 
of the proceeds. The investigator agreed this was not appropriate and it is only after 
this that Mr G altered tack and complained about the delay in being able to reinvest 
the money
At no point did Mr G or his advisor state that the proceeds would be reinvested in an 
Aviva ISA; his advisor even referred to Mr G wanting to encash his other accounts
Why didnt Mr G claim from the outset that the delayed proceeds were destined for a 
new ISA?
Mr G accepted that the additional £100 compensation was fair, and he was happy 
with it
In a provisional decision, I said:
I largely agreed with the investigator and for the same reasons.
Fidelity ignored several calls from Mr G and his advisor, requesting a new form be sent out 
and this resulted in unnecessary delay. It then failed to deal promptly with the problem of the 
incomplete form with a further lengthy unnecessary delay in Mr G receiving the proceeds 
from his sale.
Given this, it needed to pay appropriate compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
its repeated errors. From what Ive read, it paid Mr G a total of £204 including a gift token. I 
note that Fidelity has recently explained that the component elements of this including 
compensation for loss of interest due to different errors and not merely for the trouble and 
upset caused.
However, I am satisfied that this sum is about right purely in relation to the trouble and upset 
caused by its mistakes - and is in line with what this service would have instructed it to pay if 
it hadnt made such a payment. Taking out the alleged interest, I do not believe Fidelitys 
offer/payment went close to representing a reasonable sum in lieu of its various errors.So I dont accept that its compensation so far is sufficient if Mr G suffered an investment loss 
as a result of its errors.
In assessing this issue I should firstly explain that my role, and that of this service, is to 
investigate whether a business did something wrong and, if so, whether the complainant 
suffered a loss.
Mr G initially sought compensation for the fall in value of his existing holdings during the 
period between their sale and his receipt of the proceeds, something the investigator did not 
accept. But it was part of her job to assess whether Mr G might have suffered a different 
loss. 
The fact that Mr G did not say hed paid the proceeds into another investment immediately  
or argue this led to a different loss - doesnt change the need for us to investigate this issue.
Equally, while Mr G and his advisor did not state that he intended to invest the proceeds in a 
stocks and share-based ISA, and did not apparently tell Fidelity this till recently, doesnt alter 
the fact that this is what he did. His recent evidence clearly demonstrates that he 
immediately invested the belated proceeds from the two funds in an Aviva ISA.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence to indicate that Mr G wouldnt have made the same 
decision several weeks earlier if Fidelity had responded to his and his advisors calls 
appropriately (sending out the form promptly) and acted promptly when it discovered the 
form was incomplete.
I am satisfied that the timeline of events has been thoroughly aired, including Fidelitys 
responsibilities when dealing with these issues, and I agree with the investigators detailed 
analysis of the various delays and Fidelitys share of responsibility for these. 
I therefore agree with her that Fidelity should compensate Mr G for its likely share of 
responsibility for the delay in Mr G being able to reinvest the proceeds. That is, it should 
calculate the number of units Mr Gs £14,940 would have purchased on 18 December 2019. 
It should then compare this to the number he did purchase.
But I don't agree with what I think is her proposed basis for compensation i.e. paying Mr G 
the difference between the value of his new holding as of 21 January and what it would have 
been worth at that date if he'd invested on 18 December. This is because I dont think he 
was going to sell his new holding on that date i.e. crystalize such a loss.
Instead, I think it is fairer to assess the current value of the additional units Mr G would have 
been able purchase if he had been able to invest on 18 December and for Fidelity to pay 
this. I recognise Mr G may have altered the asset mix (or indeed the fund holder may have 
made changes in the intervening period) but, on balance, I am satisfied this is a fair basis for 
compensation.
Finally, I said I would forward Mr G's figures about the comparative number of units he could 
have bought on the two dates. I currently have no reason to doubt that these have come 
from the provider and are correct.
Mr G responded, saying he accepted my view of compensation.
Fidelity did not agree, and said:It did not ignore the request for a replacement Source of Wealth form; the request 
was raised on the day of the call. Unfortunately, the form was not readily accessible 
to the phone associates so the request was added to a queue of items for the 
customer relations team to action. This was changed, once this was identified by 
Fidelity during their investigation of the FOS case, to ensure that the phone 
associates could email or print and post the forms the same day as the call
9/10 November should have read 9/10 December in the decision and it has read 
those dates as such
Mr Gs complaint was in relation to the delayed receipt of his redemption proceeds, 
and he requested the difference in value from the date the investment was sold to the 
date the proceeds were released. At no time did he or his IFA tell it of his plan to 
invest the £14,940 proceeds in an Aviva ISA so it did not address this issue. In fact, 
as evidenced, it was specifically told the contrary
I concluded that it had acted fairly in selling the funds on receipt of the redemption 
instruction but refusing to release the proceeds until it obtained a valid Source of 
Wealth form
I also agreed that it had paid fair compensation for its two acknowledged errors: the 
delay in sending a new form and returning this incomplete form
Therefore, I concluded that it had dealt with Mr Gs complaint fairly and so I should 
reject the actual complaint submitted to it and this service
It is prepared to compensate Mr G for any proven loss arising from a delay in 
reinvesting the proceeds in an ISA but this should have been treated as a new 
complaint, which it should have been given eight weeks to consider
It is happy to liaise directly over this issue now but this should not impact on this 
decision (which should not be upheld)
To assess Mr Gs potential investment loss it would need to see a copy of the Aviva 
Confirmation of Transaction detailing his investment, including the actual date and a 
breakdown of the investment and calculations from Aviva on the financial impact if 
the investment been made on the correct date. Such calculations would usually be 
made after the deduction of any initial fees deducted by the IFA and take into 
account that 3% of the investment apparently remained in cash
So far it has been provided with a client report from 27/05/20 which shows the 
investment breakdown of Mr Gs Aviva portfolio valued at £87,650.15, a single 
premium investment of £18,150 on an unidentified date in January 2020, the 
advisers initial advice and ongoing advice charges and Aviva charges for the period 
covered in the report
This is not an Aviva Confirmation of Transaction; a regulatory document evidencing 
the exact investment breakdown, purchase costs, adviser fee deductions and the 
date of investment
Its also been shown a portfolio valued at £18,150 with a specific asset breakdown 
showing unit prices and quantities as at 18/12/19 and 17/01/20, identifying a loss on 
that £18,150 portfolio of £351. However, the proceeds of Mr Gs redemption from 
Fidelity totalled £14,940 not £18,150
If Mr G and the Ombudsman accept that the compensation should be calculated that 
way, it would need to be provided with such calculations relevant to the element of 
the £14,940 redemption proceeds available for Mr G to invest in his ISA, after the 
deduction of the IFAs initial fees and evidence that 17/01/20 was the date of the ISA 
investment
Any delay regarding Mr Gs Fidelity redemption proceeds did not prohibit Mr G from 
investing additional monies into his Aviva ISA at any time
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I do not agree with Fidelitys view that compensation for alleged investment loss re 
Mr Gs new ISA should be treated as a separate complaint. Mr G complained that Fidelity 
had done various things wrong and argued that he had suffered a loss as a result of this. 
This is what the investigator and I have considered.
As I explained, in my provisional decision, this service is entitled and required to assess 
what loss/es a customer has made if it concludes a business has done something wrong. So 
while Fidelity is right that Mr G was seeking a different form of compensation in his complaint 
to it and us, this does not preclude us from considering other types of loss.
As part of the assessment of this complaint, Mr G pointed to the fact that he had reinvested 
the proceeds in an ISA and that he thought the delay may have resulted in an investment 
loss. The investigator rightly considered this and concluded, on the balance of probabilities, 
that such a loss had occurred.
I agreed with her about this given the evidence Mr G had presented. In my view such 
evidence indicated, on the balance of probabilities, that Mr G did reinvest the proceeds even 
though he had not mentioned this in his original complaint.
The investigator outlined why she felt Mr G should be compensated for this ISA investment 
loss in a View dated 1 July 2020 and explained the basis for her proposed compensation. 
Fidelity was given ample time to contest this along with further time to dispute my proposed 
compensation; more than 10 weeks in total. And it has clearly laid out its general objections 
and specific questions about the basis for such compensation. So I am satisfied that it has 
had sufficient time to respond to the new basis for compensation.
In relation to its points about the compensation, Id firstly say that the investigator and I were 
both clear that any redress would only relate to the proceeds of £14,940 and not the total 
invested sum of £18,150. And this is still the basis on which I intend to set compensation.
Beyond that, I dont agree with several of Fidelitys points. Mr G invested far more than the 
£14,940 proceeds so I have no idea where any fee to his advisor came from, which may 
have concerned other products and other advice anyway. Similarly, I dont think there is 
persuasive evidence to conclude Mr G invested less than this amount in January taking into 
account the third-party providers fees. So I dont agree that any fees need to be taken into 
account.
I accept that Mr Gs figures dont provide definitive evidence of his potential loss, particularly 
as he uses the overall investment sum and the dates do not match the key dates in question. 
Even using his figures, his loss would be closer to £290 than £350.
But I am satisfied that he undertook considerable time and effort to try and work out the unit 
price movement of the many funds his new product was invested in, and I have no reason to 
doubt that this offers a reasonable estimate of the general picture.
Further, it is often very difficult to get third parties to undertake lengthy theoretical 
calculations  for no benefit to themselves  and this service is unable to compel businesses 
to do such work unless they are connected to the complaint. Crucially, in the current climate 
this service has found it often difficult to get businesses directly involved in a complaint to 
speedily undertake such theoretical calculations. In this case I am concerned that any 
decision which depends on such third-party co-operation may prove very difficult to deliver a 
speedy resolution.It is this services role to provide an informal and timely resolution to complaints driven by 
what we consider fair and reasonable Given the modest sums involved, I told Fidelity that I 
intended to instruct it to pay Mr G £290.
Fidelity agreed to this but reiterated that it felt the complaint should not be upheld as Mr G 
had not referred to reinvesting his proceeds till after bringing his complaint here. As I 
explained earlier, I do not agree with this view.
Putting things right
Fidelity must pay compensation as outlined above.
My final decision
I instruct Financial Administration Services Limited to pay Mr G £290.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Tony Moss
Ombudsman