DRN-3850834
The complaint
H complains about delays in an interim claim payment made by Covea Insurance plc after a 
fire at Hs business premises.
What happened
H has an insurance policy underwritten by Covea which covers his business premises, 
contents and business interruption, amongst other things. 
He made a claim after a fire in the kitchen at his premises in September 2021.
There were some delays in the handling of the claim initially, but these appear to have been 
unavoidable due to the circumstances. 
In mid-December 2021, given the time it was taking to resolve the claim, Covea agreed to 
make an interim payment of £10,000 to H. However, H didnt actually receive that payment 
until 20 April 2022.
H says this caused him financial difficulty. He says he borrowed money from family members 
and promised to pay them back soon after the interim payment was agreed. This led to 
friction when the payment wasnt forthcoming from Covea and H couldnt re-pay the debts 
when promised.
He says he also had to take money from his life savings. And he incurred bank and credit 
card charges as a direct result of Coveas late payment.
H complained to Covea. They admitted the delay in making the interim payment was 
unacceptable and offered H £250 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
H wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator looked into it and 
didnt think Covea has done enough to put things right for H. He thought they should double 
the compensation offered to H and pay him £500.
He also said Covea should cover any banking or credit costs H had incurred as a direct 
result of the interim payment being late. Covea have now agreed to do this
H disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He thinks £5,000 in 
compensation would be fair and reasonable given the trouble and upset he experienced due 
to Coveas errors. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Id like to say how sorry I was to hear about the difficulties H has been caused by 
the fire. I can understand how upsetting, frustrating and worrying it must have been for him.
Of course, I have to bear in mind when making this decision that Covea didnt cause the fire. 
And H has acknowledged that the delays in the claim early on were caused by things outside 
Coveas control.
Thats why this complaint is solely about the delay in the interim payment H was promised, 
by the loss adjuster working for Covea, in December 2021. Its the additional trouble and 
upset H experienced as a result of that delay that I have to consider in this decision. 
Covea have admitted that it was unacceptable for that payment to take four months or so to 
arrive with H. So, theres no argument about the fact that they made an error and should 
compensate H for the trouble and upset that caused him.
Covea originally offered £250 in compensation to H. I agree with our investigator that wasnt 
enough. Theres no excuse for the long delay and Covea  or their agents  would have 
known the impact it might have on H if the payment was delayed. Thats why they agreed to 
the interim payment in the first place.
I also agree with our investigator that £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for H. I dont 
think his expectation of £5,000 is in any way justified in all the circumstances.
Our investigator referred H to our website, which explains when and how we might award 
compensation. The examples given there make it clear that the £500 our investigator 
suggested in this case is within a range of appropriate awards for circumstances in which a 
customer experienced considerable distress, upset and worry  and/or significant 
inconvenience and disruption.
I think its fair and reasonable to suggest thats exactly what H suffered in this case as a 
result of Coveas error.
I bear in mind that the error was the late interim payment of £10,000, against the final 
settlement of the claim. 
H has told us he borrowed £10,000 from family members and he took £15,000 from his life 
savings during the period in question or just before it. He says that was embarrassing, 
inconvenient and stressful for him.
The agreed interim payment was for £10,000, not £25,000. So, its difficult for me to 
reasonably conclude that the trouble H experienced in obtaining £25,000 is all down to 
Covea delaying the interim payment.
Its also possibly frustrating and annoying to have to remove money from life savings for a 
short period of time. But its not as if H was left without any means to support himself and his 
family in the relevant period. 
Its fortunate and/or testament to Hs management of his finances perhaps that he had life 
savings to fall back on. But he did, so the impact of the late payment on him was not as 
acute as it might have been in other circumstances.
Putting things right
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that £500 is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset suffered by H  and thats what Ill be requiring Covea to pay to him.
Covea have also undertaken to consider reimbursing H for any bank or credit charges hes 
had to pay as a direct result of their making the interim payment four months later than theyd promised. Its not unfair or unreasonable for them to expect H to provide them with 
evidence to demonstrate the extent of his losses in this respect.
So, Im also going to require Covea to consider covering those baking or credit charges on 
receipt of the required evidence from H.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Hs complaint.
Covea Insurance plc must:
pay H £500 in compensation for his trouble and upset; and
on receipt of sufficient evidence from H, consider reimbursing H for any banking or 
credit charges he incurred as a direct result of the late interim payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman