DRN-4195513
The complaint
Miss D and Mr Q complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined to provide cover or to 
pursue a third party for damage caused during a collision, under Miss Ds motor insurance 
policy. 
Ill refer to Miss D in my decision for ease. 
What happened
Miss D was driving her mothers car when she was involved in a collision. She says the other 
driver was travelling too fast and was at fault. She says the driver and his passenger 
behaved in an intimidating manner. He offered cash to settle the matter, but Miss D refused 
and obtained the drivers contact details. 
Miss D made a claim to UKI. She says it refused to contact the other drivers insurance 
company to deal with the claim. Miss D says she is insured on a third-party basis and UKI 
should get the other insurer to pay for the damage to her mothers car. She says she pays 
for legal expenses, which means UKI should represent her in this matter. 
In its final complaint response UKI says Miss D was driving her mothers car, which isnt 
covered. In these circumstances it says cover is only in place for damage to the third-party. 
UKI says it would only look to pay damages if Miss D was fully or partially to blame.  
UKI says Mr Q was told in error that Miss D wasnt allowed to drive other cars. It explains 
this isnt correct. Shes covered to drive other cars with the owners permission on a third-
party basis. To compensate for the worry this caused it sent Miss D a cheque payment for 
£50. 
Miss D thought this outcome was unfair and referred the matter to our service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold her complaint. He says theres no cover under Miss Ds policy to 
repair her mothers car as a result of the accident. Our investigator didnt think UKI acted 
unfairly when it declined to cover the claim.
Miss D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Miss Ds complaint. Im sorry to disappoint her but Ill 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Miss Ds policy terms and conditions to understand the cover she has in place. 
Under, Section 1: Liability on page ten of Miss Ds policy booklet, the terms say:
Liability to other people (third parties) 
Well cover you if youre found to be legally responsible for an accident.
What well do 
Well provide cover: 
If you cause an accident Well provide cover if youre found to be legally responsible to other 
people for an accident involving your car that: 
injures or kills someone, and/or 
damages someone elses property
 If the main driver is driving another car 
The main driver may be covered for liability to others when driving another car. If theyre 
covered: 
Youll see this on your certificate of motor insurance. 
When the main driver drives any other car, well provide the same cover as If you 
cause an accident above..
Page eleven of the policy terms and conditions booklet says:
Youre not covered for
If youre driving another car
We dont cover any damage, fire or theft to the car youre driving. 
We dont provide Motor Legal cover if youre driving another car.
Ive checked Miss Ds certificate of motor insurance. It says:
[Miss D] may also drive with the owner's permission a motor car not owned by them and not 
hired or leased to them under a hire purchase or annual leasing agreement.
I think its clear from this information that Miss D was covered for driving her mothers car. 
However, the cover is limited to third party damages, not damage to the car Miss D was 
driving. The terms also make clear that there is no motor legal cover in place in these 
circumstances. 
I can see that UKI sent a further email to Miss D after its final response letter. This email 
dated 23 February 2023, explains that to claim for damages to the car she was driving Miss 
D can claim directly to the third-partys insurer. Alternatively, she could see if there was 
cover in place through the insurance policy held on the car she was driving.
Having consider this, I cant see that Miss Ds policy covers the damage to her mothers car. 
Similarly, I cant see that UKI is responsible for pursuing the third-partys insurer for the 
damages Miss D is seeking. She has no motor legal cover in these circumstances. This 
means she must pursue the third-partys insurer directly. This isnt something UKI is required 
to do. 
The claim records show UKIs agent gave inaccurate information when the claim was first made. It said no cover was in place for Miss D to drive her mothers (or any other) car. I think 
its fair that UKI apologised for this error and paid £50 compensation for the worry it caused.
In summary I think UKI treated Miss D fairly when relying on its policy terms and declining to 
cover her loss or to pursue the matter with the third-partys insurer. I dont think it behaved 
fairly when its agent gave inaccurate information about the cover in place for driving other 
vehicles. But I think its done enough to put this right by apologising and paying £50 
compensation. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D and Mr Q 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman