DRN-2435870
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Builders Direct SA (BDSA) wont provide a full settlement for the 
damage they suffered following an escape of water. All references to Builders Direct SA in 
my decision include its agents.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B suffered an escape of water in their bathroom causing damage to the hall and 
shower area. They provided photographs of the damage and two quotations for the repair 
work to BDSA. But Mr and Mrs B said BDSA delayed approving the work. And when the 
repairs started Mr and Mrs B say further damage was uncovered. BDSA has agreed to pay 
out, but they want the settlement to include the additional damage caused by the delays in 
approving the claim.
BDSA said the shower leak was covered by the policy and two estimates were provided by 
Mr and Mrs B. After further consultation BDSA authorised around £9000-£10000 for the 
works. BDSA also approved £75 a day for ten days inconvenience while the work was being 
done. But it says it didnt receive a response from Mr and Mrs B for some time. 
Many months after the event had occurred, BDSA received a final invoice for work totalling 
over £15000. After an inspection it felt the bathroom had been reconfigured during the repair 
work. BDSA said the policy didnt provide cover for betterment and its surveyor felt some of 
the costs were too high. So BDSA made a final offer of around £10000 for the repairs and 
£1150 for the inconvenience.
 
Mr and Mrs B werent satisfied with the response from BDSA. So they contacted our service 
and our investigator looked into the matter. He could see the claim had been completed 
about 7-8 months after the escape of water. Unexpected delays arent uncommon in claims 
of this nature. But he felt the claim had progressed at a reasonable pace. And he hadnt 
seen anything to show that BDSA have caused any unnecessary delays. 
Our investigator noted that the invoice submitted by Mr and Mrs Bs contractor was 
substantially higher than the amount BDSA had approved. And an inspection found the 
bathroom had received a total refurbishment. But the home insurance policy was designed 
to put Mr and Mrs B back in the position theyd been in before the damage had occurred. It 
wouldnt cover the cost of improving the damaged area. So our investigator couldnt say 
BDSA had done anything wrong in how itd handled the claim. And he wouldnt be asking it 
to take any further action.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree. Itd taken six months for BDSA to authorise the claim. And the 
leak had continued, causing further water damage to units and tiles. Once the work started 
they were left without a bathroom for about six weeks in the middle of winter. And Mr and 
Mrs B said they had to chase BDSA to keep things moving. So theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mr and Mrs B have had a very difficult time following the leak in their property. 
Unfortunately any escape of water is likely to cause some distress and inconvenience. And 
Id expect BDSA to try and put them back in the position theyd been in before the leak as 
quickly as the circumstances allowed. 
So Ive looked at whether there were any unnecessary delays.  And whether the settlement 
offered was reasonable for the repair work required. Mr and Mrs B have raised a number of 
issues about how their complaint has been dealt with. Ive carefully considered all of the 
points, but Ive concentrated on the issues that are most relevant to the outcome. 
Mr and Mrs B reported the leak in June 2018. They sent BDSA two quotations for the repair 
work just over a month later. BDSA had some concerns as the quotes looked very similar in 
style and layout, although Mr and Mrs B say this was because they provided a template to 
the two contractors to make sure they were quoting for the same thing. 
BDSA also instructed its own surveyor to look at the damage and it provided an estimate for 
the work required about a fortnight later. It can be difficult to accurately assess the cost of 
putting things right following an escape of water. And I dont think its unreasonable for 
BDSA to consider the information provided by its chosen expert as well. 
After BDSA approved one of the quotations I understand there were problems getting hold of 
the selected builder and a second contractor had to be found. The repair work then started 
and BDSA contacted Mr and Mrs B in October and November to see how things were going. 
They confirmed the work had been completed in February 2019 although there were still 
ongoing discussions about the damage suffered and the settlement offered.
Ive looked carefully at everything Mr and Mrs B have said and Ive looked at BDSAs file 
notes for the claim. Mr and Mrs B say they were left with a hole in the landing wall for a 
number of months as the leak couldnt be reached during the initial inspection. And that 
contributed to further damage which had to be put right.
BDSA say it authorised a track and trace to locate the source of the water, but it wasnt 
possible to immediately access and repair the leak. So BDSA authorised Mr and Mrs B to 
instruct their builder to return and repair the water pipe, after which a full reinstatement to the 
bathroom and other areas could then take place. I can see the surveyors notes say Mr and 
Mrs B wouldve needed to keep the water supply to the bathroom turned off when they 
werent using it. And I appreciate how inconvenient this wouldve been.
There were messages back and forth between Mr and Mrs B and BDSA between the escape 
of water and completion of the repairs as both parties tried to find out what was happening. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest BDSA caused any unnecessary or avoidable delays in 
the way the claim was handled. It needed to confirm what works were needed and to agree 
a reasonable cost estimate for the restoration. And I cant say BDSA has done anything 
wrong in how it has handled the claim.
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy with the settlement amount offered by BDSA. They say it 
isnt enough to cover the amount charged by their contractor because the leak caused 
further damage due to the delays, increasing the cost of repairs.
As Ive noted above, BDSAs surveyor was aware the leak couldnt be resolved immediately. 
And BDSA authorised Mr and Mrs Bs own contractor to fix the leak as soon as possible 
before starting to restore the bathroom and hallway. BDSA says the proposed settlement for the remedial work was based on the upper limit 
suggested by its surveyor. And it made repeated attempts to contact Mr and Mrs Bs 
contractor to find out why their final bill was so much greater than its own estimates, without 
success.
BDSA says its responsibility was to try and put Mr and Mrs B back in the position theyd 
been in before the escape of water occurred. And the before and after photographs suggest 
the bathroom has received a complete refurbishment rather than repair. Of course Mr and 
Mrs B were able to make their own contribution if they wished to improve the layout or 
quality of the finish during the repair work. But BDSA was only responsible for the cost of 
putting things back to the original position. 
And I think its entitled to rely on the opinion of its appointed surveyor when determining the 
amount of settlement offered. Its not been able to obtain any additional information from 
Mr and Mrs Bs contractor to explain why the final invoice was much greater than expected 
or why any additional settlement might be required.
Having estimated the costs to be in the range of £9000 to £10000 BDSA agreed to settle at 
the higher end of the estimate. While it felt the work shouldve been completed within ten 
days BDSA also recognised the inconvenience Mr and Mrs B went through while the repairs 
were completed during the winter months. And it increased the inconvenience payment by a 
further five days.
I do sympathise with the difficult experience theyve been through. Any escape of water is 
likely to be very distressing and can sometimes be difficult and time-consuming to put right. 
It can take many weeks to dry out a damp area and this can be an unpleasant experience for 
any homeowner to live through. 
But based on everything Ive seen I cant say BDSA has done anything wrong in the way its 
handled the claim. Ive not seen anything to suggest its caused any unnecessary delays that 
mightve increased the costs of putting things right.
BDSAs responsibility was to replace the damaged items on a like-for-like basis. It wasnt 
able to obtain any further information from Mr and Mrs Bs contractor to support the 
increased cost. So I think it was entitled to rely on the estimates of its own surveyor. 
I realise Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed with this outcome. But I cant say BDSA has 
handled the claim unfairly or unreasonably. And I wont be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman