DRN-3196203
The complaint
Mrs S complains about TESS PARALEGAL SERVICES LTD (TESS) and their decision to 
terminate the agreement she held with them without notice.
Mrs S has been represented by her husband, Mr S, during the complaint. For ease of 
reference, Ive referred to them both as Mrs S throughout the decision.
What happened
In late 2015, Mrs S instructed TESS to assist her in terminating several timeshares following 
an introduction by a third-party travel company, who Ill refer to as M.
Mrs S paid M a significant amount of money to complete this work and, after becoming 
unhappy with the service they provided, cancelled her agreement with them in 2017. But Mrs 
S maintained her relationship with TESS and wanted them to continue working on her 
behalf. 
But Mrs S became unhappy with the service TESS provided. This unhappiness was made 
worse by several cold calls Mrs S says she received discrediting TESS and the work they 
completed. So, Mrs S expressed her concerns to TESS. And having received these 
concerns, TESS terminated their agreement with Mrs S and completed no further work. Mrs 
S was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint about it.
TESS responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They thought theyd acted fairly when 
terminating the agreement as this allowed Mrs S to seek representation from another 
company as she was unhappy with the service theyd provided. So, they didnt offer to do 
anything more. Mrs S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to 
us.
While the complaint was with our service, TESS offered to re-instate the agreement but 
applied a 30-day expiration on this offer. Mrs S advised our service she wanted to ask 
further questions about this offer before accepting it. Our service put these questions to 
TESS but initially, we received no response. And by the time TESS did response, the offer 
had expired and they confirmed this was no longer available to Mrs S.
So, our investigator looked into the complaint. And she didnt uphold it. She explained any 
events Mrs S had complained about that occurred before 1 April 2019 fell outside of our 
jurisdiction as TESS were not regulated by our industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) at that time. She also explained we may have been able to consider these 
events if TESS had been regulated by the Claims Management Regulator (CMR) but they 
werent. So, she explained we were able to consider these any further.
But she explained we were able to consider events that occurred after 1 April 2019. So, 
shed considered whether TESS acted fairly when deciding to terminate the agreement. And 
although she didnt think TESS had provided reasonable notice, she was satisfied TESS 
could decide to terminate the agreement themselves. And she didnt think Mrs S wouldve 
found herself in a different situation if reasonable noticed had been provided. So, she didnt 
think TESS needed to do anything more.
Mrs S didnt agree. She thought she may have been able to convince TESS to continue 
working on her behalf if shed been given notice of the cancellation. And she maintained her 
view that shed acted reasonably, on TESS instruction, so didnt think TESS had any 
reasonable cause to terminate the agreement.
Our investigator explained she was unable to overturn her original decision on the basis Mrs 
S felt she may have been able to convince TESS to continue working on their behalf as this 
was a hypothetical scenario and she was unable to say for certain this wouldve been the 
case. Mrs S remained unhappy, so her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the upset this complaint has caused Mrs S. I recognise Mrs S 
believes shes been the victim of fraud and has lost a significant amount of money in the 
process. Im aware Mrs S saw TESS and the service they provided as a possibility to recoup 
this loss so I can understand the upset she wouldve felt when TESS made her aware they 
were terminating the agreement and completing no further work. But for me to say TESS 
should compensate Mrs S, Id need to be satisfied of two things. First, Id need to be 
satisfied TESS decision to terminate the agreement was unfair and not in line with the terms 
of that agreement. And if I think thats the case, Id also need to be satisfied the situation Mrs 
S finds herself in would be different had TESS acted in line with the terms of the agreement. 
And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. Im aware Mrs S initially entered into an agreement 
with TESS in 2015. And Im aware there are aspects of the service they provided she is 
unhappy with that occurred before 1 April 2019. But Im unable to consider these as they fall 
outside of our services jurisdiction. TESS became regulated by the FCA on 1 April 2019 so 
Im only able to consider the service they provided after this point. As our investigator 
explained, we may have been able to consider events before this date has TESS been 
regulated by the CMR but Ive seen no evidence to suggest they were.
So, my decision focuses on the events Mrs S is complaining about that occurred after 1 April 
2019. And in this instance, this is TESS decision to terminate the agreement they held with 
Mrs S.
Ive first thought about whether TESS acted fairly when terminating the agreement. And to 
do this, Ive considered whether this action fell in line with the agreement terms and 
conditions. These explain that We may decide to stop acting for you only with a good 
reason, for example, if you do not pay an interim bill or comply with our request for a 
payment on account. We must give you reasonable notice that we will stop acting for youSo, I do think TESS were able to terminate the agreement without Mrs S consent. But I 
recognise this states that TESS require a good reason to do so. And Mrs S disputes there 
was.
Its not disputed that Mrs S raised concerns about TESS and their practices after receiving 
cold calls from other companies. And TESS have explained they took this as a breakdown in 
the working relationship. While I recognise Mrs S disputes this was her intention, I dont think 
I can say TESS interpretation of this was unreasonable. Its not for me to decide what TESS 
deem a good reason to terminate agreement as this is a business decision. But I would 
expect a reasonable explanation from TESS and I think theyve provided one here. So, I 
cant say theyve acted unfairly here.
But I do recognise this term also states TESS must give Mrs S reasonable notice before 
terminating the agreement. And its not disputed that TESS terminated the agreement with 
immediate effect. So, no notice was given and because of this, I think TESS failed to act 
within the terms of the agreement.
But as Ive explained, for compensation to be appropriate I also need to consider whether 
Mrs S wouldve found herself in a different situation had TESS provided her with reasonable 
notice. Mrs S thinks she wouldve been able to convince TESS to continue working on her 
behalf if shed been given this notice. But this is a hypothetical situation, rather that one that 
actually happened. And our service is unable to consider hypothetical scenarios when 
deciding complaints.
But what I think Im able to say with reasonable certainty is that it was highly unlikely Mrs S 
claim wouldve been successful in the time reasonable notice wouldve provided. I say this 
considering the length of time Mrs S claim had already been ongoing and the fact there is 
no evidence to suggest the claim was nearing an end. So, even if TESS had provided Mrs S 
with reasonable notice, I think the agreement would still have been terminated and Mrs S 
would be left in the same situation she is in now. So, I dont think compensation would be 
appropriate or fair on this occasion. So, because of this, I dont think TESS need to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs S was hoping for. And I appreciate this wont assist 
Mrs S in progressing her claim for her losses. But I hope it provides some closure to Mrs S 
concerns about TESS and allows her to move forwards.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs S complaint about TESS PARALEGAL 
SERVICES LTD. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman