DRN-2777563
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC did not reduce the cost of a Travel Plus 
Pack when the Pandemic struck.
Mr L says that Barclays shouldve offered a discount to the Travel Plus Pack holders on the 
basis that they were only able to make limited use of the insurance benefits.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and didnt think that Barclays had acted 
unfairly in this matter. Mr L disagreed and so the matter was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr L feels that Barclays shouldve offered to reduce the monthly fee for the 
Travel Plus Pack on the grounds that he was unable to use many of the benefits it provided.
However, the Travel Plus Pack is sold as a package. Because of this, account holders are 
unable to pick and choose what it comes with and that also means it comes at a set price. 
Therefore, if account holders dont feel that it continues to provide value for money, for 
example if they no longer need or are unable to use some of the features of the Pack, it is up 
to them to cancel it.
In this case, Mr L mayve felt (quite understandably) that the Pack was poor value for money 
for him during the pandemic. And I note that he has referred to other insurance products for 
which a discount or refund on the premium has been offered to policy holders. But the Travel 
Plus Pack does not operate like a typical insurance policy. Rather than offering to provide 
cover for 12 months like a typical insurance policy would, it provides cover (and access to 
non-insurance benefits) on a rolling monthly basis. Therefore, because Mr L was free to 
cancel it as soon as he felt it was no longer good value for money, I dont think Barclays was 
being unreasonable by saying that it wont offer him a discount on the monthly Pack fee. 
I note that Barclays temporarily withdrew the Travel Plus Pack from sale  although looking 
at Barclays website, it looks like it is now back on sale. And Mr L has asked, when Barclays 
removed the Pack, why did it not write out to existing Pack holders to point out that they may 
not be able to use all the elements of the pack. 
Barclays has explained it removed the pack for the opposite reason that Mr L has given. 
Barclays says that it temporarily withdrew the Pack from sale not because people were 
unable to benefit from it, but because the product providers (specifically the travel insurer) 
were hugely overwhelmed with claims. So in the circumstances, I think Barclays decision to 
temporarily cease selling the Pack to new customers was not unreasonable. And I cant say 
that Mr L lost out because Barclays didnt remind him of the benefits, as the onus was on 
him to establish whether the Pack was no longer good value for his circumstances. I should 
also add Barclays would have no way of knowing if Mr L had already booked holidays in 
advance that he may have needed to use the travel insurance for. Ultimately only Mr L could 
know if he intended to rely on the travel insurance.
So taking everything into account, I understand why Mr L wouldve liked to have been 
offered a discount for the Travel Plus Pack. But given the circumstances, I cant reasonably 
say that Barclays was being unfair or unreasonable in choosing not to offer one to Mr L.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman