DRN-2290205
The complaint
Miss S complains that Starling Bank Limited reduced her overdraft facility on her personal 
current account without notice, leaving her without access to her benefit payment.
What happened
Miss S had a personal current account with Starling Bank. The account was used by Miss S 
to receive her benefit payments (universal credit and child allowance) and to pay her day to 
day living expenses.
Miss S found herself in financial difficulties. She entered into an Individual Voluntary 
Arrangement (IVA) with insolvency practitioners, who Ill refer to as X. 
On 20 April, her universal credit was paid into her current account taking it into a positive 
balance, and although she made some payments from the account which took it back into 
the overdraft, there was about £184 available credit remaining in the agreed overdraft. 
On 21 April, X informed Starling Bank of the IVA. As required to do under the terms of the 
IVA, Starling Bank could not offer Miss S any further credit, so it reduced her overdraft limit 
to the level of use at the time. This meant Miss S was unable to access the remaining £184 
of her universal credit payment. However, it didnt tell Miss S that it had done this. She 
discovered it when she tried to make a purchase which was declined.
On 22 April Miss S contacted Starling Bank. She said she couldnt access her benefits and 
had no money to buy food for her child. Starling Bank apologised for not informing her of the 
reduction in the overdraft facility, and gave her £35 in compensation, but would not give her 
access to the remainder of her benefits money as this was from the overdraft. 
Miss S didnt agree with the resolution and brought the complaint to our service. She said 
that because Starling Bank hadnt told her the overdraft was being reduced, she was unable 
to pay essential bills and buy food for her child. She was left without access to her remaining 
universal credit money for two weeks, so had to rely on food banks and the local authority to 
feed her child.
A few days later Starling Bank anticipated that Miss Ss child benefit payment was due, so 
arranged for it to be paid into a different account so that she was able to access it. But it 
didnt advise her how to access the £184 remaining from her universal credit until 4 May.
Our investigator thought Starling Bank should pay Miss S more compensation than it had for 
not telling her the overdraft had been reduced, due to the distress and inconvenience this 
had caused. He thought a total of £100 was more appropriate.
However Miss S didnt agree. She thought the fact that she had been unable to access her 
remaining universal credit money for two weeks, and so hadnt been able to buy food for her 
son had had a significant impact on her wellbeing and mental health.
During our investigation Starling Bank re-assessed this and apologised for not telling her 
how she could access the £184 until 4 May. It made a further payment to Miss S of £100 as 
compensation for this, meaning they had paid her a total of £135. But Miss S didnt think this 
was enough to reflect the distress she had been caused, so the complaint has come to me 
for a decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Starling Bank has agreed it didnt inform Miss S that her overdraft facility had been reduced, 
and that it should have told her. It paid her £35 compensation for the distress this caused 
her. It has also apologised that it took it 12 days to tell Miss S what she needed to do to 
access the remaining £184 of her universal credit payment after she first told it she had no 
money to feed her child. It has paid her £100 compensation for the distress this caused. 
What I need to decide is whether I think these two payments, taken together, adequately 
reflect the level of distress and inconvenience these two errors caused Miss S. And from 
what Ive seen so far, I dont think they do. Ill explain why.
When Starling Bank were informed by X that Miss S was in an IVA, it acted correctly in 
withdrawing any further credit facility. It was required to do this under the terms of the IVA, 
but instead of withdrawing the entire overdraft facility, which would probably have resulted in 
the account defaulting, it reduced the agreed overdraft level to its current level of borrowing. 
I think this was a fair and reasonable decision to make. However, it didnt tell Miss S that it 
had done this, so Miss S found she had no money to pay for essential bills and food when 
she tried to buy some. This must have been a very distressing situation to be in, especially 
as she had to buy food for her child.
Ive seen the text conversation between Miss S and Starling Bank when she found she 
couldnt access her money. It was clear she was very distressed and frightened and unsure 
how she was going to cope. The conversation was outside of normal banking hours, and she 
was told she would be contacted with help the following day, but Ive seen little to show she 
was given adequate support or advice by Starling Bank about how she could access her 
benefit payments. 
I note that Starling Bank did anticipate the child benefit payments that were due, and made 
arrangements for this to be paid into a different account, and this was the right thing to do to 
support Miss S. But given that Starling Bank were clearly told by Miss S that she had no 
money to feed her child, and that she wasnt able to get access to the remaining part of her 
universal credit in order to do so, I think Starling Bank should have informed her at an early 
stage that she needed to get X to authorise the release of the money. But despite knowing 
her very difficult and distressing situation, it didnt give her this information for 12 days. And 
Ive seen that once X was asked, it authorised the release of the funds immediately, and 
Miss S had access to the money within two days. So, I think Miss S was left in a vulnerable 
and distressing situation, without access to her universal credit money to pay for essential 
items, for a minimum of 10 days longer than was necessary, and this was because Starling 
Bank didnt give her the information she needed when it should have. And this caused her 
significant distress and inconvenience.
The response to my provisional decision
Both Miss S and Starling Bank accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both Miss S and Starling Bank have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from it. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Starling Bank Limited to pay Miss S an additional £265, 
making a total of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman