DRN-2936011
The complaint
Ms T complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed her to open a credit card account 
which was unaffordable and also increased the credit limits.
 What happened
Ms T says she shouldnt have been allowed to open the NewDay credit card account in 2017 
and it didnt carry out appropriate checks on her application. She says her bank account was 
overdrawn and had defaults registered on her credit file as well as late payments on other 
accounts. Ms T says she was in about £4,000 of debt and would like all interest and charges 
refunded as well as 8% interest on that amount. She would also like the default that NewDay 
has registered to be removed from her credit file as well as other adverse information.
NewDay says the account was opened in May 2017 and Ms T declared an income of just 
under £15,000 a year. It says it carried out checks on her credit file which showed the last 
default some 27 months before and no other accounts in arrears. NewDay says it calculated 
Ms Ts debt at the time at about £8,500 and increased her credit limit from £600 to £1,200 
before later increasing to £1,750. It accepts the last increase in August 2018 shouldnt have 
taken place and has refunded interest and charges.
Ms T brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought NewDay carried out appropriate checks on the application but didnt think the credit 
limit increase in December 2017 from £600 to £1,200 appropriate based on Ms Ts account 
management. He recommended NewDay refund interest and charges from that date and 
pay 8% annual interest on that amount as well as rectify Ms Ts credit file.
NewDay doesnt accept that view and says Ms Ts account management was within its risk 
appetite and says it will not pay interest or amend her credit file.
Ms T accepts the investigators view but says she was thousands in debt at the time and had 
payday lending.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I uphold this complaint in part.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit facility application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type 
and amount of such lending. This was an application by Ms T for a credit facility rather than 
for example a loan or mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected NewDays checks to have 
been as detailed as for those types of lending.
I have looked carefully at NewDays records and can see that Ms T told it she was in 
employment earning just under £15,000 and that it calculated her debt at the time at about 
£8,500. I can also see that NewDay checked Ms Ts credit file and considered that her last 
default was some years before and that there wasnt any recent adverse information 
recorded on it. So, Im satisfied that NewDay did carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on Ms Ts applications and that the lending was on the face of it affordable and so 
not irresponsible. I also think NewDay approved a modest credit limit of £600. I appreciate 
Ms T says NewDay didnt carry out such checks, but Im satisfied they were carried out and 
that NewDay wasnt obliged to check Ms Ts bank statements. I have not seen any evidence 
of significant payday lending as Ms T suggests.
NewDay ought to carry out similar checks on any credit limit increases and I dont think the 
test of affordability is its appetite for risk as it says. But that it ought to consider Ms Ts 
account management in the months leading up to the increase in December 2017 as well as 
carry out those other checks.
I have looked carefully at Ms Ts account statements from the lending decision until the first 
increase in December 2017. Im satisfied that Ms Ts account balance throughout was either 
just below or over the £600 credit limit and that she incurred a number of default charges for 
late payments or over limit charges. Im also satisfied that except for one month she paid 
near enough to the minimum required payment. I appreciate NewDay says other external 
factors hadnt changed but Im satisfied that Ms Ts account management ought to have 
caused concern and that the credit limit increase was not affordable based on the 
information NewDay had.
I think its clear that following the first increase Ms T spent the new available amount 
immediately and continued to badly mange her account by incurring various charges. I think 
that provides additional evidence that the decision to increase the credit limit was not 
appropriately considered. And if NewDay accepts that the second credit limit increase was 
unaffordable then its difficult to see how the first was affordable or that the circumstances 
are that different.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Ms T has had the benefit of the money and so it would be unfair for NewDay to 
write off the balance. But it should refund charges and interest applied after the December 
2017 credit limit increase and put Ms T back in the position she would have been in were it 
not for the credit limit increases. Any refund should be deducted from the amount Ms T owes 
and if there is a balance owed to Ms T, which I think unlikely, then NewDay should pay 8% 
simple interest in the usual way. If there is such a refund, then NewDay should provide Ms T 
with a certificate showing any taxation deducted.
NewDay should remove any adverse information registered on Ms Ts credit file caused by 
the increases to the credit limit. I accept that will not be an easy calculation as it may well 
have been the case that Ms T would have defaulted on a credit limit of £600 but NewDay 
ought reasonably attempt to calculate the position were it not for the increases and may 
consider that registering late payments rather than a default appropriate. NewDay should 
reach an agreement with Ms T to repay the balance if appropriate interest free.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd to refund 
charges and interest applied over and above the credit limit of £600 and deduct that amount 
from the outstanding balance. Any overpayment refund if due to Ms T, should have simple 
interest of 8% added to it and any adverse information recorded on her credit file caused by 
the credit limit increases should be removed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman