DRN-1757379
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them life insurance.
What happened
In 1996 Mr and Mrs S were advised, by a firm that HSBC has since acquired liability for, to 
take out life insurance alongside a mortgage endowment policy.
Mr and Mrs S complained to HSBC in August 2019 that the life insurance was mis-sold. 
They explained Mr S already benefitted from having life cover through his employer that was 
in excess of the £136,000 required for the endowment policy. And so, they didnt think they 
needed any additional cover and said HSBC had a duty to ensure further protection was 
required and suitable for them. They wanted the premiums, totalling about £24,600, 
refunded plus additional interest.
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint. They said one of the conditions of lending at the time was 
for suitable life cover to be in place. And while they offered life cover products, Mr and Mrs S 
were free to take out cover through another provider. HSBC also explained that they 
wouldnt recommend death in service benefits are used for mortgage protection purposes as 
they may be lost in the event of a change in occupation. Such benefits also cannot be 
assigned to lending and so the funds would be distributed in accordance with the pension 
trustees instructions. Because of this, it wouldnt meet the terms of the mortgage.
The complaint was referred to our service. One of our investigators looked in to the matter 
but she didnt think the life insurance was mis-sold. She said lenders are entitled to place 
certain conditions on lending, such as the requirement to have life cover, and that it was up 
to Mr & Mrs S to decide whether to proceed on this basis. There wasnt however anything to 
show the cover had to taken with HSBC, so Mr and Mrs S had to option to take out 
protection with a different provider. 
Our investigator also explained that the life cover Mr Ss employer provided wasnt 
guaranteed for the duration of the mortgage term as he could change jobs or, it could be 
withdrawn. So, this type of cover isnt generally considered a suitable repayment method for 
a mortgage in the event of death. And although Mrs S had £80,000 of life cover, split across 
two policies, this wasnt enough to cover the mortgage. Because of this, she didnt think it 
was unreasonable for additional life cover to be taken out by Mr and Mrs S or that it was mis-
sold.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to same conclusions as our investigator and for largely the same reasons. I know this will be very 
disappointing for Mr and Mrs S but Ill explain why.
Firms, like HSBC, can include conditions as part of their lending requirements. In this case, 
Mr and Mrs S were required to have life cover in place as a condition of the mortgage. I 
understand Mr and Mrs S feel they already had sufficient life cover and so didnt require any 
additional protection. But while Ive taken what theyve said in to account, I dont think I can 
fairly conclude the life insurance was mis-sold. 
The mortgage required both Mr and Mrs S to have life cover in place. According to the 
available paperwork from 1996, Mrs S had two existing life policies that provided £80,000 of 
cover.  One of these however, which provided £30,000 of cover, was also coming to an end 
during that year. And so, Mrs S didnt have sufficient cover in place at that time to meet the 
outstanding balance of the mortgage. Therefore, in order satisfy HSBCs condition of lending 
further cover was required for Mrs S.
Mr S did however have existing cover - in excess of the mortgage - in place. The cover was 
provided by his employer as a death in service benefit. I appreciate Mr S says this cover 
adequately protected his wife in the event of his passing and so they didnt require anymore. 
But this cover was provided by his employer and so it wasnt guaranteed for the full term of 
the mortgage. This is because Mr S may have changed jobs or the employer might have 
removed the benefit. Because of this, it wouldnt ordinarily be considered suitable for 
mortgage protection purposes and HSBC said, in their response to the complaint, that it 
wouldnt have met their condition of lending. 
I understand Mr S says in the event he lost his employee benefit he wouldve sought 
alternative cover at the time. But there wouldnt have been any guarantee of being able to 
obtain cover at a later date, or if so on what basis, if his health deteriorated during that time. 
So, setting up a separate life insurance policy that ran for the term of the mortgage ensured 
the condition of lending was met and it also provided Mr and Mrs S with the benefit of 
additional protection during that time. 
Mr and Mrs S say HSBC didnt explain why the death in service benefit wasnt suitable. And 
that the documents dont suggest it is unsuitable but rather, they only refer to additional life 
cover may or may not being needed. They question why an explanation wasnt provided as 
to the suitability of Mr Ss employee benefit and, why additional cover may not have been 
required.
Due to the amount of time that has since passed from when the cover was set up, there is 
limited documentary evidence available. And as I wasnt present at the time of the meetings, 
I cant be sure what was or wasnt discussed between Mr and Mrs S and the adviser. So, 
while Ive taken Mr and Mrs S testimony in to account I dont think I can fairly conclude that 
the adviser didnt explain why the death in service benefit wasnt suitable for meeting the life 
cover requirements. 
I have however considered the financial planning review summary document, which says:
SUMMARY OF YOUR NEEDS
PROTECTION
Protecting your family
Whilst there may or may not be a need for further lie cover you do not see this as a 
priority as you feel that you are already well provided for with the existing cover.You are of course, concerned to protect the mortgage against death. 
Although it says further life cover may not be required, it is clearly recorded that Mr and Mrs 
S were concerned about protecting their mortgage in the event of their death(s). And so, 
taking it all in to account, I think it suggests that it wasnt a priority for Mr and Mrs S to take 
out additional life cover beyond that of the mortgage protection. Im therefore not persuaded 
there wasnt a need, or requirement, for Mr and Mrs S to have additional life cover at all.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs S say they were told they had to take the life cover or the 
mortgage would be declined. And that they werent given the option to seek cover with 
another provider. As Ive already explained, I cant be sure what information the advisor gave 
to them. But in order to proceed with the mortgage application they were required to take out 
additional cover. There isnt however anything to show this had to be with HSBC. In any 
event, as Mr and Mrs S wouldve had to have paid for additional life cover irrespective of 
whether it was with HSBC or not, I cant determine whether theyve suffered a financial loss 
as a result. I also think its worth nothing that Mr and Mrs S have received the benefit of such 
cover while its been in place  as, had either of them died, then the policy wouldve paid out.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs S were hoping for but for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think HSBC mis-sold the life insurance.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Daniel O'Dell
Ombudsman