DRN-1680442
The complaint
Mrs H complains that a car acquired with finance from Mercedes Benz Financial Services 
Limited was mis-sold.
What happened
In October 2019 Mrs H was supplied with a car and entered into a contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS.
Mrs H says she was told at the point of supply that she could return the car within 14 days. 
Within a few days of getting the car, Mrs H says she realised that it was too small, and the 
seat was too low for her back, so she asked to return it.
MBFS refused to accept a rejection of the car. It said there was no evidence of a point of 
sale fault. It offered Mrs H the choice of early settlement or hand back, both of which would 
involve her paying a settlement sum.
Mrs H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. She says the finance 
agreement was misrepresented to her.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the terms of the finance agreement 
were clear and that the car couldnt be returned at no cost until at least 50% of the sum 
payable under the agreement had been paid. 
Mrs H didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to say that the agreement was mis-sold, I would need to be satisfied that the 
business made a false statement of fact which induced Mrs H to enter into the agreement.
Mrs H has said that she was told that she could return the car within 14 days if she decided 
she no longer wanted it.
There arent any notes of the discussions between the dealer ad Mrs H so I cant be certain 
of exactly what was said. In circumstances like this, I need to look at the contemporaneous 
documents to decide whats most likely to have been discussed and agreed.
Ive reviewed the email chain between Mrs H and the dealer. Its clear that Mrs H wanted to 
return the car. The dealers response is clear about the 14 days cancellation period relating 
to the finance agreement only and not the car.
Ive looked at the finance agreement. This says that Mrs h can withdraw from the agreement 
within the first 14 days. It also says the full amount of credit must be paid if she does so. 
Theres nothing in the agreement which says the car can be handed back for any reasons 
within the first 14 days.
Taking all the available evidence into account, I dont think theres enough evidence to say 
that there has been a misrepresentation here. I think its more likely that there was a m 
misunderstanding and that Mrs H thought she could return the car in the first 14 days when 
in fact the 14 days cooling off period related to the finance agreement only.
Even if Im wrong about that, and Mrs H was told she could return the car in the first 14 days, 
this doesnt change my view on misrepresentation because Im not persuade that the ability 
to return the car in 14 days was the sole or main reason why Mrs M decided to enter into the 
agreement. I think its more likely that she entered the agreement because she had decided 
to purchase the car.
The terms of the finance agreement dont allow the car to be returned at no cost until at least 
50% of the amount payable under the agreement has been paid. I can see that MBFS has 
explained the available options to Mrs H. Im not persuaded that theres been a 
misrepresentation here. So, I wont be asking MBFS to do anything further.
I appreciate that Ms H is unhappy that she received letters advising her that she could 
voluntary terminate the agreement. MBFS has explained that the agreement cant be 
voluntary terminated. In cases where theres been an error like this, Id expect a business to 
offer an apology and , in some cases depending on the circumstances and the impact of the 
error, pay compensation. In this case, Im of the view that MBFS has offered a fair resolution 
for this aspect of the complaint so I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman