DRN-3303820
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the sale of their mortgage endowment by Bradford & 
Bingley Limited (B&B). 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M took out an endowment with B&B in 1999. Mr M complained to B&B in 2020 
that the endowment hadnt been correctly sold to them. He recalled that the advisor had 
discussed both endowment and a repayment mortgages, but sold the idea of an endowment 
paying out more than the amount they needed. He complained that they raised concerns 
about a shortfall at the time but was told not to worry about this. And said he thought the 
advisor may have got more commission for the endowment. He also later raised that Mrs M 
wasnt present for the meetings.
B&B didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. It said they had been sold a suitable policy by 
the advisor based on their situation and low attitude to risk at the time. And it said that the 
commission that was paid for this policy was highlighted in the sales paperwork.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator also didnt uphold their 
complaint. They asked for an ombudsman to reconsider it as they didnt agree they were 
sold the right product. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M is unhappy that the handwritten notes the advisor made during the meeting in 1999 
arent available now. While it would be useful to have everything from the sale, considering 
the time passed I cant say its unreasonable that B&B dont have these notes. They do hold 
the application paperwork and recommendation letter, which are in my opinion key 
documents for the sale.
Mr M wants our service to consider whether he and Mrs M were treated fairly; given the best 
product and whether the agent acted in his/their best interests. Reviewing the paperwork 
from the time of sale I see no evidence that the agent failed to act appropriately in this case. 
I can see the recommendation was made in line with the risk he and Mrs M wanted to take. 
And that a suitable endowment was taken out for them. I accept that with hindsight a 
repayment mortgage may have been a better choice  but this cant have been known at the 
time and cant factor into a complaint now. 
Mr M has said that a repayment and endowment nearly cost the same amount  but the 
agent steered him toward an endowment, which he now considers was wrong. But at the 
time Mr M took his endowment it was still considered they that were likely to do well and 
make a profit. Nothing in the application paperwork suggests the endowment taken was 
unsuitable and its stated that he and Mrs M were comfortable with low risk  which is what 
the product they took was. So the agent recommended (by Mr Ms own recollections) a 
cheaper product, that was expected to meet their requirements and make them a profit, over 
a more expensive product that wouldnt give any profit. Again, while now with the benefit of 
hindsight I see why he wishes theyd chosen the repayment mortgage. But at the time I cant 
say the advice was wrong.
Mr M has also said that Mrs M wasnt present for the meetings and she should have been. 
But the recommendation is written as if Mrs M was present. All her personal details have 
been captured, the agents notes refer to clients  plural, and shes signed the paperwork, 
with all parties dating their signatures the same day. But in any event, its not in dispute that 
Mrs M did agree to this endowment and take it out. Or that she did sign the forms for it. And 
it hasnt been suggested that any of the information captured is incorrect. So Mrs Ms 
choosing to go ahead despite supposedly not being in the meetings isnt something I would 
uphold this case for now. 
Mr M has suggested that, with hindsight, he imagines the agent got better commission for 
the endowment than a repayment mortgage. But theres nothing to substantiate this claim. 
Hes suggested B&B should have paperwork on the commission, but I can see that the 
amount of commission the agent did receive is set out on the paperwork when the product 
has been agreed. So I dont expect B&B to hold paperwork for a product that wasnt taken 
out, over twenty years later. And as above, as I consider this was a suitable 
recommendation considering Mr and Mrs Ms situation, this doesnt support that the agent 
steered Mr and Mrs M towards an endowment only for commission.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman