DRN-2005731
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of his mother that TSB Bank plc would not allow her access to her 
account, and related issues.
What happened
Mrs A has an illness which intermittently causes her to struggle to manage her finances, 
although this problem has not been so severe as to lead her to execute a power of attorney. 
On the occasions when she cannot manage, her son helps her. She is represented by her 
son in this complaint. He says that in 2019 the bank would not allow either of them to access 
her account during phone calls in which they could not answer the banks security questions. 
He complains that the banks staff repeatedly hung up the phone on him, and would not 
allow him to speak to their managers, or divulge their surnames when asked for them. He 
says that different call handlers asked different security questions, and so he argues that 
when he was asked a question he couldnt answer, the call handlers should have asked him 
another question which he could answer.
Mr And Mrs A visited a branch together and asked to speak to the manager, but the 
manager was busy and sent another member of staff to deal with them instead. During this 
visit his mother became ill and an ambulance had to be called for her. The police were also 
called, and they escorted Mr A from the premises and told him not to return. Mr A complains 
about these issues and says they were the banks fault. He says Mrs As online banking was 
blocked, and he alleges that TSB did this in reprisal for him complaining. Finally, Mr A says 
that TSB suggested that his mother should apply for him to have formal third party access to 
the account, or alternatively a power of attorney in his favour. He complains that TSB had 
not mentioned that before, and says that if the bank had suggested it earlier then this could 
have been arranged earlier.
TSB did not accept that it had done anything wrong. It said if customers (or their 
representatives) cannot answer security questions, then of course they should not be 
allowed to access their account. The phone calls had been ended because they had served 
no purpose, and also because Mr A had become difficult on the phone. Staff were not 
obliged to disclose their surnames, but they had instead disclosed unique numbers which 
could be used to identify them if necessary. They could not select which security questions 
to ask. The police had been called because Mr A had become aggressive and abusive to 
staff and to another customer. TSB denied that it was responsible for Mrs A becoming ill. It 
had blocked her online banking because it appeared that she had shared her login 
information with her son, which was a breach of the account terms and conditions. It had not 
previously had reason to think that Mrs A needed to give her son third party access to the 
account, since she had generally been able to manage to give the bank coherent 
instructions.
Our investigator accepted the banks arguments, and did not uphold this complaint. He also 
listened to the call recordings, and he agreed that Mr A had been difficult during the calls. He 
referred to one call in particular in which Mr A had screamed at a member of staff and 
insulted her. Mr A did not accept the investigators decision, and so this complaint has been 
referred to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The whole point of a bank asking security questions is to protect its customers accounts 
from fraudsters. This wouldnt work if, on receiving the wrong answer or no answer, the bank 
just kept on asking more questions until the caller finally gave a correct answer. In this way, 
a fraudster could successfully impersonate the account holder and steal their money. So 
once a caller has failed to pass security, ending the call is precisely what should happen. 
There is no point, and considerable risk, in continuing with a call with a person who has 
failed to verify their identity. If there was any fault on the part of TSB, its that it continued 
these calls for longer than was necessary. So I do not uphold the complaint about ending the 
calls, or refusing to accept instructions on the phone.
For similar reasons, I think TSB was entitled to block Mrs As online banking, once it realised 
that the account security had been compromised. If Mrs A wants her son to have direct 
access to her account, then she will need to set up formal third party access to the account, 
or get a power of attorney. The bank can help her choose which option best suits her needs.
Since the effect of Mrs As condition is intermittent, I accept TSBs explanation that it had not 
thought she needed third party access or a power of attorney before late 2019. So I dont 
uphold the complaint about the bank not raising this matter sooner. In coming to that 
conclusion I have taken into account section 2 of the Mental Capacity Act 2005, which 
expressly recognises that mental impairment can be temporary. I have also noted that Mr A 
told TSB that his mother did not want a power of attorney, so there can have been no 
disadvantage to her of the bank not mentioning that possibility to her earlier.
I was sorry to read about Mrs A being taken ill at the branch, but I am satisfied that this was 
not TSBs fault. The manager was unavoidably busy (he was the only person on the 
premises who was able to carry out transactions over the counter, so he had to help other 
customers). He sent another member of staff to deal with Mrs A, and I have no reason to 
doubt that that person was suitably trained to do so.
There is a dispute about who called the police, but I dont think it is necessary for me to 
resolve that question, because it is not in dispute that when the police attended, they 
removed Mr A from the premises (he described it as being arrested; I do not know whether 
they in fact arrested him). I dont think its TSBs fault that the police did that.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman