DRN-3938147
The complaint
Mr C has complained about how Covea Insurance plc (Covea) dealt with a claim under his 
home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr C contacted Covea to make a claim. While Covea was assessing the claim, it found that 
Mr Cs partner, who lived at the same address, had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) in her 
name that hadnt been declared. It contacted Mr C and also checked the position through the 
broker. Based on information provided by the broker, Covea decided that Mr C would have 
been aware of the CCJ. So, Covea voided the policy, as it said it wouldnt have provided 
cover if it had known about the CCJ.
Mr C complained to Covea, as he said both he and his partner were unaware of the CCJ. 
When Covea looked into this it concluded that the broker had provided the wrong 
explanation about the CCJ, which it had then acted on. So, Covea reinstated the policy and 
dealt with the claim. Covea confirmed to Mr C that it had followed the correct processes but 
said it could have done more to set his expectations around the claim process. It said it 
would provide feedback to those involved.
Mr C contacted this service, as he wanted Covea to pay compensation. Our investigator 
didnt uphold the complaint. She said Covea has followed its processes when it was 
validating the claim. When it realised the information from the broker was misleading, it 
reinstated the policy and dealt with the claim. She said Covea didnt need to do anything 
further, as this put Mr C back in the position he would have been in had the policy not been 
voided.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Its normal for an insurer to validate a claim. While Covea was doing this, it found that Mr Cs 
partner had a CCJ, which it hadnt been made unaware of. Covea contacted both Mr C and 
the broker to get more information. Im aware Covea wanted to speak to Mr Cs partner, but 
Mr C said she wasnt willing to do so. Shortly after, Covea voided the policy as, based on the 
information provided by the broker, it assessed that Mr C had been aware of the CCJ. Covea 
said it wouldnt have offered the policy had it known about the CCJ. I havent seen anything 
that persuades me Coveas actions in validating the claim were unreasonable.
When Mr C complained, Covea looked into the CCJ further. Covea then found that the 
broker seemed to have provided the wrong explanation about the CCJ. So, it reinstated the 
policy. Im aware Mr C wants compensation because of the impact on him of what 
happened. 
Ive thought about this carefully. I can understand Mr C was concerned by what happened. 
Im aware Mr C also contacted Covea a number of times to try and find out what was 
happening with his claim. Covea accepted it could have better set Mr Cs expectations 
around the claims process. Im also mindful that an insurer is entitled to carry out checks in 
order to validate a claim. I also think it was reasonable for Covea to rely on information 
provided by the broker. When it was identified that the information might have been 
incorrect, Covea acted on this by making further enquiries and then reinstating the policy.
I think Covea took Mr Cs concerns seriously and that it acted fairly by reinstating the policy 
and dealing with the claim. Taking into account the full circumstances of this complaint, I 
think what Covea did to resolve it was fair and I dont require it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman