The complaint
Mr S complains that Assurant General Insurance Limited has unfairly declined a claim on 
his gadget insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr S lost his mobile phone whilst helping a friend move house. He says 
the phone was in a pouch bag that he was wearing over his head and across his chest. He 
was lifting heavy furniture all day and it wasnt until later that he noticed the bag had gone. 
He searched the area where hed been but couldnt find it. And when he tried calling the 
phone, it was switched off. So he made a claim on his insurance.
Assurant asked Mr S for proof of purchase along with proof that his network provider 
had sent him a replacement SIM. He did this but Assurant declined the claim. It said it 
wasnt persuaded that Mr S would not notice the bag was missing.
Mr S complained. And after further questioning, Assurant confirmed again that the claim was 
declined. This was because it said Mr S had provided inconsistent information on how the 
phone was lost. It said Mr S now claimed that the phone was in his jacket pocket.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. She listened to the calls Mr S had with 
Assurant and was satisfied he didnt give inconsistent information. She said Mr S had 
explained the zip on his jacket pocket was broken, which is why he put the phone in his bag 
instead. She noted that English isnt Mr S first language and that Assurant had likely 
misheard or misunderstood him.
She also said Assurant initially rejected the claim because it didnt believe Mr S could lose 
his bag without noticing. But she was satisfied he could. This is because he was lifting large 
and heavy furniture from his friends home to a van down the street, so she thought it 
understandable that his focus wasnt on the whereabouts of his bag.
To put things right, our investigator said Assurant should reconsider the claim, remove 
any internal or external record of fraud and pay £100 compensation. Mr S agreed with 
this outcome, but Assurant didnt. Assurant said it still had concerns about the claim because 
Mr S had said he was wearing a t-shirt and hoody at the time of losing his phone but there is 
now mention of him having a jacket.
The complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a provisional decision, in which I 
said as follows:
DRN-2022758Mr S has a gadget insurance policy which covers his device against loss, theft 
and accidental damage. If he makes a valid claim, the policy says he will be sent a 
replacement phone.
In the first instance its for the policyholder to prove their claim. Mr S provided 
evidence requested of him to show that hed purchased the phone and that hed requested 
a replacement SIM after the incident. He explained in some detail what had happened 
and what he was doing on the day when he lost his phone. Im satisfied Mr S could lose 
his phone in the way he describes.
Where a policyholder has, on the face of it, shown they have a valid claim but the insurer  
declines the claim, Id expect it to show which policy term it is relying on. And I would 
consider whether its fair and reasonable for it to do so.
Mr S claim was initially declined because Assurant wasnt persuaded he could lose his 
bag without realising. As Ive explained, I think he could have done so. In these 
circumstances, to decline the claim Assurant needs to show there are inconsistencies or 
untruthful information provided. Or there is a relevant policy exclusion that applies. I dont 
think Assurant had reasonable grounds to decline the claim.
Following this, Assurant questioned Mr S further. And it says he provided inconsistencies 
in his story at that point. Assurant says Mr S gave misleading information, and this is in 
breach of a policy term that required him to take reasonable care to answer all questions 
honestly and to the best of your knowledge. Failure to do so may affect the validity of your 
policy or the payment of your claim.
Having listened to the call, I dont agree Mr S gave misleading information. As  
our investigator has explained, its clear Mr S was explaining that his phone was in a 
bag because the zip on his jacket pocket was broken.
Assurant says this proves Mr S has given inconsistent information because he 
hadnt mentioned wearing a jacket. But he didnt say he was wearing the jacket at the time. 
And I dont think that because Mr S explained why he hadnt put his phone in his jacket 
pocket, this meant he was wearing a jacket. He may have chosen not to wear the jacket 
because of the broken zip or he may have removed it during the day. Mr S was merely 
explaining why he had chosen to use the bag for his phone. And I wouldnt expect someone 
to be wearing a jacket whilst carrying out manual work in mid-August.
I dont agree that Mr S has provided inconsistent information during the course of his claim.
And I dont think its fair or reasonable for Assurant to decline cover on the basis that it
doesnt believe his version of events.
Given the time thats passed since making this claim, I expect that Mr S would 
have purchased a new phone. I dont think reconsidering his claim under the policy is a 
suitable resolution at this stage. So Im intending to direct Assurant to pay the cost of the 
claim. This will be the amount it would cost for Mr S to purchase the same make and model 
phone. 
If Assurant has recorded any information, either internally or externally, against Mr S 
with regard to its allegations of false or fraudulent information or its declined claim these 
should be removed.
Im also intending to direct Assurant to pay compensation of £300. This is to reflect the 
upset caused to Mr S by having his claim unfairly declined, and the trouble hes been put to 
by being without a phone for many months after making a valid claim on his policy.Replies to the provisional decision
Mr S replied to say he's happy with the provisional decision. 
Assurant says it accepts the findings and agrees to accept the claim, provide Mr S with a 
cash settlement equivalent to the market value of the device, including 8% simple interest 
(from the date the claim was accepted), and will remove his name from any internal or 
external databases it may use. But it does not agree with the proposed compensation figure 
of £300.
Assurant says this amount seems high in relation to the delays it caused. Although the claim 
was back in 2019, it says the majority of the time since then has arisen while the complaint 
was being considered by this service, and it shouldn't have to compensate Mr S for delays it 
didn't cause. Assurant considers £100 would be a more suitable figure for the error 
it caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
Assurant has accepted most of the findings in the provisional decision. So the only issue still 
in dispute that I need to decide, is the amount of compensation to be paid for the trouble and 
upset caused to Mr S.
Assurant's view is that it isn't responsible for all the delays that have arisen and points out 
that much of the time that has passed has been while the complaint was with this service. I 
appreciate the complaint has been with us for some time. I've considered this but I think the 
key point here is that the claim wasn't dealt with as it should have been. If Assurant had 
dealt with the claim correctly in the first place, Mr S would not have been left without his 
phone and none of the subsequent delays would have happened. So in my judgment the fair 
thing to do is to compensate him for this. And having reviewed this carefully it's still my view 
that £300 is a reasonable amount. 
Putting things right
To put things right, Assurant needs to
pay to Mr S the amount it would cost for him to purchase the same make and model 
of phone, together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from the date 
he made his claim to the date it makes the payment*; 
remove any information it has recorded, either internally or externally, against Mr S 
with regard to its allegations of false or fraudulent information or its declined claim;
pay Mr S compensation of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
 
*If Assurant General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to take the steps set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2020.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman