DRN-3890852
The complaint
Ms D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) acted unfairly by 
continuing to apply overdraft charges to her account when she was in financial difficulty. 
What happened
Ms D complained to Halifax that the overdraft charges applied to her account were 
unaffordable and causing her financial difficulty.
Halifax says credit balances have been seen on the account on several points since 2016 
and that the amounts of credits per month exceed the overdraft amount of £2,350. Halifax 
says any issues were caused by Ms Ds transactions which do not indicate financial 
difficulties. 
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and thought that Halifax shouldve realised 
that Ms D was in financial difficulty and refunded the overdraft charges applied to the 
account from January 2017 because the account in question hadnt maintained a credit 
balance for a significant period of time. 
Halifax disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
So the complaint came to me for a decision. I issued my provisional decision on 6 December 
2022. In my provisional decision, I explained why I was proposing not to uphold Ms Ds 
complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final decision 
and neither Halifax or Ms D have added anything further that changed my mind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said that:
Ive seen that Ms D has in some of her correspondence referred to the proportionality of the 
charges applied to her account. But before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I 
havent considered whether the various amounts Halifax charged over the years were fair 
and reasonable, or proportionate in comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at Halifaxs various 
charging structures or processes per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards 
Ms D if it applied any interest, fees and charges to Ms Ds account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Ms D was experiencing 
financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Halifax didnt treat Ms D fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Halifax did treat Ms D unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because having looked at Ms Ds statements I cant see anything to suggest that 
Halifax ought to have realised she might have been experiencing financial difficulty prior to it 
being notified of this. 
Ms D may argue her regular use of her overdraft was in itself an indication that she was 
struggling. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Ms D 
expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual 
and discretionary transactions  in particular regular spending on high end retail shops.
There were regular credits and cash transfers into the account and Ms D was able to bring 
the overdraft down and sometimes pay it off before once again going on to use her overdraft 
to make debit card transactions, further money transfers and cash withdrawals. I accept this 
doesnt necessarily mean that Mrs I wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt 
anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Halifax to any 
potential financial difficulty. And although there were periods of time where Ms D didnt see a 
credit balance Ms D kept within her limit and was often at the lower end of it. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Halifax to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Ms Ds account was being used. 
So taking everything into consideration I dont think Halifax treated Ms D unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that Im currently not minded to uphold this complaint. 
Ms D says that the regular payments being made into her account were from friends and 
family to allow her to help but products from high end retail shops as she gets a discount. 
That may well be the case but Ive seen no evidence that Halifax understood that so I cant 
say that Halifax ought to have known she was in financial difficulty. 
So that being the case and as I havent been given any further evidence or arguments to 
change my mind, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional 
decision and it follows that I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Ds complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman