DRN-3962066
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund money he lost to a scam.
What happened
Mr D invested just over £32,000 in a company Ill refer to as G. Unfortunately, G went into 
liquidation. Mr D made a claim through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) and in March 2021 received a full refund of the investment funds hed lost.
While Mr D was waiting to receive his refund cheque from the FSCS, he received a letter 
from a separate company who Ill refer to as A. A told Mr D that by paying certain fees and 
costs, they could recover the funds hed lost from his investment with G.
Between March 2021 and June 2021, Mr D made over 30 payments to accounts held in 
multiple different names totalling over £48,000 - as requested by A. When Mr D didnt get his 
refund from A as expected, Mr D realised hed fallen victim to a scam and reported it to 
Metro.
Metro considered Mr Ds fraud claim but declined to refund him, saying he didnt have a valid 
scam claim. And, while they tried to recover the money from the beneficiary banks, they 
were only able to recover £37  which was credited to Mr Ds account.
Mr D wasnt happy with Metros response and brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Mr Ds complaint and partially upheld it. They explained that Mr D 
wasnt entitled to a refund for the payments he made under the CRM Code as he didnt 
make the payments for a genuine service or legitimate payment purpose. But, the 
investigator found that Metro couldve recovered an additional £2,000 from one of the 
beneficiary banks and recommended they refund this to Mr D.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators recommendation, saying Metro took too long to 
report the scam to the beneficiary banks and couldve done more to recover his money. As 
the case couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same answer as the investigator for the following reasons:
Im not satisfied that Mr Ds claim is covered by the CRM Code as I dont believe he 
made the payments for a legitimate or genuine purpose. Mr D had already made a 
claim for his loss through the FSCS and been advised that he would be getting a full 
refund before he made any payments as part of this scam. Therefore, Mr D was 
attempting to double recover these funds despite knowing he wasnt entitled to that 
additional money. This means the payments arent within the scope of the CRM 
Code.
Im satisfied that Metro couldve recovered an additional £2,000 from one of the 
beneficiary banks and should refund Mr D those funds. The beneficiary bank requires 
an indemnity from Metro to release the funds and it appears that Metro has some 
process issues around providing it. However, Metro is required to provide the refund 
to Mr D as the funds are available and being held by the beneficiary bank. Its for 
Metro to liaise with the beneficiary bank in order to release the funds.
The investigator contacted all of the beneficiary banks and received confirmation that 
by the time Mr D reported the scam to Metro, the funds had been removed from the 
beneficiary accounts and only £37 could be recovered  which has been paid to him. 
Most of the funds were removed from the beneficiarys accounts the same day as 
they were received which was well before Mr D reported the scam.
Metro has taken the appropriate action and steps to try and recover Mr Ds funds. I 
appreciate that Mr D believes the beneficiary banks shouldve done more, however I 
can only consider Metros actions in this case and not those of the beneficiary banks.
I realise that Mr D is going to be very disappointed as hes lost over £48,000. But Ive 
carefully considered whether, despite the payments not being covered by the CRM Code, I 
can or should fairly hold Metro liable for Mr Ds loss. And, based on the circumstances of this 
case, Im not satisfied that I can fairly ask Metro to refund Mr D, as he was trying to double 
recover funds that he had already obtained through the FSCS.
Putting things right
To put things right Metro Bank PLC should refund Mr D the £2,000 they couldve recovered 
from one of the beneficiary banks.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Metro Bank PLC to compensate 
Mr D as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman