DRN-4121745
The complaint
G complains that Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited gave it incorrect information at inception 
and renewal of its landlords insurance policy that led it to be underpaid by the insurer 
following a claim. 
As a director of G, Mr B brings the complaint on its behalf. He has been represented by a 
third party throughout the complaint. Jelf has also been represented by a third party. For 
ease of reading Ive referred just to Mr B and Jelf throughout this decision. All references to 
both include the actions of each partys representative.  
What happened
G owns a number of properties that it rents out. Mr B purchases landlords insurance for the 
properties through a broker  Jelf. 
One of the properties consists of a restaurant on the ground floor and residential flats on the 
floors above. In 2019 there was a fire in the restaurant of this property and Mr B made a 
claim on the insurance. The claim was accepted however the insurer said the rebuild cost 
that had been set in the policy for the property was too low. It therefore applied the average 
clause in the policy to reduce the claim settlement proportionately based on the amount of 
underinsurance. 
Mr B was unhappy with this and initially made a complaint against the insurer of the policy 
for unfairly reducing the claim settlement. This came to our service and I issued a previous 
decision that didnt uphold the complaint. 
Subsequently Mr B made a complaint about Jelf. He said that Jelf hadnt provided the 
correct information at the start of the policy or at the 2018 renewal (the policy year of the 
claim). He said it had told him that if he had a valuation from within three years of when the 
policy period began, then a waiver of average would apply and the insurer wouldnt be able 
to apply the average clause in the event of a claim. However it turned out that the valuation 
was required to be within three years of the claim. Mr B said he had provided Jelf with the 
valuation and it should have informed him that  because it was from 2016, it would only 
cover part of the policy year and he would need a more recent one to cover the full year. 
Jelf didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said it had provided Mr B with the information about the 
waiver of average and it was for him to ensure he had the right valuation. It said Mr B hadnt 
provided a copy of the valuation until after the claim was made. And at renewal it had 
advised him to get a cost assessment of all his properties and it had provided details of a 
company that he could do this through. So it didnt agree it had provided unclear or incorrect 
information. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B asked this service to investigate.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she thought Jelf had provided clear information about the average waiver in the policy 
both in writing and during a meeting. And the onus was on Mr B to ensure he met the 
requirements of the waiver. 
Mr B didnt agree. In summary, he said:
The renewal documents said that a valuation report was required within 3 years not 
within three years of any damage.
The minutes of the renewal meeting were inaccurate, and Jelf had actually said a 
new valuation wasnt needed.
Jelf failed to check if he had all the documents he needed to satisfy the average 
waiver and if it hadnt been for Jelfs negligence then he would have got a full claim 
payment so Jelf should pay the difference. 
At the point of the claim, Jelf said they would give the insurer the valuation as 
evidence of an adequate reinstatement sum insured. He felt this suggested Jelf 
considered the valuation to be sufficient for the waiver to apply. 
Mr B asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Jelf has acted as a broker for Mr B for a number of years and the sale of the policies were on 
an advised basis. This means, under the Financial Conduct Authoritys(FCA) Insurance 
Conduct of Business regulations (ICOBS), Jelf had a responsibility to recommend insurance 
policies that are suitable for Gs needs. And to provide appropriate information at inception 
and each renewal that is clear and not misleading. This is to enable Mr B to make an 
informed choice about the cover he required for G.
There has been some disagreement about whether the valuation from 2016 was provided to 
Jelf by Mr B or not. However the complaint comes down to whether Jelf met its obligations to 
recommend a suitable policy and provide sufficient information about the policy at sale and 
renewal. 
As part of these obligations, I wouldnt expect Jelf to check that Mr B had done everything he 
needed to do to meet the requirements of the terms of the policy. Its laid out why it 
considers the policy to be suitable for Gs needs. And this includes having an average 
waiver, if certain conditions are met.
I dont consider that Jelfs responsibility extends to checking that Mr B has a valuation that 
meets the requirements. In the same way it wouldnt be for Jelf to make sure that Mr B was, 
for example, checking his rental properties every three months in order to fulfil the 
requirements for cover under other areas of the policy. Its Mr Bs responsibility to ensure he 
is doing this in order to have cover provided for these areas. The same applies to the 
average waiver in the policy. Its for Jelf to let Mr B know about the average clause and that 
it can be waived if certain requirements are met. But its then for Mr B to ensure these are 
met if he wants to rely on it. 
So as I dont consider it Jelfs responsibility to check the requirement is met, I wont consider 
whether the valuation was provided to Jelf or not. As I dont consider this to be material to 
the outcome. Instead the key consideration is whether Jelf recommended a suitable policy 
and provided enough information to make the requirements of the average waiver term clear to Mr B, and in doing so met its obligations to provide clear information about the policy 
under ICOBS. 
Mr B says that Jelf provided incorrect information about what was required in order for the 
average waiver to apply. He says that it said a valuation had to be within three years of when 
the policy incepted or renewed. And not within three years of the damage that was claimed 
for. 
Ive looked at the information provided by Jelf. The renewal in question here is the one in 
2018. And in the summary of the insurance cover, the renewal documents state as follows:
"Average free" buildings cover where a RICS valuation has been carried out in the last 3 
years. Where a buildings policy is subject to an "Average clause", the payout would be 
calculated with a pro rata reduction in line with the underinsurance
While I understand what Mr B has said about the last 3 years seemingly applying to the 
three years up until the renewal date, I dont consider this a reasonable interpretation of this 
statement. 
A policy is only assessed for underinsurance at the point of a claim. So the average waiver 
would only be relied upon at this point. Therefore the wording would come into play when a 
claim was made  so I think its clear that the wording would apply to this point and that this 
would mean the valuation was required within three years of a claim, not from the beginning 
of a policy period. And as a sophisticated customer with a property portfolio I think Mr B 
should reasonably have had enough information to make this assessment.
Further, from the minutes of the meeting where the 2018 renewal was discussed it notes that 
Jelf recommended a formal building cost assessment was carried out and that it 
recommended a specific firm that would be able to assist. I understand Mr B has disputed 
this account of the discussions during the meeting. However the minutes were produced 
some time before the issue with the sum insured arose, and I am persuaded that its most 
likely Jelf did recommend a cost assessment was carried out as I consider it unlikely this 
would have been included in the minutes otherwise.
But regardless, the information provided at renewal was clear enough for Mr B to understand 
the terms of the policy, even without a further reminder at the meeting. I therefore think Jelf 
has done enough to meet its requirements as a broker to make the policy information clear 
to Mr B. I therefore wont ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B, on behalf of 
G, to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman