DRN-3557856
The complaint
Mr K complains about the way AM Marketing Group Ltd (AMMG) ended a hire agreement he 
had with them, for the use of a car.
Throughout this complaint, Mr K has been represented by a third party. But for ease, Ill just 
to refer to Mr K.
What happened
In January 2020, AMMG entered into a hire agreement with a vehicle leasing company, who 
Ill call X, for a car. Around eight months later, AMMG provided Mr K with a separate hire 
agreement, for the same car.
Mr K paid for the first five months to use the car under the agreement. But, in March 2021, X 
arrived at Mr Ks home, to take the car back. X had previously written to AMMG to say they 
were terminating their agreement, but AMMG hadnt contacted Mr K beforehand, to tell him 
what was happening.
While at Mr Ks home, X subsequently made their own hire agreement with him, meaning he 
was able to retain the car he had been using. However, Mr K complained to AMMG, 
because his monthly payment amount had increased, compared to his previous agreement. 
He also said AMMG owed him for the lost days he had already paid for, after his agreement 
with them had ended.
AMMG didnt respond to Mr Ks complaint, so he brought his concerns to us. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr K case and found that AMMG wasnt responsible for the contract 
Mr K subsequently agreed with X. 
The investigator also concluded that AMMG should refund a proportion of Mr Ks initial 
payment and refund an amount for the days Mr K had paid for but wasnt able to use the car. 
And he said AMMG should add interest to both refunds and pay Mr K £300 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused.
Both AMMG and Mr K made various other suggestions after the investigator reached his 
conclusions, but a settlement wasnt reached. So, Mr Ks case has now been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about a car supplied under a hire agreement, which is a regulated activity. 
This means we can consider Mr Ks complaint about AMMG. Specifically, Mr K says there 
was a breach of contract by AMMG in the way they ended the hire agreement. 
Section nine of the terms and conditions for Mr Ks agreement with AMMG covers the 
termination process. I dont think AMMG placed a specific term within the contract to say 
what would happen to Mr Ks monthly payment, should the car be taken away part way 
through the month. I think the agreement allows for Mr K to end the contract at any point, or 
for AMMG to take the car back should Mr K fall behind with repayments.
From looking at Mr Ks bank statements I can see that he maintained the payments due 
under the hire agreement with AMMG. So, I dont think AMMG had cause to terminate the 
agreement because of a missed payment or the accumulation of arrears. On balance, I think 
AMMG ended the agreement, because of the circumstances of their own relationship with X.
Overall, I think AMMG did breach the contract they had with Mr K, when the agreement was 
ended on the same day that X tried to take the car back. So, Ive gone on to consider the 
impact on Mr K and if AMMG needs to put things right.
I think Mr K found himself in a very unfortunate situation. I acknowledge that it must have 
been very frustrating for him, when X arrived at his home, to take the car back. Mr K has 
previously asked for AMMG to refund all the payments he had made under the hire 
agreement.
However, I can see that Mr K had use of the car from the start of the hire agreement in 
November 2020, until it was terminated in March 2021. I think it follows that its fair for Mr K 
to pay for the usage he had from the car, so I dont think AMMG should have to refund all of 
those repayments.
Ive also looked at the subsequent agreement that Mr K entered into with X. Mr K says that 
the monthly payments to X were more than he was paying to AMMG, so hed also like a 
proportion of those payments refunded.
Although I empathise with the position Mr K found himself in, I think there were other options 
available. I agree that looking elsewhere for a hire agreement, at a time when X had arrived 
unannounced, would have caused further frustration. But, I think looking elsewhere was an 
option for Mr K. So, I dont think it would be fair to hold AMMG responsible for Mr Ks 
decision to enter into an agreement with X.
Ive concluded that AMMG ended their contract with Mr K part way through a month, where 
hed already paid to use the car until the next payment was due. I think this means Mr K has 
suffered a financial loss and that AMMG should refund him for the lost days of usage from 
March 2021.
There are around fourteen days from the day the agreement was terminated by AMMG, to 
the day the next payment was due. Mr Ks monthly payment to AMMG was £899. So, I think 
its fair for AMMG to pay Mr K £414, to reflect the usage he had paid for, but didnt receive.
Similarly, Mr K made an initial payment of £2,399.88, to AMMG, when the hire agreement 
started. The agreement was in place for just over four months, meaning there were eight 
months remaining, when AMMG breached the contract with Mr K.
I dont think its fair for AMMG to retain all of the initial payment, as Mr K didnt benefit from 
agreement, for a significant proportion of its twelve month term. Having considered 
everything, I think its fair for AMMG to pay £1,599.92 to Mr K, as a proportion of the initial 
payment, when AMMG ended the agreement early.
Mr K has been without the use of the funds from the lost usage and the initial payment. So, I 
think its fair for AMMG to add interest at 8% a year simple to each amount, from the date 
they were paid, to the date of settlement of this complaint.Ive thought about the circumstances of the ending of Mr Ks hire agreement with AMMG and 
I agree it caused him distress and inconvenience. I think the arrival of X to Mr Ks home early 
in the morning would have caused alarm and disrupted a large part of Mr Ks plans in the 
days following. In all the circumstances, I think its fair for AMMG to pay Mr K £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience they caused to him.
Putting things right
For these reasons AM Marketing Group Ltd should:
1. pay Mr K £414 for the days he couldnt use the car, but had paid for under the hire 
agreement;
2. pay Mr K £1,599.92 as a pro rata refund of the initial payment used in the hire 
agreement;
3. add interest at a rate of 8% a year simple to parts one and two of this settlement, 
from the dates they were paid, to the date of settlement of this complaint; and
4. pay Mr K £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
AMMG must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr K 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
settlement amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple. 
If AMMG deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr K, they should provide Mr K with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AM Marketing Group Ltd to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman