DRN-3412556
The complaint
Mr P complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited (Moneybarn) made mistakes and should 
have agreed to reschedule arrears on a finance agreement he had with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr P, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr P acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
When Mr P asked Moneybarn to spread the arrears on his account over the remainder of the 
term Moneybarn didnt provide an answer there and then. They collected information about 
his income and expenditure and subsequently upheld Mr Ps complaint as they said they 
hadnt provided a response.
Moneybarns system notes show that they explained at the time of Mr Ps call that they 
would need to review the income and expenditure information before they could provide an 
answer and I can understand that would have been necessary. So, whilst I understand that 
there was a delay I think it was an inevitable delay whilst Moneybarn took time to consider 
Mr Ps situation.
Theyve explained that they wouldnt usually spread arrears across the remaining term, and I 
dont think they were wrong to want to set up a separate payment plan for the arrears alone. 
That would, I think, help them to report any further missed payments correctly to Mr Ps 
credit file.
I dont think Moneybarn were unreasonable when they sought to assess Mr Ps ability to 
repay the agreement on his current income and expenditure. Whilst Mr Ps employment 
status may well have been changing in the future, at that point a reassessment could have 
been conducted.
Moneybarn upheld Mr Ps complaint in their final response to him in December 2021 but they 
didnt have to offer any payment for distress and inconvenience. Id expect them to if there 
was clear evidence some had been incurred but, as I think there would always have needed 
to be a delay in assessing Mr Ps future payments, I dont think it would be fair to insist that 
was the case. Im not therefore asking Moneybarn to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman