DRN-4180512
The complaint
Ms M complains about WPS ADVISORY Ltds service in connection with advice about 
whether to transfer the benefits from her employers occupational pension defined benefit 
(DB) scheme to an alternative pension arrangement.
In bringing this complaint and dealing with WPS Ms Ms been supported by her partner, 
Mr C.
What happened
Ms M is a deferred member of her employers DB scheme. In June 2022 WPS wrote to her 
with an offer to give advice, funded by her employer, concerning her options in respect of 
accessing her DB scheme funds. Ms M filled in some fact-find paperwork and WPS arranged 
for her to speak with an adviser. 
Ms M had received a quote for a cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of £60,005 to 
transfer the benefits from her DB scheme to an alternative arrangement. The quote was 
guaranteed until 30 August 2022. 
WPS obtained a transfer value comparator (TVC), which compared the value of her DB 
scheme benefits with equivalent products she could buy on the open market. The TVC 
indicated that to buy the equivalent benefits to those offered by her DB scheme it would cost 
Ms M £111,052. 
WPS also sent Ms M its client agreement, which said that WPS advice was based on the 
information Ms M gave to it. It noted that Ms M agreed to disclose to it all information and 
circumstances relevant to it giving its advice and that if she didnt do so, it may consider its 
advice null and void.
On 1 July 2022 WPS adviser spoke with Ms M. I've listened to that call. Amongst other 
things Ms M said that she was 59 years old, working and hoped to retire the following year. 
She said she was single with no dependents. She owned her own home and car and was 
debt free. She had £50,000 in savings which she wanted to keep as an emergency fund. 
She told the adviser she had a very cautious attitude towards investment risk. She said her 
preference was to take the full amount of the CETV  £60,005  from her DB pension and 
put it in the bank.
The adviser asked Ms M about what she wanted to do in retirement. Ms M said she hoped to 
maintain her lifestyle as it was at the time. But she wanted to be able to take some extra 
holidays. She said she could sell her house, which was worth around £350,000, and 
downsize at some point in the future. She estimated shed need around £200,000 to buy 
another home to live in. She added that she wanted to be able to live her life without 
worrying about what she had to pay for. She said she needed an income of around £1,600 a 
month and anticipated, from her state pension and her other pensions, shed have an 
income of around £1,000 a month in retirement, not including her DB pension. The adviser 
asked her how she intended to address her income shortfall throughout her retirement if she 
were to retire early. She said she hadn't really thought that far. The adviser said Ms M would 
be better off staying in her DB scheme. Ms M said she agreed and, when asked, said she 
had no further points to make.
A few days later Ms M wrote to WPS. She said she was disappointed following the call with 
the adviser. She felt it was too brief. She said the adviser didnt ask relevant questions about 
her future requirements and financial needs. She described it as a Friday afternoon call 
and said the advisers attitude was lets get it over with.
WPS arranged for Ms M to speak with a second adviser in August 2022. Mr C was present 
during the subsequent calls with the second adviser. Ms M and Mr C said they planned to 
marry later that year. They said they had a home each and split their time between both. 
They added that they had money they didnt need and that the income from the DB scheme 
was of little use to them. 
There was then a short delay, as the second adviser had a family emergency. The second 
adviser then spoke with Ms M and Mr C again and discussed further options for Ms Ms DB 
scheme. They agreed to have a further discussion once Ms M and Mr C came back from a 
holiday they would be going on shortly. 
Following their holiday the second adviser spoke with Ms M and Mr C again. Amongst other 
things they said theyd been together as a couple for around four years. Mr C said he didnt 
own his flat but rented it and had disposable income of around £1,400 a month which could 
support the pair of them. He also said he had considerable other assets. The second adviser 
said the first CETV quote had expired and hed requested a new one. He said hed get back 
to them after receiving that. 
In September, October and November 2022 Mr C phoned WPS on a number of occasions 
seeking an update. During that time the second adviser was unavailable as he was off work 
sick. On more than one occasion Mr C said that the initial adviser hadn't done his job 
properly, had only spoken to Ms M for 10 to 15 minutes on a Friday afternoon and hadn't 
asked her the relevant questions.
In the meantime, on 6 October 2022, WPS received the recalculated CETV, which had 
reduced to £53,794 guaranteed until 23 December 2022. 
In November 2022 WPS reviewed the advice its initial adviser provided. It said Ms M hadn't 
disclosed all material information to it and as such the advice was null and void. It later 
responded to Ms Ms and Mr Cs complaints about its service. It said it didnt think their 
comments about the content of the initial advisers call reflected the actual experience. And 
that the initial advice was reasonable given the information Ms M had given to it. It added 
that it didn't feel it could continue to engage with them to offer advice.
Ms M brought her complaint to us. After she did so WPS offered to begin the advice process 
afresh. But, as Ms M didnt return a signed general client agreement agreeing to WPS terms 
of business, that didn't go ahead. 
One of our Investigators looked into Ms Ms complaint. She didnt think WPS needed to do 
anything further. Ms M didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In arriving at my determination Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, 
regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time. This includes the regulators Principles for Business 
(PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
And, while I've considered everything on file, I dont intend to address each and every point 
or issue raised. Instead I will focus my decision on what I see as being the key issues at the 
heart of the complaint Ms M and Mr C originally made to WPS and the reasons for my 
decision. 
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
What Ive set out below isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied 
at the time of the advice, but it provides useful context for my assessment of WPS' actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly similar reasons to those given by the Investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that, when 
considering a transfer from a DB scheme:
a firm should start by assuming that a transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A 
firm should only then consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
client's best interests.
So, the starting assumption is that a DB transfer is unsuitable. This is known as the 
presumption of unsuitability. It follows that WPS should only have considered 
recommending a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate on the evidence available at the time 
that it was in Ms Ms best interests.
The initial advice call
Shortly after the initial advice call on 1 July 2022, Ms M said she was disappointed with it. 
And, both her and Mr C made a number of comments about the call being a Friday 
afternoon call. That is Ms M and Mr C believed the adviser was going through the motions 
with one eye on finishing for the weekend and didnt ask the relevant questions or conduct 
the call appropriately. If he had, Ms M and Mr C feel hed have identified that he also needed 
to gather information about Mr Cs circumstances.
WPS gave us a recording of the call. Ive listened to it more than once. The call lasts for 45 
minutes. Ive noted Ms M said she expected it to last longer. But it's not clear what else she 
expected the adviser to reasonably ask her about that would require the call to be extended.I think it's worth pointing out that, prior to the call, Ms M had given WPS some details about 
her circumstances. And at that time she specifically told WPS that she was single. I 
understand that, at the time, Ms M and Mr C each had their own home but spent time at 
each others homes. In these circumstances, I can understand why Ms M answered the 
written questions that she was single as she wasnt married. But, she had the opportunity to 
give her partners details, as those were clearly relevant to her situation and future financial 
circumstances. But she didnt do so. 
Also when discussing her circumstances with the initial adviser, she again said she was 
single and not married. In fact, she didnt at any point mention Mr C or give any indication 
she was in a relationship. Nor did she give any sign that there was someone important to her 
with whom she would share financial burdens and benefits or who could help her meet her 
income needs in retirement if necessary. 
Mr C suggested that the initial adviser didnt do his job properly and if he had, the adviser 
would have gathered details of their relationship and his potential role in supporting Ms M 
financially in retirement. 
Ive listened to the initial advice call very carefully and I havent identified any point at which 
the adviser ought reasonably to have picked up on the fact that Ms M was in a relationship 
or would have some financial support. For example Ms M said she might sell her house and 
downsize at some point in the future. She added that, from the proceeds of the sale she 
would need around £200,000 to buy another house. She didnt suggest that she could simply 
move in with Mr C and use the capital from the house sale to help support her in retirement, 
which is what Mr C said could happen at a later date.
Similarly, when the adviser was running through Ms Ms potential income needs in 
retirement, he asked her how shed make up her income shortfall, which the adviser 
calculated was around £600 a month. Her answer was that she could sell her home. She 
didnt tell the adviser she could get by on less income because she would have Mr Cs help 
and together they had the means to support them both. And the rest of the conversation 
continued in that vein. So I don't think, realistically, the adviser had any real chance of 
identifying from the information Ms M gave to him that she had a partner, was in a 
relationship, or could benefit from financial support from someone else. 
The second adviser asked Ms M why she hadn't mentioned Mr C during the initial call. 
Ms Ms answer was at first because the adviser didnt ask her. But when reminded that shed 
been asked about partners details in the fact-find information she completed before the call, 
she said she hadn't mentioned Mr C because she wanted to go it alone. I note Mr C said 
he wasnt with Ms M when she spoke with the initial adviser; so it's not clear why he was so 
certain the initial adviser didnt do his job properly. The evidence simply doesnt support that 
argument. And, as I've said above, I dont think the adviser could have had any knowledge 
of Mr Cs existence in order to ask questions about his circumstances. 
Ms Ms since told us that the initial adviser bombarded her with leading questions and she 
had no opportunity to express her aspirations or future requirements. She said she felt 
bullied and helpless. I appreciate that it's been around a year since the conversation took 
place. But the call recording doesn't support Ms Ms recollection of what happened. In fact 
the adviser clearly asked Ms M how she intended to spend her retirement and what plans 
she had for the funds if she transferred. He also asked her about what income shed need in 
retirement. I think he gave her the opportunity to answer his questions in the manner she 
saw fit. Ms M did say shed like to spend more time going on holidays once retired. But other than that she essentially said she wanted to maintain her current lifestyle while maintaining 
her savings for a rainy day and didnt anticipate any changes to her circumstances. 
Having considered this very carefully I dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that the 
adviser in anyway led Ms M into her answers, bullied her or otherwise acted unreasonably. 
In fact at the end of the call the adviser asked Ms M if she had any thoughts, questions or 
queries. Ms M answered:
I'm happy that I've spoken to yourself and I'm happy with what you said.
So, it seems that at the time of the call Ms M was also happy with its conduct. I dont know 
whats caused her to change her mind since, but it seems likely this was because she 
ultimately didnt receive advice to transfer. But, that doesn't mean the call wasnt conducted 
fairly. And, overall, I'm satisfied that the initial adviser conducted the call reasonably.
For completeness Ms M recently told us that WPS had failed to provide her with a recording 
of the initial advice phone call and other material connected with its service. This wasnt part 
of Ms Ms initial complaint and I don't know if its something WPS has replied to. So its not 
something I've looked into as part of my consideration of Ms Ms original complaint. If Ms M 
has concerns that WPS hasn't shared information with her that she is entitled to, she may 
raise the matter with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). The ICO is responsible 
for regulating compliance with data protection laws.
Was the initial advice suitable for Ms M?
WPS initial advice was that Ms M would be better off continuing to work and retaining 
membership of her DB scheme pension. 
DB pensions are a valuable resource and their benefits are often considered to be difficult to 
match (at a similar cost) from other pension products available on the open market. And, as 
I've said above, the regulators guidance is that the starting point for advising firms like WPS 
is that a transfer will not be suitable for most people. So it should only recommend a transfer 
were there is evidence which clearly demonstrates that it is in a customers best interests.
In this case, based on the information Ms M gave to WPS, both in writing and during the 
initial call, she wouldn't have had enough income to support herself in retirement. At that 
time, the adviser was totally unaware that Mr C and Ms M could support each other 
financially. So, as I've said above, WPS couldnt consider Mr Cs financial position, because 
it didnt know about him. 
Ms M told the adviser that she would need £1,600 net a month in retirement. She had a 
personal pension of £200 a month but otherwise, if shed retired at age 60  as far as the 
adviser was aware  she'd have no other income until she reached state pension age of 67. 
So, before considering the income from her DB pension she had an income shortfall of 
£1,400 a month. 
If Ms M transferred her CETV to a personal pension, she said she would have taken the 
maximum 25% £15,001  as tax free cash (TFC). So, if shed used the TFC to make up 
her income shortfall of £1,400 a month she would have used that within about 11 months. 
She could then have drawn down the remaining amount  which would be taxable  to help 
support her. But that would only last her for around two years. So that would see her deplete 
that fund in its entirety in a little over three years. And she would then (without Government 
support) have no income of her own without dipping into her savings, something she said 
she didnt want to do. Further, after Ms M became entitled to her state pension at age 67, she would also have 
taken funds from another former employers DB scheme. All her pensions together would 
have given her an income of around £980 a month, which  without considering tax  would 
leave her £620 a month short. Ms Ms only solution to meet that shortfall was to sell her 
house. But, if she downsized  bearing in mind the adviser didnt know she had the option of 
sharing with Mr C  the capital from the sale was unlikely to last for her life expectancy.
However, by continuing to work for longer and taking the income from her DB scheme, the 
figures showed that Ms M would still have an income shortfall but would be better off overall 
in retirement. So, from the evidence in front of the initial adviser at that time, he couldnt 
clearly demonstrate that a transfer would be in Ms Ms best interests. And as such he 
recommended she remain in her DB scheme.
As I've said above a DB scheme membership is a valuable resource. The member will 
receive a guaranteed, risk free and increasing pension from when they take it until they die. 
And, those benefits are difficult to match from alternative pensions sources. For example 
WPS obtained a TVC which showed that buying equivalent benefits to the DB scheme on 
the open market could cost Ms M an additional £51,000. That is over 80% more than the 
CETV value. So I think, given the information Ms M gave to WPS at the time, its advice was 
suitable for her. 
Its clear that Ms M and Mr C weren't happy with that outcome. But WPS role wasnt simply 
to do what Ms M wanted it to do. Its role was to discern what Ms Ms wants and needs were 
and why she wanted to transfer her pension. And having done what I believe was an 
appropriate analysis, based on the information in front of it, I think WPS initial advice was 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I'm aware that during the initial process the CETV guarantee expired. But I dont think that 
was because of anything WPS did wrong. It gave its advice, based on the information it had 
within a reasonable timescale. Also it's worth noting that although the CETV figure went 
down, that doesn't mean Ms Ms DB scheme benefits are worth any less, it simply means 
that the market rates used to calculate CETVs had altered. And that is why CETVs are only 
usually guaranteed for three months, because their value changes in line with movements in 
certain financial markets, most notably gilt and interest rates. But, a fall in a CETV figure is 
not the same as a fall in the worth of DB scheme benefits. And Ms M remains a member of 
the DB scheme, so she hasn't lost out in terms of retirement income.
Was it fair for WPS to end the advice process?
WPS reviewed its initial advice. Ms M and Mr C had complained that was flawed because 
they said the adviser hadn't done his job properly. But, WPS review concluded that the 
advice was reasonable based on the information Ms M had given it, rather than because of 
any mistakes in the evidence gathering process. I think that was a reasonable conclusion to 
reach  especially when WPS didnt feel Ms M had fulfilled her side of the client agreement 
as she hadn't disclosed all material information. 
Giving advice on a DB transfer is, generally, a complex and heavily regulated process. It will 
usually involve gathering and analysing a considerable amount of evidence. And advising 
firms like WPS need to have confidence their clients are forthcoming with all the relevant 
information, so that they can make a fully informed analysis in line with the regulatory 
requirements. The process is often slow, with no guarantee that it will end with positive 
advice that the consumer should transfer. And a small change in fact can lead to an entirely 
different recommendation at the end of the process.It's not uncommon for the advice process to take months only for the consumer involved to 
be disappointed by the outcome at its conclusion. But just because a consumer is 
disappointed doesn't mean a firm has done something wrong. WPS did complete the advice 
process once, based on the information Ms M had given it at the time. And it wasnt under 
any obligation to revisit that advice once Ms M, after complaining about its service, told it that 
she hadn't given it all the information it needed during the initial information gathering 
process. In those circumstances, I think WPS was entitled to say that it didnt want to give 
further advice. And I don't think it reached its decision unfairly or unreasonably.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I don't uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman