DRN-3992059
The complaint
Miss Ks complaint is about DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limiteds handling of 
a claim on her residential landlords insurance policy.
What happened
Miss K made a claim on her DAS residential landlords policy for cover to evict a tenant and 
to receive a pay out for arrears of rent. 
Miss K says she was a vulnerable customer and had to make DAS aware of her 
circumstances several times when she made her claim in order for it to be progressed. She 
feels that DAS caused delays during the course of her claim, that there was a lack of clarity 
and communication about the status of it and that they failed to acknowledge 
correspondence and documents she sent in. Miss K feels this compounded the difficult 
financial position she already found herself in, as well as the stress and anxiety she was 
suffering. She also says this caused her financial loss. 
DAS considered Miss Ks complaint and agreed that it should be upheld. They 
acknowledged there were delays on their part and they asked for information that they 
already had in their possession. They also accepted they failed to proactively and 
consistently manage her claim. Because of this they offered Miss K £300 in recognition of 
the distress and inconvenience she suffered and then a further £50 to account for further 
delays in reviewing and responding to correspondence from her. These sums have now 
been paid to her by DAS. Miss K wasnt happy with this so referred her complaint to this 
Service.
Our investigator considered Miss Ks complaint and concluded that the offer DAS made to 
compensate her for their actions was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Miss K 
doesnt agree. She feels this doesnt go far enough to compensate her for their actions, so 
the matter has been referred to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I intend to uphold Miss Ks complaint. Ill explain why. 
DAS have accepted that they didnt deal with Miss Ks claim as they should have. In 
particular, they accept that they asked for information about her claim on a few occasions 
when they already had that information in their possession. 
They also accept they caused unnecessary delays. It took DAS three weeks to instruct their 
panel firm to act for her when they could have done this much sooner. And they didnt return 
a call Miss K made, meaning she had to chase them for this. A further delay of a week 
occurred as a result of DAS failing to identify Miss K had provided them with information 
theyd already requested, which she had to point out to them again. And after they 
responded to her complaint, there was a further delay in reviewing and responding to 
correspondence from Miss K about her claim. 
DAS also accept that the overall quality of service Miss K received could have been better. 
In particular, they accept that they didnt proactively and consistently manage her claim and 
that this could have been better co-ordinated. In addition, they say Miss K could have been 
better informed by them of the current position and next steps.  DAS acknowledge they told 
Miss K being that a rent guarantee payment would be made to her despite a complete and 
satisfactory reference from the tenant not being available at the time. So, all in all I dont 
think DAS actions are in dispute here. What is in dispute however is how that impacted on 
Miss K.
Miss K refers to being vulnerable and says the impact of DAS handling the claim on her was 
considerable. I asked the investigator to find out more about why Miss K says she was 
vulnerable. Miss K said that her claim took place during the Covid-19 pandemic which 
coincided with her being made redundant. With no rental income coming in and no other 
source of income, Miss K said she felt very vulnerable. She was also worried because 
Covid-19 had been reported to affect people from ethnic backgrounds during this period. I 
have no information about whether Miss K became unwell as a result of Covid-19 but if not, 
from what shes told us, this was a source of worry for her. 
I appreciate that the purpose of having this cover in place was for Miss K to be able to utilise 
it in the event her tenant stopped paying rent and she needed to evict them. And I know that 
her experience with DAS wouldve been both stressful and inconvenienced her on more than 
one occasion, particularly in light of her own personal circumstances. But I dont think she 
suffered any financial loss as a result of DAS actions. I say so because she was able to 
successfully claim on the policy for rent arrears. Certainly, I havent been presented with any 
evidence to suggest that the delays caused by DAS prevented Miss K receiving what she 
was entitled to for the period she was claiming for. I appreciate Miss K was even more 
worried about difficulties in progressing her claim given she had no other income coming in 
but thats not something I can hold DAS responsible for. And I know that she feels the claim 
for eviction hasnt progressed as quickly as it should have but as the investigator explained, I 
cant consider anything new that has happened after she brought our complaint to us 
because that would amount to a new complaint that DAS has yet to address.
That being said, I think DAS offer of £350 to compensate Miss K for their conduct falls short 
given her specific circumstances. Because of this I indicated to both parties that I intended to 
increase the award suggested by our investigator to £500 which I think is more in line with 
what wed award in these sorts of circumstances. I say so because I expect DAS actions 
wouldve exacerbated an already stressful set of circumstances Miss K had found herself in, 
which Ive referred to more specifically above. DAS have said that they dont think Miss Ks 
circumstances are something theyre responsible for nor the impact of their conduct on those 
circumstances. They also suggest the timing of the problems Miss K experienced was such 
that Covid-19 and its associated risks were considerably less than they would have been 
during the height of the pandemic. Because of this they dont think this has anything to do 
with their conduct. I dont agree. We do hold businesses responsible for something theyve 
done wrong and when considering compensation, we look at the specific impact this 
wouldve had on a customer in their specific circumstances. It doesnt matter whether DAS 
consider it reasonable for Miss K to feel vulnerable about the Covid-19 pandemic at that time 
nor that they werent responsible for her being made redundant. The point is these were 
factors Miss K has told us were affecting her and made her feel vulnerable. And even if I 
discounted the impact of the pandemic, which was and still is a concern for some people, Im 
persuaded that Miss Ks loss of income alone was a matter that wouldve been very worrying 
for her. So having to face the obstacles she did in pursuing her claim wouldve been 
unnecessarily exacerbated by DASs conduct. And for that I think DAS should fairly compensate her by paying £500.
Miss K has also responded to my suggested award of compensation. She says she felt the 
delays caused by DAS resulted in her losing the equivalent of at least two weeks worth of 
rent from her tenant so she thinks compensation should be equivalent to this. Our 
investigator asked Miss K for further information about this. She referred to the delays that 
DAS acknowledged in their final response letter more generally. The investigator also put 
Miss Ks submissions on this point to DAS directly. DAS said the rent guarantee cover paid 
out close to £10,000 to cover rent arrears that had been incurred, even when the tenant had 
vacated the property. They say there was no financial detriment caused to Miss K in respect 
of loss of rents as a result of their delays.
Ive considered what both parties said and looked back on everything theyve provided. As I 
said above Im satisfied theres no evidence of DASs delays impacting on the rent arrears 
claim Miss K made or the amount that was paid out to her in respect of this. In addition, Ive 
seen nothing persuasive that supports she suffered a financial loss as a result of DAS 
actions. Because of this I remain of the view that the compensation Ive suggested of £500 in 
total remains appropriate. 
Finally, I know that Miss K was concerned that DAS had failed to address her queries about 
accommodation and costs. As the investigator said, DAS asked her to resend her email to 
them about this so that they can respond accordingly. 
Putting things right
DAS should pay Miss K a further £150, representing a total of £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her by its handling of her claim. In reaching this conclusion, Ive 
taken into account theyve already paid her £350 in compensation. If for whatever reason 
Miss K hasnt received this, she should contact DAS directly. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ks complaint against DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited and 
direct them to put things right in the way I have directed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman