DRN:DRN-1000708
the complaint
Mr W is complaining about the value Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) has put 
on his car after he claimed on his car insurance policy.
what happened
Mr W's wife was involved in a car accident, so Mr W claimed on his car insurance policy for 
the damage caused to his car. Due to the extent of the damage, Admiral declared the car a 
total loss and it said it would settle the claim by paying him the car's market value, less his 
excess. And it valued his car at £37,010. 
Mr W didn't think Admiral's valuation of his car was fair as he says that it doesn't cover the 
amount he owes on the finance. And he also says it isn't enough for him to replace the car 
with another one of the same age, make, model and mileage. 
Admiral said that it had valued Mr W's car by reviewing the three main trade valuation guides 
which it said are recognised by the motor industry as providing a fair market value for the 
majority of cars available in the UK. It said they gave three separate figures and it said it 
offered him the highest valuation. It said that looking at adverts can give some idea of what 
the market value of cars are. But it said it also needs to be remembered that they only reflect 
the sellers asking price and not the actual sales price. It said it had looked at the adverts 
available online, but it said that these aren't reliable given the varying specifications for 
Mr W's type of car.  
i issued a provisional decision in March 2019 upholding this complaint and I said the 
following:
"This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We 
look at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and valued the vehicle 
fairly. Under the terms of Mr Ws policy, Admiral has to pay him the market value of the car, 
less his excess.
The market value is defined as the cost of replacing your car, with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage and condition based on market prices at the time of the loss.
Admiral has valued Mr Ws car at £37,010. Its said its valued this by reviewing the main 
industry trade valuation guides. Mr W doesnt think this valuation is fair because he can't 
replace it for the amount Admiral is offering.
I've reviewed this case and, while Admiral has initially appeared to have followed this 
service's usual approach, it hasn't taken into account the fact that the trade guide providers 
consider Mr W's make and model of car to be a commercial vehicle. So the valuation figures 
they've provided are exclusive of VAT. This means that the guide values are 20% lower than 
the amount Mr W would have to pay to replace the car. So I think the valuation is unfair.
Including VAT I think the guides give a valuation range of between £40,200 and £45,100. 
Taking all this into account, I'm inclined to say that a fairer valuation is £43,000. So I think 
Admiral should pay him this to settle the claim. I'm conscious that Mr W was paying for the car on finance, so Admiral was required to pay 
the majority of the settlement to the finance provider. But Mr W has had to pay the 
outstanding balance on the finance, which he shouldn't have had to do so. So he's out of 
pocket and I think it should pay 8% simple interest on the difference between the 
outstanding finance and £43,000 from the date of loss until date of settlement. I think it 
should also pay him £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter 
has caused him."
Admiral didn't accept my provisional decision. It said that, as it was a private car insurance 
policy, it hasn't made any deductions for VAT. And it said that there's nothing on the trade 
guide valuations to say that they didn't include VAT.
Mr W responded to accept my provisional decision.
what Ive decided  and why
Ive re considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've taken Admiral's additional comments into account, but I've come to the same conclusion 
as I did in my provisional decision. Admiral has said that there's nothing to show that the 
trade guides don't include VAT. But, as I said in my provisional decision, the trade guide 
providers consider Mr W's car to be a commercial vehicle. And it's usual for the trade guide 
providers to not include VAT when valuing commercial vehicles. I've also separately 
confirmed that the values provided are exclusively of VAT. So I'm satisfied that the 
valuations provided by the trade guides are 20% less than what Mr W would have to pay to 
replace the car
Further to this, I don't think Mr W could replace his car with another car of similar, make, 
model, age and mileage. And I think this further supports the fact that the values given are 
exclusive of VAT.
putting things right
As I set out in my provisional decision, including VAT I think the guides give a valuation 
range of between £40,200 and £45,100 Taking all this into account, I think a fairer valuation 
is £43,000. So I think Admiral should pay him this to settle the claim.
As Mr W was paying for the car on finance, Admiral was required to pay the majority of the 
settlement to the finance provider. But Mr W has had to pay the outstanding balance on the 
finance, which he shouldn't have had to do so. So I still think he's out of pocket and I think it 
should pay 8% simple interest on the difference between the outstanding finance and 
£43,000 from the date of loss until date of settlement. I think it should also pay him £250 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him.
my final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. And I require Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited to:
1. Increase its valuation to £43,000 and pay the difference to Mr W directly; 
2. pay 8% simple interest on the difference between the outstanding finance and 
£43,000 from the date of loss until date of settlement; and
3. pay Mr W £250 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused him. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman