DRN-4023925
The complaint
Mr K complains that IG Index Limited gave him incorrect information on their trading 
analytics tool which caused him to suffer a financial loss.
What happened
Mr K held a Contracts for Difference (CFD) and spreadbetting trading account with IG Index 
Limited (IG). He says he used IGs trading analytics tool to provide him information on his 
profit and loss accounts, but it displayed incorrect data, showing his account to be in a larger 
profit than it was. On 8 October 2020, it showed a profit of around £8638 instead of £8584 - 
based on his own calculations. The data between 7 and 8 October 2020 showed a profit of 
£1230 instead of £1086. He says he relied on this information to make the trading decisions 
which followed and made losses of around £40,000. 
He says IG regularly present incorrect data but says he did not become aware of these 
issues until he made IG were aware of the discrepancy with the analytics tool. He holds IG 
responsible for his losses and to resolve the complaint, he would like the losses hes 
incurred between 7 October 2020 to 2 November 2020 to be reimbursed.
IG issued final response in January 2021 saying they accepted the information on the 
analytics tool was incorrect, but the tool was in its Beta stage which is understood to mean 
their development stage. They say they notified all their customers of this, and that Mr K 
should have compared the data with other sources available to him as the analytics tool was 
an indication only.  They say they are not responsible for any losses hes incurred as they 
are a result of the trading decisions, hes taken on his execution only account. They didnt 
uphold his complaint.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mr K brought his complaint to this service. The investigator here 
didnt uphold his complaint. She was satisfied that IG made clear to him in the terms and 
conditions that they would not be held responsible for any inaccurate or incomplete 
information in the account data.
Mr K didnt accept the investigators view, so this has come to me for a decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 28 February 2023 explaining why I was intending to uphold 
this complaint. I include this below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I think its important first to outline what my role as an Ombudsman is. It is to impartially 
investigate the specific complaint brought against IG to reach a fair and reasonable 
conclusion based on the evidence provided. I am not looking to punish a business where 
there has been any wrongdoing or to tell a business how to operate. Any concerns about the 
way a business operates should be taken to the Financial Conduct Authority, which 
regulates the UKs financial industry. 
In their final response, IG accepted there was a problem with their profit and loss analytics 
not updating to the latest information. Ive considered what this has meant for Mr K and the 
impact this has had on him.
From the first call Mr K made to complain to IG, he has been clear. He based his risk 
assessment on the information he saw on the profit and loss analytics at that time and made 
his trading decisions accordingly. He says he has lost money as a result of this as he would 
not have traded if the true profit and losses on his account were known.
I understand IGs position that the losses Mr K incurred were a result of the trading decisions 
he made on his execution only accounts and so the losses were a result of those decisions, 
but I am not satisfied that this takes all matters into consideration. I dont think its 
reasonable to make the assumption that all their customers would know what Beta meant. 
Even so, this doesnt mean they should expect customers to cross check the information 
they were being given particularly when they hadnt been told to do so. In fact, I would 
suggest he had been told the opposite with the reminder emails encouraging him to use the 
tool  and no suggestion of cross checking the information or that the information may not be 
entirely reliable. 
One particular email says:-
"Remember you can also see your key trading stats, including win rate, profit and 
loss ratio, and return rate in the trade analytics tool. Find it on the left-hand menu of 
the 'live accounts' tab in My IG. Log in here:..."
There was no warning for consumers to inform them of the risk of relying on this information 
or telling them to cross check using other sources of information available to them. This 
email doesnt even mention that it is in Beta stage as IG have said. On balance, I am 
persuaded by what the consumer says, that this trade analytics tool was promoted by IG in 
communications and never came with any warnings.
I take on board IGs point that he could have verified the information he was given on the 
profit and loss history of his account to give him an accurate figure. But as Ive explained 
above, he wasnt told he needed to do this or given any suggestion the information wasnt 
accurate. IG have promoted this as a tool that will aid them in their decision making by giving 
them insight into their trades and their profit and losses. So, I would expect them to ensure 
the accuracy of the information they are presenting or alternatively notify consumers of the 
potential issues that they may encounter so they are not solely dependent on this source of 
information. Unfortunately, IG didnt to do this despite the discrepancy that showed in the 
account and Mr K relied on the information that was given to him as accurate. Under the 
circumstances, I think it was reasonable for him to do so.
Putting things right
When putting things right, my aim is to put Mr K back in the position he would have been had 
IG not made any errors, so I need to establish what he would have done if the error hadnt 
happened. It is difficult to say exactly what this would be, but Im not persuaded by his 
account that he wouldnt have traded if he had known the true position of his accounts. I say 
this because, Ive looked at the discrepancy in the analytics tool and how much this amounted to. The tool showed profits of £8638 instead of £8584 (based on Mr Ks own 
calculations), a difference of £54, and £1230 instead of £1086 (based on Mr Ks own 
calculations), a difference of £144 - a combined total discrepancy of £198. 
Although the discrepancy with the profit and loss information on the analytics tool is 
accepted, it is not in such significant amounts that I feel would have prevented him from 
trading altogether. I am satisfied that he did intend to trade with the funds he had, albeit, with 
the correct funds available, but Im not persuaded that the £198 discrepancy on IGs part 
against a combined profit of £9670 warrants the refund of all his losses.
Ive noted he says he became aware of the issue when he analysed the data at the end of 
October 2020, so I would expect he would take action to mitigate his losses and take 
appropriate action at this point. He also had access to account statements which would have 
showed him the true state of his accounts and he would have known the information wasnt 
in real time. The fact that he later relied on calculating the profit and loss of the account 
himself, demonstrates a greater understanding of the position his accounts were in, so Im 
not persuaded his entire trading during this period was based on the analytics tool. The tool 
didnt give him any advice on what positions he should trade in, it just told him the profit and 
loss in his account. 
Whilst I fully sympathise with Mr K particularly as hes suffered significant losses, ultimately, 
his losses were largely resulting from the trading decisions he made on an account which 
was execution only and not because of the information on the analytics tool.
That said, the incorrect information on the analytics tool meant Mr K believed there was 
more funds available than there actually was. I cant say with any certainty whether this 
meant he placed more trades than he would otherwise have done, but it did give Mr K the 
opportunity to lose more money in addition to the losses he was making from his own trading 
decisions. 
Despite this, I think it would be unreasonable to ask IG to refund all of Mr Ks losses and it is 
difficult to say which positions, if any, were impacted by the discrepancy. What I think is clear 
is that IGs communications in relation to the analytics tool should have been clear in saying 
investors needed to cross check the data and not solely rely on this one source. 
IG have now written to us and accepted Mr K didnt receive their communications about this 
tool because his account was set not to receive promotional communications. In recognition 
of this and the inconvenience caused by the discrepancy in the analytics tool, they have 
offered Mr K £300 compensation. 
Ive thought carefully about the level of compensation I would consider fair in this situation. I 
can see the considerable impact it has had on Mr K and I am aware of the additional stress 
and health concerns hes faced. I do feel IGs handling of the situation has added to this, 
particularly as its taken them more than two years to make an offer to him. I believe they 
have prolonged the level of distress and inconvenience this has caused him, as such, IG 
should pay Mr K £400.
 
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above, I intend to uphold this complaint against IG Index Limited. I 
intend to direct them to pay Mr K £400 for the distress and inconvenience theyve caused 
him.
Responses to my provisional decision IG responded to accept my provisional decision.
Mr K didnt accept my provisional decision and responded to say,  I maintain that the error 
with the trade analytics, admitted by IG in writing, constitutes a fundamental breach of 
contract because providing such information is at the core of the contract despite the non-
advised nature of the contract. The transactions that followed the error should be annulled 
(losses reversed). The amount of IGs error is immaterial to this and does not bear relevant 
to the size of the transactions that followed. There are too many factors at play in the 
decision making for there to be a proportional relationship. Any additional compensation is a 
separate issue  in that regards I would accept the suggested £400.
Putting things right
Ive considered the information Mr K has provided but dont think there is any new 
information that would persuade me to change my mind. As such, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional findings and make the same findings here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint against IG 
Index Limited. They should pay Mr K £400 as noted above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman