DRN-2727012
The complaint
Mr H complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has failed to compensate 
him fairly for delays it caused in the transfer of his pension savings to another provider.
What happened
Mr H held pension savings with Prudential. I understand that he had been discussing the 
transfer of those pensions savings for much of 2019. But the complaint Mr H has made 
relates to what happened after a letter of authority was sent to Prudential in October 2019.
Mr H asked Prudential to send information to his financial advisor about transferring his 
pension savings from Prudential to a new provider. Prudential has accepted that it failed to 
provide that information in a timely manner. It says that the transfer should have completed 
by 30 December 2019, but in fact the funds werent sent until 15 May 2020.
Prudential has paid some compensation to Mr H. In total it has paid him £450 to reflect the 
poor service he received, both in terms of the original transfer, and in calculating whether 
any compensation should be paid for loss of investment returns. But Prudentials later 
calculations didnt ultimately suggest that Mr H had lost out due to the delays in his pension 
savings being transferred.
Mr H was unhappy with the compensation that Prudential had paid so he brought his 
complaint to this Service. The complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators who 
thought that Prudential needed to do more. He noted that Mr H had been prevented by the 
delay from taking his pension commencement lump sum (PCLS - also known as tax free 
cash) for almost six months. So he asked Prudential to compensate Mr H for the loss of the 
use of those funds over that time.
Prudential didnt agree with our investigators assessment. It thought that any compensation 
that would be due for the loss of use of the funds was more than offset by the increase in 
value of Mr Hs pension savings. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has 
been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If Mr H 
accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by Prudential. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to 
help me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. 
There seems to be little dispute that Prudential failed to deal with Mr Hs request to transfer 
his pension savings in a timely manner. I have considered the delay that Prudential thinks it 
caused and find its assessment reasonable. Although Mr H first provided a letter of authority 
to Prudential in October 2019 there would have been a period of time following that for the 
required paperwork to be issued to him, for it to be completed and returned to Prudential, 
and for the funds to be transferred to the new provider. Based on the time it took for that to 
be completed when the transfer did go ahead, I think basing an assessment of the delay on 
a date of 30 December 2019 is reasonable.
There are two aspects that I should reasonably consider when looking at that delay. After the 
funds had been transferred to the new provider in May 2020 Mr H took his PCLS. So he 
would have been without the use of those funds for almost six months. I understand that 
Mr Hs pension savings were held in cash with Prudential during the time of the delay in 
anticipation of the transfer. So he might also have lost out on some investment returns on 
the remainder of this pension savings during the delay.
Where a consumer has been deprived of the use of funds, I would normally direct a business 
to pay simple interest for that period at a rate of 8% per annum. I havent seen anything that 
makes me think that shouldnt be my approach here. So I will be directing Prudential to pay 
that interest to Mr H.
The calculations performed by Mr Hs new provider show that in fact he is better off because 
of the delay in transferring his remaining pension savings. As I said earlier, the monies were 
held in cash by Prudential. And during the period of the delay there was a large fall in the 
global stock markets due to the onset of the coronavirus pandemic. So Im not surprised 
that, since Mr Hs pension savings were not invested at that time, he was largely insulated 
from those market falls. So I dont think there is any further compensation that Prudential 
needs to pay to Mr H in respect of the investment returns he might have achieved over the 
time of the delay.
Prudential has said that I should consider offsetting the interest I am awarding for the loss of 
use of the PCLS funds against the notional investment gains that Mr H has made. But I dont 
agree. I think the matters should be considered entirely separately. During the period of the 
delay Prudential had the use of Mr Hs pension savings  since they were held in cash. So 
Mr H should rightly be compensated for that. The notional gains that Mr H has made on the 
remainder of his pension savings have not come at any cost to Prudential  so since 
Prudential is not paying those gains, I dont think it should benefit from them.
It is clear that Prudentials levels of service to Mr H fell well short of what he should expect. 
And I can see that this has caused him trouble and upset, both in the time he spent chasing 
the transfer, and in the delays he experienced in putting his retirement plans into action. 
I have thought carefully about what might be an appropriate level of compensation for that 
trouble and upset. But having done so I have concluded that the payments Prudential has 
already made  totalling £450  are a fair reflection of what might be considered reasonable. 
Putting things right
I dont think that Mr H has suffered any investment losses as a result of the delays to his 
transfer. And I think the compensation that Prudential has paid to Mr H for the trouble and 
upset hes been caused is reasonable.But Prudential needs to pay compensation to Mr H for the loss of use of his PCLS funds 
during the period of the delay. So Prudential should pay Mr H simple interest at a rate of 8% 
per annum on the amount of Mr Hs PCLS (£17,4773.43) from the date the transfer should 
have completed (30 December 2019) to the date the transfer was made (15 May 2020). 
HM Revenue & Customs requires Prudential to take off tax from this interest. Prudential 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Hs complaint and direct The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited to put things right as detailed above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman