DRN-2512239
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about the difficulties they encountered with Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax when they tried to draw down on their Home Cash Reserve. Although 
Halifax has paid compensation, they believe that the amount offered is inadequate for the 
trouble and upset that they have suffered.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R had a mortgage with Halifax which had a Home Cash Reserve facility which 
allowed them access to money. They still had a balance of £9,305 remaining and tried to 
access it to borrow £2,500 in November 2019. Mr and Mrs R say the Halifax staff asked for 
invoices in advance which werent required and then they had lengthy arguments with 
Halifax staff until an employee from mortgage servicing assisted them. They were promised 
a letter which didnt arrive and told they had to go to a Halifax branch to get a direct debit 
verified. This meant that the money wasnt paid on the due date and they had invoices to 
pay. 
Halifax agrees that it received a request to release this money on 29 November and told Mr 
and Mrs R that it would be actioned within 5-7 working days. This didnt happen and Halifax 
says it wrote to Mr and Mrs R on 3 December 2019 requesting invoices for the work being 
done on Mr and Mrs Rs property. Halifax accepts that Mr and Mrs R didnt receive this letter 
but says they were told this verbally on 11 December when Mr and Mrs R contacted them 
about the non-receipt of the money requested. On 12 December Halifax says that it then 
became aware that the invoices werent required and that it could release the money 
following a verbal instruction. But Halifax then required verification of the account where the 
money was going as Mr and Mrs R werent paying their mortgage by direct debit and Halifax 
didnt have their bank account details. Mr and Mrs R didnt provide these details but 
redeemed the mortgage on 17 December 2019.  Halifax accepted that the staff Mr and Mrs 
R were dealing with were unfamiliar with the Home Cash Reserve facility and paid Mr and 
Mrs R compensation of £300 by letter of 4 February 2020.
Mr and Mrs R were dissatisfied with this response and wrote to Halifax on 10 February, 20 
April and again on 4 June 2020. Halifax replied on 19 June 2020. Whilst it didnt agree to 
increase the original compensation, it accepted that its failure to respond to the 
correspondence was discourteous and poor service and paid Mr and Mrs R further 
compensation of £300. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be 
upheld as his view was that the compensation offered was appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R were customers with Halifax for 39 Years and had a mortgage product - a 
Home Cash Reserve - which clearly the Halifax staff they dealt with were unfamiliar. I 
understand that this may be because this product is no longer available and Halifaxs 
processes to draw down money against a mortgage may have changed since 2004 when Mr 
and Mrs R took out this product. In any case that isnt an excuse for Halifax not to have 
provided the level of service that Mr and Mrs R should have expected. It appears that it took 
between 29 November until 12 December for Halifax to confirm that it would release the 
money and then asked Mr and Mrs R to go through a process to verify their account. It 
appears at that stage Mr and Mrs R believed that Halifax wouldnt pay them the money and 
secured money from their own resources. Mr and Mrs R say that previously they had spent 
several hours arguing with staff unfamiliar with the process until they got assistance from a 
member of staff who was familiar with it.
I believe that its reasonable for Mr and Mrs R to be compensated for the frustration and 
upset in having to put their case to Halifax staff unfamiliar with the product until they were 
able to speak to someone who could assist them. I thank Mr and Mrs R for their assistance 
in setting out how this matter has impacted them.  Mr and Mrs R are familiar with our 
guidelines on compensation. I have to recognise that despite their reasonable annoyance at 
the poor service they received from Halifax, they found an employee that recognised their 
difficulties and helped them resolve the situation. And despite the problems caused by 
Halifaxs staffs unfamiliarity with the procedures, this had been resolved in mid-December 
and the money promised them. I appreciate their concerns about losing the assistance of 
their builder, but the money seems to have been made available by Halifax, should Mr and 
Mrs R have chosen to draw it down in time for the builder to be paid. 
I also dont consider that it was unwarranted of Halifax to follow its process to verify their 
bank account details. I recognise that this was onerous for Mr and Mrs R, but Halifax has 
explained that it didnt have Mr and Mrs Rs bank account details as they paid by standing 
order rather than direct debit. I feel Mr and Mrs R will appreciate that in these times a 
verification process of bank details is necessary.  In response Mr and Mrs Rs decided not to 
actually draw down the money but to close the account. As Halifax at that stage had agreed 
to pay out the money, subject to verification, I dont accept that Mr and Mrs R should be 
compensated for the loss of access to the facility nor for their decision to access alternative 
funds. 
So, I agree with Halifax and our investigator that the payment of £300 is reasonable 
compensation for their trouble and upset.  I also recognise the frustration experienced by Mr 
and Mrs R whilst they awaited a response to their comments on how Halifax dealt with the 
complaint.  I agree that they should be compensated for that. But I accept that Halifax 
recognised its error, apologised and eventually responded to them. So, again, I agree that 
the payment of £300 seems fair. Although I recognise the distress that Mr and Mrs R have 
suffered, as Halifax has already recognised it and paid fair compensation, I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman