DRN-3231379
The complaint
Mr H is complaining that a car Moneybarn No. 1 Limited supplied him under a conditional 
sale agreement was of unsatisfactory quality and was misrepresented to him.
What happened
In July 2020 Mr H entered into a conditional sale agreement provided by Moneybarn to 
acquire a car. The car had a cash price of around £12,500, it was around five years old and 
had travelled around 35,000 miles.
In August 2020 Mr H complained about the following issues with the car:
Air conditioning wasnt working properly
Service light was on, suggesting the car hadnt been serviced
Cigarette lighter fuse had blown
Windscreen washer was blocked
The boot didnt close properly
The tyres on the car werent approved BMW tyres
The car was advertised to come with satnav, but it didnt have it
The supplying dealership fixed a number of the faults. It also offered to fit an aftermarket 
satnav to the car. The dealership provided Mr H with a courtesy car during this time, but 
Mr H said he had to insure it. The car was later returned to Mr H but he said the issues with 
the boot and screen washer remained. And he said he wanted to reject the car. Moneybarn 
and the dealership said these were minor issues so didnt think Mr H was entitled to reject 
the car. 
In July 2021, Mr Hs car failed the MOT because of the issue with the windscreen washer. 
Mr H says he stopped using the car after that because he didnt think it was safe to use. He 
also stopped paying the monthly payments on the finance agreement.
Our investigator upheld this complaint as he didnt think a reasonable person would expect 
to see the faults on the car so soon after acquisition. So he thought the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. And he thought Moneybarn should do the following to put things right:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay and remove any adverse information from 
Mr Hs credit file;
collect the car at no further cost to Mr H;
refund the £42.61 Mr H paid to insure the courtesy car; and
pay 8% simple yearly interest on all refunded amounts from the date of payment until the 
date of settlement; 
pay a further amount of £100 for any trouble and upset thats been caused due to the 
faulty goods.
Moneybarn didnt respond to the investigators opinion so the complaints been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
Mr H acquired the car under a conditional sale agreement. Legislation  in this case the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  implied a term into the agreement that the car must be 
of satisfactory quality. As the supplier and finance provider, Moneybarn is responsible for the 
quality of the car its provided under the agreement. Theres no dispute that there are faults 
with the car, but the issue is whether the faults makes the car of unsatisfactory quality when 
it was supplied.
In deciding whether this car was of satisfactory quality, I take into account the relevant 
circumstances, such as the cash price, its mileage and age. In this case, Mr H paid around 
£12,500 for the car. It was around five years old and had travelled around 35,000 miles at 
the point of supply. 
I think the key issue here is whether those problems were likely to have been present or 
developing at the time of sale, as opposed to natural and inevitable wear and tear in a used 
car. Ive also considered whether a reasonable person would expect there to be problems 
such as Mr H has experienced in a car of this price, age and mileage  in short is the car 
sufficiently durable.
I note Moneybarn thinks the faults are minor and arose due to wear and tear. It does need to 
be considered that Mr H didnt acquire a new car and, given its age and mileage, he did 
need to expect some wear and tear. But this should also be considered against the fact he 
paid around £12,500 for the car. 
Given how soon Mr H raised these issues after he acquired the car, I think the faults were 
present  or at least developing  at the point of supply. I dont disagree that some of the 
faults in isolation wouldnt necessarily render the car of unsatisfactory quality. But it seems to 
be accepted that the car had at least four faults  the air conditioning, cigarette lighter, 
screen washer and the boot. I dont think a reasonable person would expect to see all of 
these faults given the price Mr H paid for the car. 
I also think not being able to properly close the boot and being able to clean the windscreen 
are arguably safety issues with the car and its important to note the car failed its MOT in 
July 2021 because of the issues with the screen washer. The CRA sets out that goods wont 
be of satisfactory quality if they are unsafe when supplied.
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. The issue now for me to think about is whether this means Mr H can reject 
the car. I note Moneybarn has said the CRA only allows a rejection if the faults prevent the 
car from doing its job properly. And its said minor faults that can be easily repaired are not 
enough to trigger your right to reject the vehicle. But I dont agree.The CRA doesnt distinguish between minor and major faults in this respect  this is a 
consideration around whether goods are of satisfactory quality or not. But, in regards to the 
circumstances of this complaint, Mr H only has remedies available under the CRA where he 
can show the car was of unsatisfactory quality. Ive already set out that I think the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality. Under the CRA, Mr H had the right to ask Moneybarn to fix the car but 
if that repair was unsuccessful, he has the right to reject it.
Mr H returned the car to the supplying dealership to carry out repairs, but only some of the 
repairs were done. So I dont think the car was successfully repaired. I think the CRA sets 
out that Mr H can now reject the car and I also think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive set out above, Moneybarn should now allow Mr H to reject the car. I 
think Mr H had full usage of the car up to July 2021 after which I understand he stopped 
using it. So I think its fair he pays for the car up to this point. And I think the monthly 
payments he made during this time is a fair contribution to reflect the usage he had for the 
car. However, I understand he didnt use the car after this point, which I dont think was 
unreasonable given the car had failed an MOT. So I dont think he should have to pay 
anything further towards the finance after this point. However, Mr H also stopped paying the 
monthly finance at this point. So I think the fair and reasonable thing is that Moneybarn 
waives any arrears on the finance.
I also think this matter has caused Mr H some distress and inconvenience. Hes had to drive 
a car with continuing issues which I dont doubt would have been very frustrating. Hes also 
had to contact Moneybarn numerous times to try and resolve this complaint without success. 
I note the investigator awarded £100 in compensation, but I think £200 is a fairer reflection of 
the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
Finally, I note Mr H had to pay an additional £42.61 to insure a courtesy car the supplying 
dealership gave him. I dont think he would have incurred this cost had the car not been of 
unsatisfactory quality, so I think Moneybarn should refund this cost.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to do the following:
1. Allow Mr H to reject the car and arrange to collect it at no cost to him;
2. Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay and arrange for any adverse markers 
to be removed from Mr Hs credit file;
3. Refund the £42.61 Mr H paid to insure the courtesy car. It should add 8% simple interest 
per year on this from when Mr H paid them until he gets them back. If Moneybarn thinks 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from this interest, it 
should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate; and
4. Pay £200 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused 
Mr H.
Moneybarn should process this within 28 days of Mr H accepting my decision.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman