DRN-1347198
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt properly deal with her 
chargeback claim.
What happened
Mrs Ds son is an additional cardholder on her account. On 10 January 2019 he was 
persuaded to buy a bespoke tailored suit and authorised a charge of £196.83 to the credit 
card. After reading reviews online he thought that the transaction was a scam and he didnt 
feel safe to return to collect the clothes. Mrs D contacted the bank on the day of the 
transaction after her son explained what had happened and a chargeback claim was later 
started.
Mrs D was told on 21 February 2019 via an email that a temporary credit for the amount 
would be applied to her account. Mrs D was told in the email that if the merchants bank did 
not reply then the credit would be permanent after 45 days. Mrs D was also told that any 
information that was sent by the merchant bank would be forwarded to her for review.
On the 17 April 2019 Mrs D was informed that the bank could not assist further with the 
disputed transaction as it had received information from the merchants bank confirming that 
the transaction was chip and pin and the terms and conditions were signed by the 
cardholder which set out that there were no refunds. Mrs D was told that the temporary 
credit would be reversed from her account.
Mrs D complained that she had not been sent the information from the merchants bank for 
review as indicated and that the 45 days had elapsed so the credit should now be 
permanent.
In its final response letter Halifax agreed that the email of 21 February could have been 
clearer, and it paid Mrs D £40 in recognition of this. It arranged to send Mrs D copies of the 
information received from the merchants bank. Mrs D says this contains inaccuracies and 
she should have had the opportunity to comment on it. She was unhappy with the banks 
handling of the matter and complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think that Halifax had done anything 
wrong. The investigator thought that Halifax did enough to help Mrs D with the chargeback 
claim. The investigator explained that the chargeback scheme doesnt give consumers legal 
rights and it isnt guaranteed to result in a refund and so this service wasnt in a position to 
interfere with the outcome of the chargeback process. Our investigator also looked at 
whether a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act should have been pursued as 
an alternative because Mrs Ds son didnt get the goods he had paid for with the card. The 
investigator concluded that because Mrs Ds son was an additional cardholder, the debtor 
creditor relationship between Mrs D and the merchant was broken and therefore the claim 
would not have been successful.    
Mrs D didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and set out her reasons. In summary 
she explained that Halifax should have declined the transaction in the first place, or at least 
taken steps to check it was genuine. She said that the secure communication system 
caused her difficulty when accessing information and trying to deal with the complaint. 
Further, the bank didnt follow its own processes regarding sending her information from the 
merchants bank and the reversal of the temporary credit after the deadline of 45 days. Mrs 
D asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to express my sympathy for Mrs D and her son and I am sure that the whole 
scenario was upsetting for them both. I am limited in my role and I can only look at whether 
Halifax has treated Mrs D fairly in the steps it has taken to assist. I cant force the merchant 
to give the money back. 
Mrs D has said that the purchase should not have been allowed to go through. It seems that 
two earlier attempts were made but these were refused on the basis that it would have taken 
the account over the limit. The third payment request for a smaller amount was authorised. I 
understand Mrs Ds concern but I cant say that Halifax did anything wrong here. The card 
was used by the cardholder and his pin was entered correctly. Although the transaction was 
in a foreign country there was nothing to suggest that the transaction wasnt genuine. Even if 
Halifax had asked Mrs D to confirm with her son that the transaction was genuine at the 
point of sale it is likely that he would have agreed as he only became aware of issues after 
he had left the shop. For these reasons I cant say Halifax did anything wrong here.
In relation to the chargeback claim Mrs D is unhappy that it took so long. She contacted the 
bank the same day but it appears the process wasnt started until the 21 February 2019. I 
dont think the delay made a difference to the success of the claim for reasons that I will 
explain below so I cant say that this caused Mrs D any difficulty in dealing with matters. I 
accept that she was worried about her son but I dont think that this would have been 
different if Halifax had acted sooner.
Halifax started the chargeback process and received information from the merchant which 
robustly defended the claim. Information was provided which showed Mrs Ds son had 
signed the terms and conditions and acknowledged there were no refunds and the card had 
been used with a chip and pin. In these circumstances Halifax took the view that it could not 
assist further. As I explained at the outset, I cant interfere with the outcome of the 
chargeback claim but I do think that based on the information it received Halifax dealt with 
the chargeback claim properly. I also agree with the investigator that a Section 75 claim 
would not have succeeded because the contractual relationship was not between Mrs D and 
the merchant as the transaction was entered into with her son. 
Mrs D has said that she wasnt given an opportunity to comment on the information received 
by the merchant as Halifax said she would be in the email of 21 February 2019. I agree that 
this is a shortcoming. But even if Mrs D had been given an opportunity to comment I dont 
think it would have made a difference to the outcome. Mrs Ds account of what happened is 
different to the merchants but the paperwork provided by the merchant was enough to 
defend the claim so I dont think that Mrs D would have been able to provide any more 
evidence or paperwork that would have affected the outcome if she had seen the response 
earlier.
In relation to the temporary credit, I can appreciate why Mrs D thought that after 45 days it 
would become permanent. The email of 21 February 2019 stated that if Halifax didnt hear 
from the merchants bank within 45 days the credit would be permanent. It seems that the merchants bank did respond within the timeframe but Mrs D wasnt told about the response 
or given the information. I cant say that Halifax did anything wrong by reversing the 
temporary credit but I do consider the information in the email was slightly misleading and 
Halifax didnt do what it said it would by providing the information. I can see that Halifax paid 
£40 in recognition of this and I think that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances so I 
cant ask it to do any more.
Mrs D has said that the banks processes in requiring information to be sent via a secure 
channel has led to information being deleted and difficulty in accessing information. I do 
understand how frustrating this must have been for Mrs D but I cant comment on the 
systems that the bank uses to keep data safe or ask it to compensate Mrs D for this.
I am sorry for Mrs D and her sons upset but I cant ask Halifax to do any more.         
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman