DRN-2442963
The complaint
Mrs J complains Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has mishandled her 
motor insurance claim. 
Mrs J is being assisted by her husband Mr J in bringing this complaint to us.
What happened
In October 2018, Mrs J was involved in an accident while parked outside her childrens 
school. As she was putting her children in the car, a passing car collided with the open door. 
LV paid for repairs to Mrs Js car. She subsequently learnt it had also paid for damages 
claimed by the third party. LV said it had made the payment on a without prejudice basis 
and intended to recover costs from the third-party insurer. But after seeking legal opinion, it 
concluded Mrs J would have less than 50% prospect of success if the matter went to court. 
So, LV decided not to pursue recovery and recorded this as a fault claim on Mrs Js policy.
Mrs J complained to LV as she thought there was enough evidence to hold the third party 
responsible for the accident  there were witnesses and a police report. She said LV had 
failed to properly investigate the matter and didnt provide all the information to the solicitor 
when seeking legal opinion.
Our investigator concluded LV was entitled to settle the claim as per the terms of the policy 
and decisions on liability were not a matter for this office. She was satisfied its decision to 
not dispute liability wasnt unreasonable given the available information and the legal 
opinion.
Mrs J has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. She remains unhappy with 
the decision to hold her responsible for the accident. She states LV didnt provide all the 
information to the solicitor, so the legal advice is flawed. Mrs J also says the police think the 
third party was driving carelessly, but the case for prosecution isnt strong as LV has settled 
the third-party damages. She says it has refused to confirm to the police and the prosecution 
authority the payment was made on a without prejudice basis, and this has ruined any 
prospects of criminal proceedings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs J feels very strongly about the complaint. Although Ive only summarised 
the background and arguments above, so not everything that happened is detailed, Id like to 
reassure her, Mr J and LV that Ive read and considered everything in its entirety. 
Mrs J is unhappy LV has decided to hold her liable for the accident. As explained by the 
investigator, it isnt my role to determine who was liable for the accident at the heart of this 
dispute; that would be a matter for a court of law. What Im deciding is whether LV has acted 
in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy and whether it has dealt with the 
claim fairly.
The starting point is the agreement between Mrs J and LV  the policy terms and conditions. 
These include a provision which entitles LV to take over and deal with a claim, including 
agreeing settlement of it. Similar provisions are found in all motor policies Ive seen, and I 
dont find the terms unusual or surprising.
Under the terms of the policy, LV can decide whether to defend a claim or settle it. That 
means it might make a decision the policyholder disagrees with, as has happened here. But 
the terms and conditions of the policy allow LV to make such a decision. It doesnt need the 
policyholders consent in order to do so, but any such decision must still be reasonable in the 
circumstances of the claim.
I know Mrs J feels strongly she isnt at fault for the accident. But both parties have said the 
other was at fault. Ultimately LV made a commercial decision not to issue recovery 
proceedings. Ordinarily, when an insurer adopts this approach its often on the grounds that 
an application to the courts would likely prove unsuccessful. Here, LV reached its decision 
because it believed there were no real prospects of success.
LV based this decision on evidence it obtained from Mrs J, statements from witnesses, as 
well as the police collision report. Its investigation was centred around the relevant rules of 
the highway code and was predicated on the sequence of events Mrs J described. So, Im 
not persuaded LV overlooked key information. Rather, its my judgement LV took account of 
the meaningful evidence when considering this claim.
Mrs J has questioned whether LV contacted both witnesses and Id like to reassure her it 
did. I acknowledge one of them made observations about the third partys driving. But both 
witnesses confirmed in their statement they didnt see the incident. So, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for LV to not place weight on their testimonies. Likewise, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for it to not take into consideration Mr Js explanation of what happened given 
he wasnt present at the time of the collision.
A fault claim may impact a policyholders future premiums and no claims discount  so it 
can be of great consequence if insurers act unreasonably. When making such decisions, 
insurers do take account of previous case law  and they do have access to expert legal 
advice on a cases relative strengths and weaknesses. 
LV depended on a legal opinion when making its decision, having referred to a solicitor for 
counsel. Theres no compelling reason for me to doubt the credibility of this advice, not least 
because LV forwarded key evidence and circumstances of the claim for review. The witness 
statements were supplied to the solicitor in addition to the police collision report and 
photographs. Im satisfied LV relied on a recommendation from a suitably qualified legal 
professional.
Ive also considered Mrs Js concerns about LVs settlement of the third-party damages. 
I cant compel or cross-examine the parties or witnesses in the way a court can. So, I cant 
comment on what the third party said to the police in relation to the payment or liability. But 
LVs provided us with a copy of the letter it sent to the third party when settling the damages. 
Having considered the available information, Im satisfied LV made it sufficiently clear to the 
third party it had made the payment on a without prejudice basis. 
I havent had sight of the prosecuting authoritys decision Mr J has referred to  the 
investigator gave him the opportunity to send us a copy  but LV has said it would have had 
no issue confirming settlement was made without prejudice to liability if the prosecuting authority had approached it for this information. I know Mr J says this information was 
requested but not provided. Its up to him and Mrs J if they wish to pursue the matter further. 
But Im satisfied LV settled the damages in a way that leaves it open for them to still 
challenge liability.
Considering all the evidence  and given LVs contractual discretion to settle a claim; and its 
legal obligation to meet a potential court judgement in respect of damages sought by the 
third party if the liability is covered by the policy  I dont consider LVs decision was 
inherently unreasonable. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman