DRN-4057171
The complaint
Mrs T complains Royal & Sun Alliance (RSA) have unfairly declined her buildings insurance 
claim.
All references to RSA also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs T feels strongly about these matters. Shes provided several submissions 
and attachments to support her complaint, and I want to assure her Ive read and considered 
them all carefully. 
However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. So, if I dont mention any particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I 
havent seen or thought about it  and isnt meant as a discourtesy to Mrs T.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point the parties have raised or to 
answer every question asked. My role is to consider the evidence presented by Mrs T, and 
by RSA, to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the 
case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
My role here is to decide whether RSA have acted fairly in declining the claim. 
Its not in dispute the guttering is leaking. However, what is in dispute is the cause of 
the damage. Mrs T says she believes the damage was caused by storms around the 
time she made the claim. RSA said the damage was due to a build-up of debris in the 
guttering, causing it to bow over time. RSA have declined the claim as it says the 
damage is gradual wear and tear, which isnt covered under the terms and conditions 
of the policy. 
Mrs T disputed the photos provided by RSA in its visit were of her property. Ive 
reviewed all images provided. I can see some are close ups, which on their own 
might make it difficult to see its Mrs Ts property. However, there are several photos 
which match images of the property online. Additionally, other images, zoomed out 
clearly showing Mrs Ts property, are followed by close ups of the same area, which 
show some of the damage described by RSA. So, Im not persuaded any of these 
images were of another property or doctored in anyway. 
The photos show debris in the guttering and visible signs of what looks to be bowing 
or distortion. While storm conditions were present in the preceding month before the 
time the claim was made, this isnt damage typically caused by a storm. And is more 
consistent with gradual wear and tear. RSA reviewed the information a second time 
and come to the same conclusion, and from reviewing the information available, I 
dont think its conclusion is obviously wrong. 
Mrs T provided an invoice from around April 2022 which says 
to clearing gutters. However, this doesnt provide any further information, such as 
detail about the condition of the guttering at the time or images. So, Im not 
persuaded by this.
RSA has accepted there were times where it failed to respond in a timely manner to 
Mrs T and It has offered Mrs T £25 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances as it fairly recognises the inconvenience caused.
So, for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman