DRN-4008616
The complaint
Mr R has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited because it 
delayed settling his claim which he says caused him to incur costs, including solicitors fees.
What happened
Mr Rs car suffered a fire in May 2021. It was March 2022 before Admiral made a settlement 
for the claim. 
Admiral paid Mr R £23,349.20, being the market value of the vehicle, less the policy excess 
and salvage (a sum charged to Mr R as he was keeping the car). Mr R accepted the 
settlement but felt the claim had been unreasonably delayed. He said this had made him 
incur costs and caused him worry. Admiral accepted it had caused some delays and paid 
£400 compensation. But it said it wouldnt reimburse costs Mr R had incurred. Mr R 
complained to this service.
Our Investigator felt the delays warranted Admiral paying interest on the settlement amount 
from the date of loss. She didnt think though that Admiral should have to reimburse interest 
charges Mr R had incurred on his personal loan taken to fund the purchase of the car. Nor 
pay any further compensation or reimburse Mr Rs solicitors costs. Regarding the costs, she 
felt it had been his choice to appoint the solicitor. 
Mr R didnt object to our Investigators findings. But he asked what the sum of interest would 
be. He also indicated that he thought Admiral should have to pay him the capital of the loan 
amount and hed like us to consider that.
Admiral said it would agree to paying some interest. But not back to the date of loss. Admiral 
said its expert report was received in October 2021  so that is the date it feels it would be 
fair for interest to be paid from.
The complaint was passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration. I felt the complaint 
should be upheld. But my views on it, along with what I felt Admiral would need to do to put 
things right were different from those set out by our Investigator. So I issued a provisional 
decision, my findings of which were:
I am intending to uphold this complaint. I currently intend to award interest on the claim 
settlement amount but differently to that set out by our Investigator. But I also think Admiral 
should reimburse the interest amounts Mr R paid on his personal loan, plus interest*. 
I further intend to require Admiral to pay a total of £750 compensation. However, I dont 
intend to require Admiral to reimburse the loan capital as a result of claim delays and nor do 
I intend to make it reimburse Mr Rs solicitors fees. Ill explain everything below and both 
parties will have a chance to respond before I make a final decision.
Loan capital
Mr R complained to Admiral and then this service about claim delays and the impact this had 
on him  financially and non-financially (worry). The loan was taken out to purchase the car 
subject of the claim  so Mr R being liable for its capital was not the result of any delay 
caused by Admiral in handling the claim. Therefore, I cant fairly and reasonably require 
Admiral to reimburse the loan capital amount to Mr R.
Loan interest amount
Admiral itself has accepted that it caused delays in the handling of this claim. I think that is 
correct. It didnt settle the claim until 22 March 2022. The settlement it paid at that time was 
for the market value of the car  effectively a payment to allow Mr R to replace his car, 
although in this case Mr R had chosen to keep the car and use the settlement to repair it. 
Once the settlement was paid, Mr R then also chose to use part of the amount to settle the 
outstanding finance agreement which he had arranged with his bank to facilitate the 
purchase of the damaged car. Mr R settled the loan on 19 May 2022. I cant reasonably 
blame Admiral for him not settling the loan earlier after the claim settlement was paid to him 
in March 2022. But, arguably, if Admiral hadnt delayed the claim to that point, and if it had 
paid the settlement amount before March 2022, Mr R would have settled the loan earlier too, 
likely before May 2022 but also likely with a pause after receiving the funds from Admiral 
before paying the loan. Which would have meant that some of the interest charges applied 
monthly by the bank, would have been avoided because the loan would have been settled 
earlier. So, I think Admiral should reimburse to Mr R the interest charges he paid after the 
point when hed likely have paid the loan off, after the claim settlement should reasonably 
have been received from Admiral. With interest* being added to each charge paid by Mr R 
from the date of his monthly loan payment  the second day of each month  until settlement 
is made by Admiral. Ill have our Investigator share a table of interest charges and dates, for 
the relevant period, with Admiral. Ive determined the delay period itself under the heading 
When I think the claim should reasonably have been settled by.  
Interest on the claim settlement 
I note Admirals argument in this respect. But Im not really persuaded by it, I think it 
overlooks the whole issue of delay. But that doesnt mean I think that interest on the 
settlement sum from the date of loss should be paid. Ill explain. 
As our Investigator said, it is quite common for this service, in complaints about delays, to 
award interest on claim settlement amounts from the date of loss. And that is particularly the 
case where the settlement for the delayed claim involves the market value for a car as that 
value is often based on what the car was worth as at the date of loss. Values for cars do 
fluctuate over time. Where a claim is settled within a reasonable period that fluctuation is 
either negligible, and/or at least not the fault of the insurer. So no interest would be needed 
or applied. But where an insurer causes delays on a claim it might well be appropriate to 
award interest from the date of loss. We further bear in mind that interest awards of this 
nature are often in line with similar awards made by the courts. However, it is also the case 
that we assess each complaint on its own merits and any decision I issue has to be fair and 
reasonable given the individual circumstances of the case at hand. At this stage, Im not 
persuaded that interest on the settlement amount from the date of loss, in this situation, is 
fair and reasonable. 
Whether or not the market value for Mr Rs car had changed since the date of loss by the 
time Admiral made its settlement on the claim, Mr R did not choose to use the settlement to 
replace the car. Rather the settlement paid was less than the market value for the car 
because Mr R had chosen to keep the car and repair it. He also, as referenced above, chose 
to use part of the settlement funds to clear the personal loan taken out with his bank to 
finance the cars purchase. So applying interest from the date of loss, in this case, doesnt 
feel like it really reflects the loss Mr R suffered as a result of Admirals delays. Ive dealt with 
the impact on the personal loan above, and I havent seen any evidence from Mr R which shows that his cost to repair the car has increased during the period of Admirals delays. So 
the impact on Mr R here, is, I think, limited to being that he simply should have had the 
benefit of the funds, in his pocket, to choose freely what to do with them, at an earlier date. 
As such I think it is fair and reasonable, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, to 
award interest on the settlement sum from the date which I think Admiral should reasonably 
have settled the claim.
When I think the claim should reasonably have been settled by
The fire occurred on 17 May 2021 and Admiral began investigating the claim. I think it 
generally handled things reasonably in the first few weeks  it identified that an expert 
assessment of the car would be needed and it began arranging for that to happen.  There 
was a slight delay of a few days when a technical issue initially prevented the expert from 
receiving the instruction. But I think this was likely unavoidable and, in any event, didnt 
majorly impact the progress of the claim. Admiral, however, knew the experts opinion on the 
cause of damage by the end of June and that he recommended further invasive 
investigations were completed. Those investigations didnt take place until October 2021, 
with the claim settlement following many months later. Theres no good reason I have found 
for those investigations or that settlement being so delayed. 
I think the second inspection should have been authorised shortly after it was recommended 
by the expert. If that had happened, I think a report following the further recommended 
inspection could reasonably have been provided by the end of July 2021. And that following 
a short review by Admiral of the facts in light of the policy cover, settlement could reasonably 
have been made by mid-August 2021.
As such I think the claim was delayed from mid-August 2021 as this was the point by which 
it, in my view, fairly and reasonably, should have been settled. My awards will, therefore, 
reflect that. The reimbursement of the personal loan interest charges, plus interest will apply 
to any payments made after mid-October 2021 (mid-August 2021 plus two months to allow 
Mr R to settle the loan). And an amount, equivalent to interest* applied on the claim 
settlement sum from 15 August 2021 until 22 March 2022  when the settlement was made 
 should be paid. 
Compensation
It took Admiral nearly a year to settle Mr Rs claim. And even allowing a reasonable period 
as Ive explained above, for investigation and consideration of liability, the claim was delayed 
by around seven months form mid-August 2021 until the settlement date of 22 March 2022. 
I know that Mr R was worried during that time  and understandably so, he had spent his 
savings on the car, topped up by a personal loan. He also felt reminded of the fire each time 
he had to challenge Admiral  which I understand was also upsetting for him. And hed have 
been able to start putting that behind him earlier if Admiral hadnt unreasonably prolonged 
the claim. I know he had another car to use, so his inconvenience was somewhat limited. 
But the delays also meant the car had to be returned to him for storage for a time. 
There was also a period when the garage, where the car had been stored, had asked 
Admiral to pay storage costs and Admiral refused. Admiral did later come to an agreement 
with the garage. But I know that Mr R was worried in the meantime about what would 
happen if Admiral didnt pay the several thousand pounds the garage was asking for. 
So, bearing all of that in mind, and taking into account that Admiral also delayed replying to 
Mr Rs complaint, I think a total of £750 compensation is fairly and reasonably due. As 
Admiral has paid £400 already, it will now, if my final decision remains the same and Mr R 
accepts it within the deadline set, have to pay the remaining £350. Solicitors fees
It was December 2021 when Mr R appointed a solicitor. I fully appreciate that, by then, he 
was very frustrated with Admiral as it had told him it wouldnt pay the claim and that he 
should pursue the garage which had last repaired the car. And Mr R could only do that 
through the courts. So, in a way, it seems logical that he turned to a solicitor for assistance. 
And, as Admiral later changed its mind and settled the claim, I can see why Mr R might think 
it should have to reimburse the solicitors costs he incurred due to its refusal. 
However, Admiral did not just refuse to settle the claim and leave Mr R with no other option 
than to appoint a solicitor. Rather Admiral told Mr R that if he didnt agree with its view, he 
could complain to us. As a free, impartial and informal service we dont require either party to 
be represented by a solicitor in order for a complaint to be made or progressed. And Mr R 
had complained to us in November 2021 before he then chose to also appoint a solicitor in 
December 2021. I appreciate that Mr R wanted to cover all his bases  he had two possible 
ways to progress things and he chose to utilise both at once. Which is not unreasonable. But 
it does mean that I cant reasonably require Admiral to reimburse Mr Rs solicitors fees 
because it was Mr Rs choice to incur solicitor costs even though he was challenging the 
very decision which had made them a potential necessity.  
Admiral did not respond to my provisional decision. 
Mr R said he accepted it and that he was pleased that Admiral would have to reimburse him 
for his personal loan, plus interest from October 2021 to May 2022.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has objected to my findings, Ive no cause to change them. I note Mr Rs 
comments about the personal loan and would reiterate that as explained provisionally, I do 
not find Admiral is reasonably liable for any capital sum. I remain of that view. I am also still 
of the view that it should reimburse Mr Rs interest charges paid between mid-October 2021 
and 2 May 2022.
Putting things right
I require Admiral to:
Reimburse charges on Mr Rs personal loan accrued between mid-October 2021 and 
2 May 2022, plus interest* on each charged amount from the date of that months 
payment by Mr R until settlement of this award is made. 
Pay Mr R an amount equivalent to interest* applied on the claim settlement sum of 
£23,349.20 from 15 August 2021 until 22 March 2022.
Pay Mr R a further £350 compensation where the total compensation awarded is £750 
but £400 of that sum has already been paid. 
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman