DRN-2552595
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited declined her claim 
on her pet insurance.
 
What happened
Mrs E had pet insurance that was underwritten by Red Sands. In December 2019 she made 
a claim for tests and treatment for a skin condition for her dog. 
Red Sands declined the claim. It said her policy only covers her dog for 365 days for a 
condition, from the date of onset. It said she had first made a claim for a skin condition for 
her dog in 2013, so cover for this ended in 2014. Therefore no further claims for the skin 
condition would be covered under the policy. 
Mrs E didnt think this was fair. She said that although her dog had suffered from previous 
skin conditions, this one was different and unrelated to those claimed for previously. She 
said her dog had suffered no problems with his skin between 2016 and 2019, which shows 
that he recovered from the previous problem. She made a complaint. 
Red Sands didnt uphold her complaint. It said it had reviewed the claim history for her dog 
and the condition that was being claimed for was very similar to the condition he 
experienced in 2013. So it said it was correct in declining the claim.
Mrs E didnt think this was fair. She said she had provided a letter from her vet that said the 
conditions were unlikely to be linked due to the time that had elapsed between them. She 
brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said from looking at the 
patient history notes from the vet, the skin conditions that were diagnosed were similar. So 
she thought Red Sands had acted fairly by declining Mrs Es claim.
Mrs E didnt agree, so the complaint has come to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Red Sands has declined Mrs Es claim due to a term in the policy that means conditions are 
only covered for 365 from the onset. Ive looked at the policy document, under what is 
covered it states:
Cover is provided for up to 365 days only from the date of occurrence, up to the amount 
specified in your policy limit
Mrs E doesnt dispute this condition, or that she was aware of it. But she doesnt think it was 
fair for Red Sands to apply it to her claim. She says the condition her dog has suffered this 
time is completely different from the condition in 2013.I need to decide if Red Sands has 
acted fairly and reasonably by declining Mrs Es claim due to this policy condition.
To do this I have considered the medical history of Mrs Es dog that has been provided by 
the vet. I can see that between 2013 and 2016 Mrs Es dog had a number of problems with 
different areas of his skin. The vet reports detail areas of pyoderma (bacterial skin infection) 
and patches of alopecia (hair loss). While the underlying cause doesnt seem to have been 
diagnosed, over time it cleared up with shampoo and flea treatment. 
In the report from 2019 the vet says Mrs Es dog has lumps on him that was causing him 
discomfort. The report concludes that it is likely to be caused by a skin allergy or bacterial 
pyoderma. But again, no definitive diagnosis appears to have been made.
From considering these reports I think Red Sands has acted fairly by relying on the 
condition. While the skin conditions from between 2013 and 2016 and those in 2019 havent 
been explicitly linked, I think there is enough evidence from the vets reports to suggest that 
they are. The symptoms described are very similar and on both occasions, it is suggested 
that the conditions are caused by a bacterial skin infection, but no diagnosis is made of the 
underlying condition causing it. 
Further Red Sands has provided a copy of its underwriting guidance. This is commercially 
sensitive, so Im not able to share the contents of the document. However Im satisfied that it 
shows that Red Sands has acted in line with this guidance, and has treated Mrs E in the 
same way it would claim from other customers with this policy. 
Mrs E has said that she doesnt think the two conditions are linked and has provided an 
email from the vet that states as follows:
There was also no allergy tests performed so we are unable to confirm or deny that the two 
conditions are related. There has been no record of skin issues between 2016 to 2019 
therefore the conditions being related is unlikely.
I have considered this but I dont think its enough to say Red Sands has acted unfairly. As 
the vet says, the underlying cause of skin conditions hasnt been diagnosed. So its not 
possible to say whether they are related. And while I agree that passage of time between the 
two instances may mean that there are different causes, I think the symptoms are similar 
enough for Red Sands to have fairly applied the policy condition. 
So while I sympathise with Mrs Es position, I dont think Red Sands has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably by apply the 365 days condition in the policy. So I wont ask it to do anything 
differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman