DRN-4196519
The complaint
Mrs N has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc trading as Petplan added an unfair 
exclusion to her horses insurance policy. Mrs N thinks the exclusion is too broad.
What happened
Mrs N took out insurance for her horse with Allianz in May 2020. Allianz said it received 
claims for suspensory ligament damage in a hind limb in May 2021.
The policy was renewed in May 2022. In July 2022 Mrs N told Allianz that her horse had 
changed to a different policy activity group. Allianz realised it should have added an 
additional exclusion on the last renewal. It told Mrs N it was adding an exclusion in respect of 
tendons and/or ligaments for both hind limbs due to the previous claim for hind limb 
lameness.
Mrs N thought this was too broad and that instead the exclusion should be narrowed down to 
an injury to the same ligament that had previously been injured.
Allianz said the exclusion was fair because an affected tendon or ligament can cause strains 
and further issues in other tendons or ligaments in both the affected leg or the bilateral limb. 
It said it might be able to narrow the exclusion to the affected limb if the horse had been 
sound for six months. It further said if the horse had been sound for 12 months, the 
exclusion could be limited to the affected tendon/ligament.
I issued a preliminary decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint in part. 
An extract from my provisional findings is set out below:
When a customer notifies an insurer about some form of change to their circumstances 
during the course of their insurance contract, this is referred to as a mid-term adjustment. 
What this means is that the contract of insurance is being updated or modified at the request 
of either the customer or the business due to a change in circumstances or a change in the 
key details. Once a change has been requested, the insurer will have to review the new 
information and decide what it means for the policy. Depending on the outcome of that 
review, the terms of the policy may change. 
My role here is to decide whether Allianz treated Mrs N fairly during a mid-term adjustment 
to the policy. I dont think it did. Ill explain why.
Allianz has told us that when the horses activity group was changed, it realised that on the 
previous renewal it hadnt added the exclusion for claims relating to tendons and/or 
ligaments for both hind limbs due to the previous claim for hind limb lameness. 
I think the only elements of the policy which should change on a mid-term adjustment are 
those which are relevant to the change of circumstances (in this case, the change in horses 
activities) and significant in terms of risk. It shouldnt be used as an opportunity to correct an 
oversight on the insurers part.
Therefore I provisionally think it wasnt reasonable for Allianz to add this exclusion as part of 
a mid-term adjustment. To put things right I think Allianz should remove the exclusion from 
the policy.
I also think Allianz should make a payment to Mrs N to reflect her inconvenience in having to 
deal with this matter. In the circumstances I think the sum of £100 is fair and reasonable.
In response Allianz agreed to remove the exclusion it added to the policy in July 2022 but 
said it would look to include it again on renewal. Mrs N was also concerned about the 
renewal terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party objected to my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them. 
However, this wouldnt preclude Allianz from including such an endorsement when the policy 
comes up for renewal. Thats because its a commercial decision for Allianz as to whether to 
include an endorsement in the terms and conditions of the cover its willing to offer. The 
documents Ive seen indicate the policy is an annual one, so Allianz can propose changes to 
the policy and it would be for Mrs N to decide whether to accept a policy on those terms. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Allianz Insurance Plc 
trading as Petplan to remove the exclusion for tendons and/or ligaments in both hind limbs 
from her policy which began in May 2022 and to pay her £100 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman