DRN-4152072
The complaint
Mr Z complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) is refusing to refund him the amount 
he lost as the result of a scam.
Mr Z is being represented by a third party. To keep things simple, I will refer to Mr Z 
throughout my decision.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary, Mr Z was using Twitter for several years keeping up to date with Twitter forums 
about crypto currency investment including live chats with many different Twitter members. 
Twitter was a well know platform that Mr Z trusted at the time.
An individual (X) from one of the forums Mr Z was following messaged him directly. She 
initially gave Mr Z market trends and tips on trades before explaining that Mr Z could mine 
Ethereum on Coinbase via the platform ISO Blockycoins.
Mr Z was able to see that other people on the forums he had been following were also 
talking about the same platform and that it was a good platform to use. Mr Z explained that 
Xs profile looked legitimate, and he was unable to see anything negative about the platform 
X had recommended.
Mr Z and X continued to discuss their common interest in cryptocurrency before moving their 
conversation from Twitter to WhatsApp upon Xs request. X then continued to mention the 
ISO Blockycoins opportunity and eventually sent Mr Z a link to the platform.
Mr Z tells us he took care investigating ISO Blockycoins before making any investment and 
was unable to find anything negative about it. Having carried out some research Mr Z 
downloaded Coinbase as requested by X and clicked on the link provided. The trading 
platform looked professional, and Mr Z was able to navigate the platform as he expected.
After making an initial investment X explained Mr Z would have to make further payments to 
prevent him losing his funds. X was able to persuade Mr Z to make several payments in this 
way and when Mr Z could see a substantial profit on the trading platform, he decided to 
make a withdrawal. X explained that Mr Z would have to make payments in relation to tax, 
Mr Z made these payments but again X asked for further payments related to further tax 
required by the US government. At this stage Mr Z realised he was being scammed and 
recovered what funds he could. 
Mr Z made the following payments into the scam via Coinbase:
Date Payee Payment Method Amount
8 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £1,000.00
8 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £2,000.00
9 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £6,000.00
15 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £4,500.00
15 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £10,000.00
16 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £500.00
18 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £6,000.00
21 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £10.00
21 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £4,000.00
21 March 2022 Mr Z - Coinbase Transfer £9,500.00
21 March 2022 Coinbase Refund - £203.93
21 March 2022 Coinbase Refund - £233.24
21 March 2022 Coinbase Refund - £500.00
21 March 2022 Coinbase Refund - £568.39
21 March 2022 Coinbase Refund - £699.99
  
Our Investigator considered Mr Zs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr Z 
disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It has not been disputed that Mr Z has fallen victim to a cruel scam. The evidence provided 
by both Mr Z and Barclays sets out what happened. What is in dispute is whether Barclays 
should refund the money Mr Z lost due to the scam.
Recovering the payments Mr Z made
Mr Z made the payments into the scam via the method of transfer via a Coinbase account in 
his own name. When payments are made by transfer Barclays has limited options available 
to it for recovery. I can see that when Mr Z realised, he had fallen victim to the scam he 
withdrew as much as he could from Coinbase so I am satisfied Barclays wouldnt have been 
able to recover any more from Coinbase had it made a request.
I have also considered if Mr Z should have received a refund under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model (CRM) code. But the CRM code only applies when domestic 
payments (as the result of a scam) are sent to another person. Here Mr Z sent the payments 
to an account held in his own name and the scam occurred when he moved his funds from 
that account to the scammer. Im satisfied the CRM Code wouldnt apply in this scenario.
With the above in mind, I dont think Barclays had any recovery options available to it.
Should Barclays have reasonably prevented the payments Mr Z made? 
It has been accepted that Mr Z authorised the payments that were made from his account 
with Barclays, albeit on Xs instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr Z is responsible.
However, banks and other Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect 
against the risk of financial loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large 
transactions to guard against money laundering.
The question here is whether Barclays should have been aware of the scam and stepped in 
and questioned Mr Z about the payments he was making. And if it had questioned Mr Z 
would it have been able to prevent the scam taking place.Mr Z started making relatively small payments into the scam which I wouldnt have expected 
to have triggered Barclays fraud prevention systems. Although the third payment Mr Z made 
was for £6,000. This payment was not in line with the way Mr Z usually operated his account 
and I think this payment should have prompted Barclays to step in and question Mr Z about 
it.
However, if Mr Z was questioned about the payment, I think its likely he would have told 
Barclays the same as what he has told us. He had followed groups on twitter for quite some 
time, was communicating with someone from one of the groups with a shared interest and 
had researched both the platform and Coinbase before making any payments. There was no 
adverse information available at the time of the scam in relation to ISO Blockycoins.
With the above in mind, even if Barclays had stepped in, I think its very unlikely that it would 
have been able to uncover the scam or prevent it from taking place. So, Barclays is not 
responsible for Mr Zs loss. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman