DRN-4178325
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with West Bay Insurance Plcs (WBI) decision to decline his claim made on 
a pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ss annual policy for his pet dog started in February 2022. He contacted WBI to make a 
claim for vets fees, from two different vets, in August 2022 after his dog fell ill and needed 
treatment.
WBI considered the claim but told him it wasnt prepared to pay it on the grounds that it felt 
the illness was pre-existing at the start of the policy. WBI explained that the policy didnt pay 
out for costs resulting from pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs) that were present 
before the policy start date. WBI also explained that, had the claim been accepted, the policy 
allowed it to deduct two excess amounts as Mr Ss dog had been treated for the same 
condition by two different vets practices. 
Unhappy with WBIs decision, Mr S brought a complaint to this service. He didnt believe the 
illness claimed for was pre-existing or that it would be fair for WBI to charge two excess 
amounts in the circumstances. Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt 
recommend that it should be upheld.
As Mr S said he didnt agree with the investigators findings, the complaint was passed to me 
to consider afresh. 
I issued a provisional decision recommending that the complaint be upheld in part. I didnt 
believe that the evidence showed the condition claimed for directly resulted from any 
PEMCs. I asked WBI to pay the claim albeit WBI was entitled to deduct two excess amounts. 
On reflection, I subsequently asked WBI to deduct only one excess amount further to Mr Ss 
submissions and given the circumstances in which his dog was treated by two vets 
practices.
I asked both parties to provide additional information for me to consider before I reached a 
final decision.
Mr S accepted my conclusions. 
WBI didnt agree with my findings. It said it wasnt in doubt that Mr Ss dog had pancreatitis 
before the start of the policy. It acknowledged that, when they were treated in relation to the 
current claims, no blood testing was carried out, meaning there were only the vets notes to 
go on. The vets believed the cause of the claim to be pancreatitis or GI (gastrointestinal) 
upset. WBI said the first claim was for pancreatitis according to the information provided on 
its online portal claim submission.
In relation to WBIs application of the second excess, it said it was entitled to do so as per 
the policy wording. It said there was nothing to suggest that wording was unclear, 
ambiguous, or misleading such that it couldnt rely on it here.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
I think its important to start by explaining what the relevant policy terms and conditions say. 
They explain that, subject to certain exclusions, WBI will pay the cost of vets fees for the 
treatment of illness or injury. Those exclusions include costs resulting from pre-existing 
conditions.
The term pre-existing conditions is defined in the policy as:
Any illness or injury or complication directly resulting from another injury or illness, 
whether diagnosed or undiagnosed or that has been identified or investigated by a 
vet or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of the insurance
 
WBI says the illness Mr S claimed for in August 2022 first arose in May 2021. I note that the 
details completed by one of the vets that treated Mr Ss dog on WBIs online claim portal 
recorded Pain and vomiting  possible pancreatitis flare up. The other portal entry made by 
the other vets Mr S consulted refers to Treatment of vomiting/diarrhoea. Clinical notes from 
the time of the claim indicate a differential diagnosis of gastroenteritis and/or pancreatitis. 
The vets clinical notes for May 2021  around nine months before the start of the policy  
show Mr S took his dog to the vet as they were unwell. The clinical notes from that time 
record suspect acute pancreatitis due to the nature of the symptoms experienced and a 
blood test was done. The vet said they discussed medications and dietary changes with 
Mr S.
Although the pancreatic blood test at the time was negative, the notes showed the vet 
explained to Mr S that pancreatitis couldnt be ruled out due to the delay between symptoms 
first presenting and when the blood test was carried out. 
In October 2021, Mr Ss dog fell ill again, and the vet noted suspected pancreatitis flare up? 
Further blood tests done resulted in the vet noting Suspected pancreatitis/infection. 
In November 2021, Mr Ss dog was apparently much better following the vets advice with 
the vet asking the lab to repeat TLI [trypsin-like immunoreactivity  the measurement of 
which is used to diagnose pancreatitis] to [assess] improvement in pancreatitis.
A few weeks before the start of the policy in February 2022, the vet noted Mr Ss dog 
suffered with chronic pancreatitis. They avoided prescribing tablets for a skin condition so as 
not to trigger an episode of pancreatitis, as his dog was already recovering from an episode 
that had occurred a few days ago. 
On the above grounds, WBI says the costs claimed for in August 2022 arose from a PEMC  
in this case pancreatitis. 
Where an insurer declines a claim based on a policy exclusion, as in this case, wed typically 
expect it to demonstrate that the exclusion applies on the balance of the available evidence. 
Essentially, Ive found that it wasnt fair for WBI to rely on the pre-existing exclusion clause 
that it did to decline the claim. I understand why its cited the exclusion. I recognise that there 
are similarities between the condition Mr Ss dog was diagnosed with and treated for prior to 
the start of the policy and the condition they were treated for in August 2022.  
But its not enough for WBI to show mere similarities or a possible link between the 
conditions. I accept, as does Mr S, that his dog had likely suffered with pancreatitis in the 
past. Much of WBIs submissions in response to my provisional decision support that point. 
But the exclusion goes further and excludes Any illness or injury or complication directly 
resulting from another injury or illness, whether diagnosed or undiagnosed or that has been 
identified or investigated by a vet or is otherwise known to you prior to the start of the 
insurance [my emphasis].
 
I dont believe the available evidence shows the illness claimed for directly resulted from the 
pre-existing pancreatitis. Thats because of the opinions provided by the treating vets, which 
I note arent contradicted by an equivalent expert opinion. The claims portal details for the 
first claim showed the vet suspected pancreatitis but qualified that by saying it was possible 
that was the condition Mr Ss dog had suffered from. I think this is important as this doesnt 
demonstrate to me that the claim more likely than not arose from pancreatitis. I believe 
WBIs assertion that the portal information shows that the first claim was for pancreatitis is 
overly simplistic. Clearly, the vet wasnt in any way certain about the cause, and I dont 
reasonably see how WBI could be either. 
I realise the claims portal details for the second claim show it was a continuation of the first. 
But no mention of pancreatitis was made by the vet on this occasion  just, as WBI says in 
its response to my provisional decision, the symptoms experienced. Looking at the clinical 
notes from the time of the claim, the vet made a differential diagnosis. In other words, it 
wasnt clear to the vet what the cause of the claim was. Its true that the vet referred to 
pancreatitis as one possible diagnosis. But they also referred to GE  gastroenteritis  as 
another. There was no indication as to which, in the vets view, was more likely to be the 
cause. So, I think we can reasonably take it that the vet felt it was equally possible that either 
condition was the cause of the claim.
 
In these circumstances, and despite carefully considering WBIs responses to my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that it was fair for WBI to rely on the pre-existing exclusion to 
decline the claim. In summary, I still havent seen sufficient evidence showing the condition 
claimed for was more likely than not pancreatitis. I believe the evidence indicates it was just 
as likely to have been gastroenteritis. 
Im aware that the policy terms allow, on the face of it, for WBI to deduct two excess 
amounts given that Mr S consulted two different vets for the same condition in the same 
period of insurance. Contrary to what WBI believes, in both my provisional decision and this 
final decision I focused on section 1 of the policy under the sub-heading What is not 
covered? which included:
The fixed excess which is payable by you on a per incident, per period of insurance 
basis. If your pet is seen and/or treated by another veterinary practice (or specialist) 
for the same condition in the same period of insurance, another fixed excess 
becomes due for any further costs incurred from the second treating vet 
On reflection, I dont believe its fair and reasonable in the circumstances that Mr S should 
pay two excess amounts just because he had to visit an alternative practice out of hours. It 
isnt as though, for example, Mr S was deliberately seeking an alternative vets opinion on 
his dogs diagnosis or treatment. His hand was effectively forced by his dog needing 
treatment when his own vets practice was closed. And, as WBI itself accepts, the second 
claim was a continuation of the first. Im not saying that the above policy term is unclear or 
ambiguous. But I dont believe the term was intended to allow an additional deduction of 
excess in such circumstances or that it would fair and reasonable for the term to operate in 
that way in this case.Putting things right
WBI should pay Mr Ss claims in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions, and 
apply only one fixed excess amount. Interest should be added to any payment made at the 
annual rate of 8%, calculated from the date Mr S paid the vets for the relevant treatment up 
until the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires WBI to take off tax from this interest. WBI must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require West Bay Insurance 
Plc to put things right for Mr S as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman