DRN-2281550
The complaint
Miss M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider
this complaint against the seller of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place
before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services
Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation activities or were otherwise covered by our
jurisdiction.
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently
transferred its business to AXA, so it has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer to do otherwise.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card Miss M took out in 2001. It was
sold to her in-store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear the PPI was optional. Miss M says 
she was told that by taking the policy it would help her secure the store card. She says she 
didnt need the PPI. 
AXA has provided a copy of Miss Ms store card and PPI application form. The form has a 
separate section for the PPI and applicants had to sign this section if they wished to take out 
the policy. Miss M signed the section. And she signed the overall credit agreement, so I think 
if there was anything on the form she wasnt sure about or hadnt agreed to, she would have 
had the opportunity to question it at the time. Otherwise I wouldnt have expected Miss M to 
have signed a document she didnt agree with or understand. 
While I dont know for sure how the PPI policy was presented to Miss M, on balance, I think 
it most likely AXA made it clear that Miss M didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember the full circumstances of the 
sale in any detail as it took place more than 20 years ago.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Miss M, so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her.
But it did have to make sure Miss M got the information she needed to decide if it was right
for her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  she hasnt told us that 
she suffered from any pre-existing medical conditions as an example. Miss M says she 
would have received sick pay and redundancy benefits from her employer. But the PPI 
would have paid out alongside her employee benefits meaning she could have used those to 
cover other essential costs at what could have been a difficult time.
It doesnt look like the policy was unaffordable for Miss M. As such, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Overall, I dont think Miss M has lost out because of anything AXA might have done wrong.
Ive thought carefully about everything Miss M has said, but for the reasons explained above
these points dont change my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman