DRN-2840299
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr W complain about their insurer, The Equine and Livestock Insurance 
Company Limited (EL). Their complaint relates to damage to their caravan in bad weather, 
which they believe showed a previous repair had been badly carried out. 
EL use agents to administer the policy and assess claims. References to EL includes these 
agents.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr W had a caravan insurance policy with EL between 2013 and 2017, after 
which they had a policy with another insurer. In February 2020, around the time of Storm 
Denis, Mrs B and Mr W were away and noticed damage to their caravan on their return. The 
caravan had been repaired in 2016, after some delay, having been damaged in an incident 
in 2015. 
Mrs B and Mr W contacted their current insurer, who appointed an assessor (B) to inspect 
the damage. Bs report noted light storm damage to the front of the caravan. B added that 
from a visual inspection they considered there were poor previous repairs to the damaged 
area. Based on Bs report, Mrs B and Mr Ws insurer said that they wouldnt consider the 
claim, saying the damage was the result of the earlier repair not being carried out properly.
 
Mrs B and Mr W then contacted EL to complain, saying that the original repair had begun to 
fail. EL appointed their own assessor (A) to inspect the caravan. A concluded that the repair 
to the front of the caravan had been carried out to a satisfactory standard (although the paint 
finish to the area was not, causing the paint to flake away). As report noted water ingress in 
the area of the repair but concluded it wasnt related to the original repair.
EL rejected Mrs B and Mr Ws complaint, saying that they didnt think that the issues were a 
result of the original repair and the length of time that had elapsed between the repairs and 
the subsequent issues. EL also noted Mrs B and Mr W signed a satisfaction slip at the time 
of the repairs to indicate that they were happy with the repairs.
Mrs B and Mr W then complained to this service. The main element of the complaint was 
that the previous repair hadnt been carried out properly, which led to the damage during 
Storm Denis. They asked that EL should either repair or replace the damaged caravan.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that the issues were in the same area 
of the original repair. But the caravan was likely to have been used and subject to different 
weather conditions in the time after the repairs. The investigator concluded there wasnt 
sufficient evidence to show that the issues were the result of the repairs. It was also possible 
that the damage was caused by the adverse weather at the time of Storm Denis, or that the 
issues resulted from wear and tear.
Mrs B and Mr W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. They continued to believe that the damage was a result 
of the original repairs being badly carried out.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether EL has acted fairly towards Mrs B and Mr W.
The main element of Mrs B and Mr Ws complaint is that the repairs in 2016 were carried out 
badly and led to the subsequent damage at the time of Storm Denis. Ive looked at the 
evidence available, including the reports from B and A.
Taking Bs report first, it states ..it would appear there are poor previous repairs to the N/S 
front. The report goes on to note a crack in the join between the front and side panels, 
allowing water to seep through. The report also notes that The Front Panel has Lacquer 
peeling which is due do poor adhesion from the previous repair. 
I can see from their case notes that EL didnt think that Bs report clearly indicated that the 
previous repairs had been responsible for the damage, so appointed their own assessor to 
inspect the damage. I think thats reasonable.
 
Looking at As report, it states that the n/s/f lower corner of the front panel has been 
repaired and not replaced. Although the repair is to a satisfactory standard the paint finish is 
not. Resulting in the paint flaking away. I would suggest that this is due to poor adhesion.
 
I can also see further discussion between A and EL and an additional report from A that 
states: The front panel has been repaired and not replaced. As it was repaired it may not 
have been necessary to replace the awning rails. If the awning rails were not replaced during 
the original repair, then in our opinion the water ingress is not related to the original claim.
I understand that it was confirmed that the awning rails werent replaced, so As opinion is 
that the water ingress wouldnt be related to the original repair. In any event, while both 
reports indicate an issue with the lacquer and paintwork, the report from B doesnt indicate 
that this led to the water ingress (it notes a crack between panels). Nor does it explicitly state 
that the previous repairs caused the water ingress. And As report concludes that the water 
ingress wasnt due to the original repair.
Ive also considered ELs point that Mrs B and Mr W signed a confirmation slip to indicate 
that they were happy with the repairs carried out in 2016. However, Im not persuaded that 
this is conclusive evidence of the repairs being carried out properly, as it would be likely to 
have been from a simple visual appearance of the repaired area at the time. I note from ELs 
case notes that Mrs B and Mr W raised issues about [other] repairs at the time they were 
carried out, and that these issues were resolved directly with the repairer.
Ive also considered ELs point that nearly four years elapsed between the repairs and the 
subsequent issues at the time of the adverse weather and Storm Denis. While Ive not seen 
any evidence about whether the repairs were guaranteed, and if so for what period, had 
there been a significant issue with the quality of the repairs then I would have expected this 
to have become apparent sooner. If the cause of the water ingress was (as A concludes) the 
result of a crack between panels, I dont think its possible, on the balance of probabilities, to 
conclude that this was a result of the earlier repairs. As opposed to wear and tear or another 
cause in the four year period, or to the adverse weather itself.
Taking all these points, Ive concluded that, on the balance of probabilities, the damage 
caused at the time of Storm Denis hasnt been shown to have been caused by the original 
repairs. So I dont think EL have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs B and Mr W.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mrs B and Mr Ws 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman