DRN-3219779
The complaint
Miss M complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under her 
HomeCare insurance policy.
What happened
Miss M has a HomeCare policy with British Gas, which covers her boiler, central heating, 
plumbing and drains.
In December 2020, she reported a problem with a radiator in her bathroom. British Gas sent 
an engineer, who concluded that Miss Ms central heating system needed to be flushed.
Miss M says that when she contacted British Gas to arrange for the flush to be carried out, 
she received poor service.
She says calls went to automated responses and werent answered, correspondence was 
ignored or not answered fully, and promises to call back werent kept.
She made a complaint to British Gas. They apologised for Miss Ms difficulties in getting hold 
of them and explained that, under the terms of her policy, Miss M would be entitled to a free 
flush of her system if shed at any time previously bought a flush from British Gas.
In April 2021, Miss M provided evidence (an invoice) that shed paid British Gas for a 
previous flush, in 2001. British Gas were unable to read some of the copy document Miss M 
provided but were slow to follow this up and ask for a clearer copy.
Miss M wasnt happy with British Gas customer service or their response to her complaint, 
so she brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and concluded that British Gas should provide the flush for 
Miss M  and that they should pay her £100 in compensation for the poor service.
Miss M disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She thinks she hasnt 
had the service she paid for from British Gas and wants her premiums refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute in this case about what Miss M is entitled to under the policy. Shes 
provided evidence  which British Gas now accept  that she bought a flush from them in the 
past. That means shes entitled to a free flush now.
So, the only question for me to consider now is whether the £100 our investigator 
recommended British Gas should pay Miss M is fair and reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset shes suffered.
I have to bear in mind that the time when Miss M was trying to contact British Gas and 
arrange the flush coincided with the third national lockdown due to COVID. British Gas have 
pointed out that during that time they were prioritising customers who had emergency needs.
However, theres no doubt that the service provided was poor, even taking those 
circumstances into account. 
In a nutshell, it seems Miss M couldnt contact anyone at British Gas to talk about her 
situation or to book the flush service (either immediately or in the future). It was March 2021 
 over two months after the engineers visit - before Miss M was told shed need to provide 
evidence of her previous purchase of a flush from British Gas.
That must have been frustrating and annoying for Miss M. And throughout that time, Miss M 
was without effective heating in her bathroom.
However, whilst I know that this will disappoint Miss M, I agree with our investigator that 
£100 is fair and reasonable compensation for Miss Ms trouble and upset. 
Miss M wasnt without hot water or heating at any point. The problem affected only the 
bathroom. Whilst this may have been inconvenient, I hope Miss M will accept that the impact 
was, to an extent, limited.
I should also point out that Miss M complained to us in April 2021, after shed provided the 
copy of the invoice to British Gas. Under the rules which govern how we operate, Im only 
able to look at the trouble and upset Miss M suffered up to that point.
If Miss M is dissatisfied with the service shes received from British Gas since then, shed be 
entitled to make a further complaint to them  and to bring that to us if she isnt satisfied with 
British Gas response.
I understand Miss Ms argument that she should have her premiums refunded because shes 
not had the service she paid for. However, I cant agree with it. 
Although British Gas may have been slow to get things sorted out for Miss M, they are doing 
so, as I understand it. So, she will get the service she paid for  albeit perhaps later than it 
might have been provided.
Id also point out that Miss M has been on cover for her boiler, central heating, plumbing and 
drains during the period in question. She may not have had to call on that cover for any other 
problems, but the very point of insurance is that we pay for the cover, not for the repairs or 
replacements when things go wrong. 
You cant justifiably ask for your premiums to be returned because you havent had to make 
a claim. And British Gas would have been obliged to respond if something else had gone 
wrong. So, Im satisfied Miss M has had the cover she paid for.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigator that British Gas are obliged to provide the service promised 
under Miss Ms policy terms. She is entitled to a free flush service if thats whats required to 
get the bathroom radiator working again.
I also agree that British Gas should pay Miss M £100 compensation for her trouble and 
upset. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint.
British Gas must: 
provide the service Miss M is entitled to under the terms of her policy; and
pay Miss M £100 in compensation for her trouble and upset.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman