DRN-3228144
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out the PPI to protect their mortgage taken in 1986. Its not clear when 
the sale took place, but the premiums started being charged in September 1987.
The policy cost Mr and Mrs S a monthly amount of £16. And it would have paid out £400 per 
month for up to 24 months per claim for accident, sickness or involuntary redundancy. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss case. Having done so, Ive decided 
not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to let Mr and Mrs S know the policy was optional and it had to get their 
consent before it set up the PPI. Mr and Mrs S say they didnt know they had the policy, but 
Nationwide says Mr and Mrs S would have chosen to have PPI.
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened 
when the PPI was sold. 
Over the years, weve seen a number of Nationwide cases involving various methods of 
sales from around the same period Mr and Mrs were sold their PPI. Using what I know 
generally of Nationwides sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mr and 
Mrs S would have been given an option to take out the PPI and that Nationwide would have 
gained their consent before adding it to their account. 
This is supported by the statements which suggest the PPI started around one year after the 
mortgage was already in place. So, I think Mr and Mrs S would more likely than not have 
noticed the additional cost. And if they hadnt agreed to take the policy, I would have 
expected them to have raised this with Nationwide much sooner. Although, its 
understandable if Mr and Mrs S dont remember taking the policy now  some 35 years later. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S say they would have attempted to claim on the policy when 
Mrs S was unemployed around 1992 to 1993 if theyd known about it. I do not know the 
precise dates involved, but I note that the business has confirmed the policy was cancelled 
when the mortgage was redeemed  also in 1993. So, its possible this explains why they 
didnt claim on the policy. In any case, as Ive said above, I think its more likely than not 
Nationwide got their consent before adding the policy to their account even if Mr and Mrs S 
dont recall this now. 
Nationwide says it didnt give Mr and Mrs S any advice and thats consistent with my 
knowledge of how Nationwide sold PPI. That means Nationwide didnt have to check the 
policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs S, but it did need to give them enough information about 
the PPI, so they could decide whether to take it or not. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have been. But I dont think better information about the PPI would have made a 
difference to Mr and Mrs Ss decision to take the policy. I say this because Mr and Mrs S 
were both eligible for the policy and they dont appear to have been affected by any of the 
things that might have made it harder for them to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-
existing medical condition or unusual employment circumstances. And, in my experience, 
the premium wasnt excessive in comparison to similar policies available elsewhere.
The mortgage was secured against Mr and Mrs Ss home and so the consequences of them 
not being able to keep up payments could have been serious. The policy would have paid 
out in addition to the employee benefits Mr and Mrs S have told us about and potentially for 
much longer. And Mr and Mrs S could have claimed again, subject to a requalification 
period. So, I think the policy could have been useful to Mr and Mrs S if they fell on hard 
times.
Overall, I dont think Mr and Mrs Ss PPI was mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman