DRN-3762495
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money she lost when she was 
the victim of what she feels was a scam.
What happened
In January 2022, Mrs H agreed to buy a pair of trainers from someone shed been in contact 
with through an instant messaging app. She sent a payment of £725 from her Barclays 
account to the account details the seller gave her. But the trainers were never delivered and, 
when she contacted the seller to ask for a refund, the seller stopped responding to her and 
ultimately blocked her on the messaging app and other social media platforms. Mrs H then 
reported the payment to Barclays as a scam and asked it to refund the money shed lost.
Barclays investigated but said Mrs H had bought items from the seller before which had 
been successfully delivered. So it didnt think the seller had set out to scam Mrs H here and 
felt this was a civil dispute between her and the seller. So it didnt agree to refund the money 
she had lost. Mrs H wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They said it was likely the seller was 
legitimate, as Mrs H had made payments to them and received goods from them previously. 
So they thought this was a civil dispute between Mrs H and the seller and they didnt think 
Barclays should have to refund the money Mrs H lost. Mrs H didnt agree with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think it would be fair to require Barclays to refund the payment Mrs H 
made to the seller. Ill explain why below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Barclays is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim of 
certain types of scams, in all but a limited number of circumstances. But customers are only 
covered by the code where they have been the victim of a scam.
The CRM code says that it doesnt apply to private civil disputes, such as where a customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services but has not received them, they are 
defective in some way or the customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier. So in order 
to determine whether Barclays should refund the money Mrs H lost under the CRM code, I 
need to consider whether she has been the victim of a scam  or, in other words, whether 
the seller set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud her.
Mrs H had made a number of payments to this seller previously. And shes said she has 
ordered other products from them before these trainers, which were delivered to her 
successfully. And I think this suggests the seller was at least trying to operate as a legitimate 
supplier, as I wouldnt expect a scammer to provide goods to a customer at all.
Mrs H has also said she was part of a group chat on a messaging app where other people 
said they had received their orders from the seller. And Barclays records suggest Mrs H told 
it the seller had told her they wouldnt be able to provide the trainers but would send her a 
refund. And I think these things both suggest the seller was operating as a legitimate 
supplier too, as I wouldnt expect a scammer to deliver orders to a number of people or to 
communicate about providing a refund after they had received a victims money.
I appreciate how Mrs H feels about this case, and that she has not received the trainers or a 
refund and so appears to have lost the money she paid. But, based on the evidence I have, I 
think its likely this was a purchase from a legitimate supplier that ultimately went wrong. I 
dont think the seller set out from the beginning with the intent to defraud Mrs H, or that she 
was the victim of a scam.
So I dont think the payment Mrs H made to the seller is covered under the CRM code, or 
that Barclays should be required to refund the money she lost.
I sympathise with the position Mrs H has found herself in, and Im in no way saying she did 
anything wrong or that she doesnt have a legitimate grievance against the seller. But, for the 
reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for 
the money she lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman