DRN-1672677
The complaint
Mr D complains that Santander Consumer (UK) Plc refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
On 8 June 2019 Mr D acquired a second-hand car costing £7,897 funded by a deposit of 
£730 and the balance with a conditional sale agreement. It was some five years old and the 
amended invoice records it had covered 30,063 miles.
Mr D says that when he inspected the car it was raining and parked by a wall and behind 
another car. After agreeing to buy it Mr D left the premises and returned later to collect it. He 
was photographed with the car. The following day he was cleaning it and noticed there was 
bump and he contacted the dealer. He car was booked in for repair. However, Mr D noticed 
more bumps and marks on the paintwork. He asked that he be allowed to reject the car, but 
this was refused.
Mr D arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. This notes the 
following: 
This vehicle has had a large amount of paintwork carried out, most of which, in my opinion, 
has been carried out to a poor standard and will likely deteriorate in the near future, which 
will be costly to rectify.
Three areas of damage are also present that have yet to be rectified and due to the paint 
damage in these areas, will also deteriorate and require rectification in the future.
In general, the bodywork on this vehicle is below what I would expect for a vehicle of this 
age and mileage, the repairs that have been carried out are to a very poor standard, which, 
in my opinion, will deteriorate in the near future."
Mr D sought help from Santander, but it took the view that he had the opportunity to inspect 
the car and referred to the photograph provided by the dealer which showed the car parked 
in the open and Mr D apparently happy with his purchase. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.  
He noted the independent report which showed the car was faulty and he didnt think a 
single photo was sufficient to show the had been properly displayed when the sale was 
made.
He thought Mr D should be
Allowed to reject the car and the car to be collected at no cost to him.
His deposit returned plus 8% simple interest.
Santander should keep a monthly payment for every 1,000 miles covered since the 
start of the agreement as fair use.
The cost of the DEKRA report to be reimbursed subject to an invoice being provided.
Due to the issues faced by Mr D and Santander refusing to review the report 
provided, £150 should be paid to compensate him.
Santander didnt agree and said the car was second hand and defects were to be expected. 
It was up to Mr D to be satisfied that it was up to standard before making the purchase.
It noted that the dealer was obliged to supply a vehicle that was of reasonably satisfactory 
quality and fit for its purpose in relation to its age, price and mileage in accordance with 
section 9(1) of the Consumer Rights Act 2015. It added that Section 9(4) CRA Act 2015 
does not cover anything which makes the goods unsatisfactory where the consumer 
examines the goods before the contract is made and which the examination ought to reveal. 
It said Mr D ought to have been aware of the bodywork prior to purchase as this would have 
been easily noticeable.
The complaint was reviewed by another investigator in an effort to get it settled and he 
established some background to the sales procedure from Mr D who reasserted the car had 
not been easily accessible in the morning when inspected and had been moved when he 
returned to collect it. He said it had been raining in the morning and dry in the afternoon. His 
view that the original suggestion by the first investigator was also rejected by Santander.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the conditional sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Santander is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for 
a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So, it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
I am satisfied that the independent report shows that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality 
even though it was second hand. There were significant paint and bodywork defects and I 
would have expected the dealer to have been aware of these. I also note that the price 
doesnt appear to reflect the poor quality of the bodywork.
The second investigator issued a detailed view and I dont think it necessary for me to repeat what he said, save to say I am in full agreement. The issue which is the key to this complaint 
is whether Mr D was aware of the defects before purchasing or whether he should have 
been aware of them. 
He has explained that when he made the purchase, he couldnt see the car very well due to 
where it had been parked and the fact it was raining. I have checked the Met Office records 
for the day and the place where the car was sold and they do confirm it was wet in the 
morning and dry in the afternoon. It was also warm and windy which explains why the road 
looks dry in the photo taken by the dealer. As such I consider Mr Ds testimony to be 
accurate.
If Mr D had identified the defects when he collected the car I suspect we would be in the 
same situation as the deal had already been done. I gather he had made the purchase in the 
morning and was collecting it in the afternoon. The fact he didnt discover the problem until 
the following day doesnt make any significant difference. I believe it more likely than not the 
car was not presented in a way that would have allowed him to carry out a satisfactory 
inspection. Once he discovered the faults he sought to reject the car and I think he should 
have been allowed to do so. So, for these reasons and those set out in the second 
investigators view issued on 9 November 2020 I consider this complaint should be upheld.
Putting things right
 Santander should allow Mr D to reject the car and compensate him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to:
Allow Mr D to reject the car and the car to be collected at no cost to him.
Return his deposit plus 8% simple interest from the date of payment until repaid.
Santander should keep a monthly payment for every 1,000 miles covered since the 
start of the agreement as fair use.
Refund the cost of the independent report subject to an invoice being provided.
Pay Mr D £150 compensation for trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman