DRN-3850473
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) did not do enough to help 
her get a refund in respect of a trip she paid for with her debit card which did not go ahead. 
Miss B is assisted in her complaint by her representative. To keep things simple, Ive 
referred to Miss B throughout this decision. 
What happened
Miss B booked a trip abroad in January 2020 with a supplier Ill call S. She paid £738 using 
her Nationwide debit card. The trip was due to take place on 24 May 2020.
On 4 May 2020 S wrote to Miss B and told her the trip could not go ahead because of the 
Covid-19 pandemic. It said it would look into transferring the booking to the following year or 
provide a credit note.
On 22 May 2020 S wrote to Miss B again, this time to tell her it had entered administration. 
Miss B said she visited a Nationwide branch for help with a refund in June 2020 but was told 
shed have to log a dispute online. She did this in early June 2020. 
In early July 2020 Miss B told Nationwide she had become hard of sight and would require it 
to adapt the way it communicated with her. Nationwide recorded that communication should 
be sent in large print. 
On 29 July 2020 Nationwide asked Miss B for more information about her dispute via text 
message. It said it required evidence of the cost and duration of the holiday. 
On 12 August 2020 Nationwide sent another text message to Miss B. This time it asked for 
evidence of when the service was due to be received, evidence Miss B had tried to resolve 
her dispute with S and a detailed description of what shed bought. 
On 2 September 2020 Nationwide said it closed Miss Bs dispute because Miss B hadnt 
responded to its requests for information. 
Miss B said she rang Nationwide in mid-September to ask what was happening with her 
dispute and was told about the evidence she needed to provide.
In October 2020 Miss B sent the requested evidence to Nationwide. But it said it was too late 
to raise a chargeback under the card scheme rules and so it declined to pay a refund to her. 
When Miss B complained to Nationwide it said it hadnt done anything wrong as it had asked 
Miss B to send additional evidence but she had provided it too late.  
Our investigator thought Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He said a case handler at 
Nationwide had confirmed it did in fact receive the evidence it asked for in time to raise a 
chargeback so it should have done so. And he said even if Nationwide didnt have this 
information, it hadnt treated Miss B fairly because it asked for it by text message when Miss 
B had told it she needed information in a large font. He thought if Miss B had received the 
request in a more suitable format shed have provided the information within the time 
required and a chargeback would likely have succeeded. 
Nationwide disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. It said its case handler had incorrectly advised the investigator that it had the 
evidence it said it needed in September 2020. It provided evidence it said supported this. It 
also said that a text message was an appropriate form of communication as Miss B had 
opted to receive email and SMS communication when it emailed her dispute in June 2020. 
And it said Miss B could have changed the font size settings on her phone so she could read 
the messages. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am looking here at the actions of Nationwide and whether it has acted fairly and reasonably 
in the way it handled Miss Bs request for help in getting her money back. This will take into 
account the circumstances of the failed trip and how the supplier has acted, but there are 
also other considerations, such as the scheme rules a bank has to follow and its own 
obligations.
In certain circumstances the chargeback process provides a way for a bank to ask for a 
payment Miss B made to be refunded. Where applicable, the bank raises a dispute with the 
supplier and effectively asks for the payment to be returned to the customer. It is good 
practice for a bank to attempt a chargeback where the right exists and there is some 
prospect of success.
In this case Nationwide did not raise a chargeback for Miss B when she sent in her dispute 
in June 2020 because it said it needed more information from her. And by the time it 
received this information it said it was too late under the card scheme rules to raise one. 
I agree with the investigator that Nationwide didnt do enough to help Miss B when it asked 
her for this information by text message. Although it appears shed confirmed via the dispute 
form she was happy to receive both text message and email, she told Nationwide after this 
that she required communication to be sent in large print. 
Nationwide said Miss B couldve changed the settings on her phone so she could read the 
messages. But I think thats putting the burden on Miss B when she had clearly asked 
Nationwide to adapt the way it communicated with her. I dont think Miss B would reasonably 
have been expecting to receive text messages from Nationwide given shed asked to receive 
communication in large print. Shes said she didnt use her phone much following her 
diagnosis. So, I can understand how she might have missed the messages Nationwide sent 
her.
By sending its requests via text message only, Nationwide ran the risk Miss B might miss it 
and lose her opportunity to raise a chargeback. Also, having been aware Miss B had asked 
for communication in large print and having received no response to its first request via text 
message, Nationwide might reasonably have sent its second request via a more suitable 
communication form where it could have sent it in the format requested by Miss B. 
Further to this I note there were additional information requirements in the card scheme rules 
which hadnt been brought to Miss Bs attention. Her dispute concerned a supplier that had 
gone into administration before fully cancelling her trip. The scheme rules set out that when this happens the issuer must first attempt to obtain reimbursement from the relevant bonding 
authority if the services are covered by one.
Miss B has said she did try to obtain reimbursement from the relevant bonding authority 
when she was made aware S had gone into administration but was referred back to her 
bank. This is consistent with other cases weve seen involving S in similar situations and 
information that was publicly available so Ive little reason to doubt what Miss B said. 
Therefore, if Miss B had been required to provide evidence of her attempts to resolve 
matters with the bonding authority, I find on balance she would have been able to do so. 
Looking at the evidence Miss B did eventually provide in October 2020 it was clear shed 
paid for a service she wasnt going to receive and wasnt going to get a refund given the 
insolvency of S. So, it seems most likely her chargeback would ultimately have succeeded 
under the services not received dispute rule if shed received better help from Nationwide 
and raised it in time. 
I find therefore that Nationwide treated Miss B unfairly in its handling of her request for a 
refund. And this cost Miss B the opportunity to recover her money via a chargeback that 
would most likely have succeeded. It is too late now for Nationwide to raise a chargeback. 
So, it should treat Miss B as if the chargeback had been successful and pay her the sum she 
lost out on of £738 plus interest.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Bs complaint. To put things right Nationwide Building 
Society must pay Miss B £738 plus 8% simple interest per year on that amount from the date 
it closed her claim on 2 September 2020 until the date of settlement*. 
*If Nationwide Building Society considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss B how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman