DRN-2067183
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M complain that Lloyds General Insurance Limited unfairly increased the cost of 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs and Mr M held a home insurance policy, which was underwritten by Lloyds. They took 
out their policy in July 2002 but Lloyds became their insurer in 2014. Mrs and Mr Ms policy 
renewed each year until 2019 when it was cancelled.
In June 2019 Mrs and Mr M received a renewal invitation from Lloyds, which quoted a 
buildings insurance premium of £199.25. They had paid £123.56 for buildings insurance the 
previous year and were unhappy with the level of increase. Mrs and Mr M said their 
circumstances hadnt changed since 2018. And, when they compared the insurance market, 
they were able to find a cheaper policy. 
Mrs and Mr M thought Lloyds had taken advantage of their loyalty and overcharged them. 
So, they cancelled their existing policy with Lloyds and started a new one elsewhere. They 
also complained to Lloyds that it had overcharged them over the years theyd been on cover. 
Lloyds investigated Mrs and Mr Ms complaint but didnt uphold it. It issued a final response 
to their complaint on 11 September 2019, which explained that the premiums theyd been 
charged had been correct for the cover it had provided. It also said there had been no 
obligation on the part of Mrs and Mr M to accept the renewal invitations it had sent them over 
the years. And it explained that its premiums had been correctly calculated in line with its 
pricing structure.
Being dissatisfied with how Lloyds had dealt with their complaint, Mrs and Mr M referred it to 
our service. But our investigator didnt recommend upholding this complaint. He explained 
that new policy prices are often discounted, and thats partly why the new policy Mrs and Mr 
M took out was quoted much cheaper. And, while he thought Mrs and Mr M hadnt engaged 
much with Lloyds at renewals, he wasnt persuaded it had taken advantage of their loyalty or 
overcharged them. But Mrs and Mr M rejected our investigators view of their complaint and 
requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to make it clear at the outset that I dont have the power to tell a business what its 
insurance should cost. I would be, in effect determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. Within my role I can look at whether Lloyds has treated Mrs 
and Mr M fairly during the time it underwrote their insurance policy. 
When considering whether Lloyds has treated Mrs and Mr M unfairly - I would need to satisfy 
myself that it had unfairly increased the cost of their policy over the years that it was insuring 
them. As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Lloyds became their insurer in 
2014. So, it wasnt responsible for the premiums Mrs and Mr M paid prior to 2014. And, while 
Mrs and Mr M held insurance prior to that date, I can only consider how Lloyds dealt with 
their renewals within this decision. Ill therefore comment on what happened from 2014 
onwards here. 
Its clear that Mrs and Mr M feel Lloyds overcharged them for the policies theyve held. They 
feel theyve been disadvantaged by auto renewing their policy each year. I appreciate that 
they feel Lloyds has taken advantage of their loyalty. But I dont think that happened here. Ill 
explain why.
Ive carefully reviewed the information Lloyds has provided our service about the increases 
in Mrs and Mr Ms premiums since 2014. Theres no evidence to show that Mrs and Mr M 
engaged with Lloyds at renewals during that time period. But Im not persuaded it took 
advantage of their lack of engagement. 
In renewal invitation documentation I can see that Lloyds advised Mrs and Mr M to check 
that the cover it was quoting for was suitable to their requirements. It also told them you 
have been with us for a number of years. You may be able to get the insurance cover you 
want at a better price if you shop around. It was fair and reasonable for Lloyds to include 
this information within its renewal invitation.
Lloyds has demonstrated that the premium increases between 2014 and 2017 were in line 
with its pricing structure and included changes in inflation and Insurance Premium Tax. Its 
said it calculated the premiums for its policies in line with the risk the customer presents and 
the cover it provides. I can see that Mrs and Mr M are unhappy that Lloyds hasnt disclosed 
information about how it calculates its premiums. I appreciate why they want to see that 
information but its commercially sensitive.  So, I cant ask Lloyds to share its calculations 
with Mrs and Mr M.
Based on the information Lloyds has provided to our service, Im satisfied it calculated Mrs 
and Mr Ms premiums as it would for any other customer in their circumstances. Its shown 
our service that from 2014 onwards Mrs and Mr M paid significantly below the target and risk 
price. This satisfies me that they werent sold more expensive policies than were necessary 
at renewal. And I, therefore, dont think Lloyds increased the price of Mrs and Mr Ms 
premiums just because they didnt contact it at renewal to try and negotiate a more 
favourable price. 
Lloyds has explained that, in June 2018, Mrs and Mr M contacted it to make changes to their 
address following a home move. This resulted in their buildings insurance premium reducing 
from £465.54 to £123.56. Im satisfied this shows that Lloyds appropriately reviewed the cost 
of Mrs and Mr Ms policy at that time.
Lloyds has shown our service evidence that, in June 2019, Mrs and Mr M made contact to 
discuss their renewal invitation. At that time, they were offered the opportunity of renewing 
their buildings insurance policy for a premium of £199.25. While that was an increase of 
almost £80 on the previous years buildings insurance premium, Lloyds has demonstrated 
that it offered to quote Mrs and Mr M for an alternative product but they declined. This 
satisfies me that Lloyds tried to engage with Mrs and Mr M about whether it could offer them 
alternative cover that better suited their requirements.
Mrs and Mr M have told our service that, following receipt of their 2019 renewal invitation, 
they were able to find cheaper insurance elsewhere. I can understand why they may think 
this means Lloyds overcharged them. But a cheaper insurance policy with another insurer 
doesnt necessarily indicate that Lloyds unfairly increased their premium in 2019. The insurance market is very competitive. Different insurers calculate premiums in different ways 
 their assessment of risk can vary too. And its not uncommon for new policies to be 
cheaper as a result of introductory offers in order to attract new customers. These discounts 
are usually removed following renewal of the policy, which then increases the cost of 
insurance in subsequent years. This could explain why Mrs and Mr M were able to obtain a 
cheaper policy elsewhere.
I acknowledge Mrs and Mr Ms strength of feeling about this complaint and the reason why 
they referred it to our service. But, in the overall circumstances of this complaint, I havent 
seen enough evidence to show that Lloyds acted unfairly. Im therefore not going to tell it to 
do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman