DRN-3558343
Complaint
Mrs S has complained that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) provided 
her with an unaffordable loan. She says that she was already £30,000.00 in debt at the time 
of the application and proportionate checks would have shown this as well as the fact that 
she shouldnt have been lent to.
Background
Tesco Bank initially provided Mrs S with a loan for £5,000.00 in February 2017. The loan had 
an APR of 3.8% and a 48-month term. This meant that the total amount to repay of 
£5,390.40, which included interest of £390.40 was due to be repaid in 48 monthly 
instalments of just over £112. Mrs S in fact settled this loan in full a few months after. 
Tesco Bank subsequently provided Mrs S with a loan for £20,000.00 in May 2018. The loan 
had an APR of 5.3% and a 120-month term. This meant that the total amount to repay of 
£25,882.80, which included interest of £5,882.80 was due to be repaid in 120 monthly 
instalments of just over £215. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that Tesco Bank didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably when providing loan 1. But he also thought that Tesco Bank 
shouldnt have provided loan 2 as reasonably and proportionate checks would have shown it 
that the loan was unaffordable for Mrs S. Mrs S didnt disagree with our investigators 
assessment. But Tesco Bank did disagree and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. 
As the parties appear to be in agreement over the position relating to loan 1, this decision is 
only looking at whether Tesco Bank acted fairly and reasonably when providing Mrs S with 
loan 2. And all reference made to loan from this point is made with reference to loan 2 which 
was provided in May 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mrs S complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mrs S complaint. These two
questions are:
1. Did Tesco Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs S would be able to repay her loan without experiencing difficulty or suffering 
significant adverse consequences?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs S wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did Tesco Bank act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Tesco Bank complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs S 
would be able to repay her loan without experiencing difficulty or suffering significant 
adverse consequences?
Tesco Bank provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required Tesco Bank to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mrs S ability to make the repayments 
under these agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Tesco Bank had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mrs S. In practice this 
meant that Tesco Bank had to ensure that making the payments to the loans wouldnt cause 
Mrs S undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Tesco Bank to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Tesco Banks checks reasonable and proportionate?
Tesco Bank says it agreed to Mrs Ss application after she provided details of her monthly 
income and some information on her expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mrs S could 
comfortably make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Mrs S has said 
she should never have been accepted for such a large loan on her income.
Ive thought about what Tesco Bank has said. But I have concerns at some of the 
information relied upon. Firstly, Tesco Bank doesnt appear to have taken any steps to have 
checked Mrs S income. Tesco Bank has said that Mrs S had an obligation to provide true 
and accurate information. I agree that prospective borrowers should provide full and 
accurate information. But I think that Tesco Bank is overlooking its own obligations here. 
CONC 5.3.1G(4) states:
(a) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
So I dont think that its fair and reasonable for Tesco Bank to suggest it was misled by          
Mrs S failure to provide true and accurate information, when it should have obtained enough 
information to have made an informed decision and it appears to have been selective in 
which CONC 5.2 obligations it chose to meet. This is especially as I dont know how its 
question regarding monthly income was even framed to Mrs S and Tesco Bank was 
advancing a significant sum over an extended term. In these circumstances, I consider 
Tesco Banks use of inflammatory language such as application fraud to be particularly 
unhelpful here.
Furthermore, I also think that the situation was exacerbated by the fact that Tesco Bank, at 
best, chose to use statistical data to validate Mrs S declaration of her living expenses. I 
accept that there is a place for the use of statistical data in income and expenditure 
assessments. However, I dont think this is in circumstances where a borrower is being lent 
such a large amount over and extended period of time and without any validation of income. 
Bearing in mind the particular circumstances of the borrowing here, I do think that Tesco 
Bank ought to have obtained further information before agreeing to provide this loan to       
Mrs S. As theres no evidence that Tesco Bank asked for, or considered, further information, 
I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks before 
providing Mrs S with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Tesco Bank that Mrs S
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Tesco Bank that Mrs S wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Mrs S has provided us with evidence of her financial circumstances at the time she applied 
for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And just 
because something shows up in the information Mrs S has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Tesco Bank mightve carried out. But in the absence of 
anything else from Tesco Bank showing what this information would have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable weight on it as an 
indication of what Mrs S financial circumstances were more likely than not to have been at 
the time. 
Ive seen the comments Tesco Bank regarding Mrs S having made her loan repayments (bar 
a temporary period where she made use of a temporary payment holiday) and this in itself 
being indicative of the loan being affordable. But I dont agree with Tesco Banks argument 
here because it was required to establish whether Mrs S could sustainably make her loan 
repayments. 
The regulator defined this as being without difficulty and without having to borrow further. 
And Mrs S simply having made her payments doesnt in itself demonstrate that she did this 
without difficulty or the need to borrow further. Indeed, I note that Tesco Bank itself has 
referred to the fact that Mrs S approached it for a further advance of £10,000.00 in May 
2019. This application might have been declined but nonetheless it might be indicative of the 
fact that Mrs S was looking to borrow further to keep up with her existing commitments. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mrs S has provided. Having done so, its clear that 
Mrs S was earning less than Tesco Bank believed her to be. And her most of her income 
was pretty much being used to meet her existing credit and living commitments. 
Furthermore, Mrs S bank statements also show that she was regularly overdrawn too. 
Ive seen that Tesco Banks response to our investigator quoted an extract from an 
ombudsmans decision regarding the use of an overdraft not in itself being an indication of 
financial difficulty. However, Im not sure of the relevance of this extract here, given Im not 
considering whether Tesco Bank should have continued providing Mrs S with an overdraft. 
What Im considering here is whether Mrs S could make her payments to this loan without 
undue difficulty or borrowing further. The fact that Mrs S was entering her overdraft (and 
therefore borrowing) each month leads me to conclude that she was always likely to be 
relying on borrowing further in order to make her loan payments.   
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mrs S was unlikely to have been able to make 
the repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, 
in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted Tesco Bank to the fact that Mrs S would not be able to sustainably 
make the repayments to this loan. 
As this is the case and given what exactly it was Tesco Bank was required to consider, Im 
satisfied that Tesco Banks decision to provide this loan to Mrs S wasnt fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
Did Tesco Bank act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs S in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. And having done so, Ive not seen anything 
to suggest that Tesco Bank acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs S in some other 
way. 
Did Mrs S lose out as a result of Tesco Bank unfairly providing him with his loan?
As Mrs S paid and shes still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan that 
she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result of what 
Tesco Bank did wrong.
So I think that Tesco Bank needs to put things right.Fair compensation  what Tesco Bank needs to do to put things right for Mrs S
Having thought about everything, Tesco Bank should put things right for Mrs S by:
Removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mrs S loan from the outset. The 
payments Mrs S made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£20,000.00 originally lent. Tesco Bank should treat any payments made should the 
new starting balance be cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments, if there 
are any, should be refunded to Mrs S;
Adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mrs S to the date of settlement;
If an outstanding balance remains on Mrs S loan once these adjustments have been 
made, Tesco Bank should contact Mrs S to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this.
If, after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance remains, Tesco 
Bank should remove any and all adverse information it may have recorded about this 
loan from Mrs S credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to take off tax from this interest. Tesco 
Bank must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs S complaint. Tesco Personal Finance 
PLC needs to put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman