DRN-3334415
The complaint
Mr S complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans lent to him 
irresponsibly and provided a loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr S took out a loan with Everyday Loans as follows:
Date taken Loan 
amountTerm Monthly 
repaymentLoan 
status
August 2019 £15,000 60 months £416.50 PAID
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and didnt think Everyday Loans should 
have provided the loan. She mainly said that the lenders checks showed that Mr S was 
having problems managing his money. And even after using the loan for debt 
consolidation  in other words, to repay some other debt  Mr S would still be spending 
such a significant proportion of his income servicing debt that this wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for him.  
Our adjudicator set out directions indicating what Everyday Loans should do to put things 
right.
Mr S accepted what our adjudicator had said but Everyday Loans disagreed with our 
adjudicators view. It mainly said that debt consolidation gave Mr S a monthly saving of 
£355.82 and left him with disposable income of more than £500. It also pointed to the fact 
that he made his payments in full and settled the loan early with no signs that the loan 
wasnt affordable.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
- including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
I've looked at the complaint afresh and having thought about everything, I agree with our 
adjudicator for broadly the same reasons and Im upholding this complaint. Heres why 
I say this.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable 
and proportionate checks should be carried out. Lenders must work out if a borrower can 
sustainably afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower 
also has to pay. This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation  a proportionate check might also 
require the lender to find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify 
the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think about whether theres any other 
reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender shouldve 
realised that the loan was likely to lead to significant adverse consequences or more 
money problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
Everyday Loans asked Mr S about his income and housing costs. It also did its own credit 
check to understand Mr Ss credit history and see what he was paying for his existing 
credit commitments. It collected some payslips from him and saw bank statements 
covering the three months or so before he applied for this loan.
Everyday Loans recorded Mr Ss average monthly pay was around £2,781 based on an 
average pay figure it worked out from looking at payslip details and saw that he also had 
income from a rental property of around £600 per month.
It allowed for Mr S needing to pay £300 per month board for his own accommodation. 
Everyday Loans also relied on nationally available statistics when thinking about Mr Ss 
likely expenditure. And, after doing a credit check to see what his existing credit 
commitments were, based on all this information, Everyday Loans said Mr S should still 
have had around £504 spare cash left each month after paying for this loan and using it to 
pay some other debt that had been costing him approximately £355 each month. So 
Everyday Loans felt he shouldve been able to afford the monthly repayment on this loan.
Our adjudicator thought that Everyday Loans had gathered enough information to have 
realised that its loan was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for Mr S. I agree. 
I say this because, despite its affordability calculation appearing to show that Mr S had 
enough disposable income each month to cover the loan monthly repayments, I think 
Everyday Loans shouldve realised this was contradicted by what it saw in the other 
information it had gathered.
Everyday Loans saw that Mr S was already very substantially reliant on credit. He owed 
more than £19,000 on just two of his credit cards  both were close to their limit and he had 
been over the account limit on one of those cards within the previous three months. He had 
a similar amount of debt tied up in loans and instalment credit  bringing his total 
indebtedness to more than £42,000. I think this looked like a lot of unsecured debt for 
someone in Mr Ss financial situation  especially bearing in mind that he was living in 
another household paying only a relatively small amount of board. 
As well as this, Everyday Loans saw on Mr Ss bank statements, provided during the 
application process and covering the period 4th June  22nd August 2019, that Mr S was 
frequently overdrawn (often by a four figure amount), paying arranged overdraft fees each 
month and other bank charges. It looked like a number of direct debits were also reversed 
when he went over the arranged account limit. I dont think Everyday Loans properly took 
into account what all the information it had gathered showed about Mr Ss overall financial 
situation and the likelihood of him being able to pay its loan in a sustainable manner.I think Everyday Loans shouldve realised that Mr S was already over-reliant on taking out 
expensive credit and I think it shouldve been apparent that Mr S probably didnt have the 
amount of disposable income that Everyday Loans calculated. 
His debt repayments were costing him around £1,800 each month, which was a large 
portion of his salary. Even with the planned debt consolidation Mr S would be paying more 
per month  the debts he planned to repay were costing him around £355 as Everyday 
Loans has mentioned, but his new monthly repayments for this loan cost more. If I assume 
Mr Ss net income comprised his pay plus his rental income minus his own boarding costs, 
by my reckoning, Mr S was signing up to pay an amount effectively approaching half that 
net income. Im also concerned that, realistically, there was some risk that Mr S couldnt 
rely with certainty on being able to let out his own house for the whole of the loan term 
without any break in rental income during periods when the property might be untenanted 
or it was being re-let. Overall, I think Everyday Loans saw enough to have realised it would 
likely be a struggle for Mr S to repay this loan with this level of income committed just to 
repaying debt  especially bearing in mind the 60 month loan term.
I've taken into account that Everyday Loans understood that the loan was partly intended 
for debt consolidation. But I think the scale of his overall debt compared to the much lesser 
value of the loan would suggest that Mr S would likely remain in serious financial trouble 
regardless. And, as mentioned above, it was in any event unrealistic to expect Mr S to be 
able to commit to paying such a significant level of income towards debt repayments over 
the five year loan term. 
The fact that Mr S repaid the loan early doesnt mean that he was able to do so in a way 
that was sustainable. 
So thinking about all the information Everyday Loans had gathered, I cant reasonably say 
that it made a fair lending decision based on the information it had gathered. I dont think 
Everyday Loans was able to safely conclude that its loan would be sustainably affordable 
for Mr S. So it shouldnt have provided it and Everyday Loans needs to put things right.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Everyday Loans should pay any additional redress. 
Mr S hasnt commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think 
Everyday Loans acted unfairly towards Mr S in any other way. So Im not awarding any 
additional redress. And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr S to repay the capital amount 
that he borrowed because he had the benefit of that lending - but he shouldnt repay any 
more than this. So I've set out below what Everyday Loans should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Everyday Loans has confirmed Mr S made payments in full until he settled the loan early, so 
it should do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr S received as a result of having been given 
the loan. The repayments Mr S should be deducted from this amount.
If this results in Mr S having paid more than he received, then any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated 
from the date the overpayments were made until the date of settlement).
Whilst its fair that Mr Ss credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by the decision to lend this loan. So 
Everyday Loans should remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ss 
credit file regarding the loan.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax has been 
deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take the steps I've set out above to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman