DRN-3124357
The complaint
Mrs M complains that UK Credit Limited (UKCL) shouldnt have accepted her as a
guarantor on a loan.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs M agreed to stand as a guarantor on a loan of £6,000 for Ms T, a friend. 
The loan was to be repaid over 60 months with a monthly repayment of £231.63. Mrs M said 
she wanted to help her friend but didnt think shed need to cover any of the repayments. But 
Ms T began to have difficulty in maintaining her payments.
In April 2020, UKCL told Mrs M that there were arrears on the loan account. But Ms T went 
on to make part payments and Mrs M wasnt asked to step in to make any repayments 
towards the loan. But in February 2021, UKCL again told Mrs M that there were arrears on 
the account. Mrs M hasnt been asked to step in to make any repayments, but she doesnt 
think she should have been added as a guarantor for the loan. Mrs M said UKCL hadnt 
carried out proper checks when theyd agreed to her being the guarantor as she said she 
couldnt make the repayments as shed financial commitments of her own. She complained 
to UKCL.
UKCL said theyd carried out identification, income and credit file checks. Theyd verified Mrs 
Ms income and her credit file showed she was managing her finances well. They also 
confirmed there was a second household income and determined the share of outgoing 
responsibilities. They undertook an income and expenditure assessment with Mrs M. And 
this showed she would have a disposable income of £148.32 if shed to step in to make the 
monthly loan repayment. They said Mrs M, during a security call, listened to a recording that 
explained her obligations and responsibilities as a guarantor. And she confirmed she 
understood and was happy to be a guarantor for the loan.
 
Mrs M wasnt happy with UKCLs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think UKCL had done anything wrong in
allowing Mrs M to act as a guarantor on the loan. Mrs M disagreed and asked for the
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
UKCL had responsibility for ensuring that the loan repayments would be affordable and
sustainable for Mrs M before agreeing that she could be the guarantor for it. This meant that  
UKCL needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mrs M 
could afford to make all the loan payments in the event she had to. 
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. Theres no set list for what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders to consider the specific 
circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check 
will generally depend on several factors such as financial history, current situation and 
whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should 
also be given to the amount, type and cost of credit theyre guaranteeing.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. Consideration should be given to the amount, type and cost of 
credit thats being applied for. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
So, Ive considered whether UKCL did what it needed to before agreeing to Mrs M being a 
guarantor for the loan.
UKCL said they asked Mrs M about her income and expenditure. Mrs M said shed an 
average monthly salary of £1,000, shed monthly benefit of £200, and child benefit. 
Outgoings for rent, council tax, utilities, mobile phone, a mail order account, food, and other 
regular outgoings such as insurance, pet costs, clothing, alcohol and cigarettes were 
discussed. And Mrs M said shed didnt gamble. 
I can see UKCL verified Mrs Ms salary by reviewing a payslip which showed Mrs Ms salary 
to be £1,157. But UKCL calculated Mrs Ms average salary on the year to date figure 
showing on the payslip - £1120.95. They used this in their credit assessment,  Mrs Ms 
benefit income wasnt included.
In total UKCL calculated Mrs Ms regular outgoings to be £721.04 on the information Mrs M 
gave them. And added a further £19.96 calculated from the balance showing on her credit 
file for the mail order account  bringing her total outgoings to £741. This would leave Mrs M  
£379.95, which would be reduced, if she was required to cover the repayments, by the loan 
repayment of  £231.63. UKCL considered Mrs M had £148.32 disposable income and 
deemed it would be affordable for Mrs M and so agreed to her guaranteeing the loan.
Having listened to the call I think Mrs M and UKCL had a detailed income and expenditure 
assessment call. In this call the agent went through a long list of questions regarding Mrs 
Ms regular outgoings, and Mrs M answers them Im persuaded without any hesitation or 
concern. The agent I think takes care to ensure Mrs M fully understood her obligations and 
whether there was any foreseeable change that could impact her financially. They went 
through Mrs Ms credit file, pointing out a missed payment and asking the cause of this. Mrs 
M was clear in that this was simply an oversight on her part.
I havent seen any evidence that would appear to contradict any of the information UKCL 
had, and so Im persuaded it was reasonable for UKCL to rely on it. 
So for these reasons, Im satisfied UKCL s checks were proportionate in this instance. And 
as these showed the repayments would be affordable to Mrs M should she be required to 
make them, Im satisfied UKCLs decision to lend was reasonable.I havent seen any evidence that Mrs M was coerced into agreeing to be the guarantor to  
the loan. And during the call her obligations and responsibilities as a guarantor are outlined 
to her. And Mrs M  agrees to them. 
I can see UKCL are taking steps to help the borrower in keeping to her repayments. Mrs M 
hasnt had to step in to make any repayments so far. And  UKCL has kept her informed of 
any concerns they have about the borrower being unable to maintain her commitments.
Mrs M has said her circumstances have changed since her initial agreement. I can see 
UKCL are trying to work with Mrs M to get a better understanding of her current financial 
situation. And I would expect UKCL to treat Mrs M with forbearance and due consideration 
with her financial situation in accordance with the Consumer Credit Sourcebook - CONC 7.3 
which provides a number of ways UKCL can help Mrs M.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman