DRN-2131018
The complaint
Mr B complains that Virgin Money plc trading as Virgin Money twice failed to close his credit
card account when he asked it to.
What happened
Mr B told us he asked Virgin to close his credit card account, but it didnt, and some
subscription purchases went through on the card. He asked Virgin again to close it, and
once he made a payment which covered most of the subscription purchases on the account,
it agreed to do so.
Virgin said it was sorry it hadnt closed the card account already. It would refund any fees
and interest charged, and pay some compensation onto the card. That would clear the 
remaining small debt, then Virgin would pay the balance to Mr Bs current account.
But Virgin didnt close the account the second time either. More transactions went through.
Our investigator thought Virgin should close the account. He said that because he thought it
was in credit. But Virgin said no, Mr Bs account had been in credit, but then Mr B made a
purchase for £317.99. Virgin said he had to pay for that before it would close the account.
Mr B said that any transactions made after hed asked Virgin to close the account were
transactions without his consent, and Virgin needed to reverse them, then close his account.
Our investigator said that if Mr B had made transactions on the card, then Virgin didnt need
to pay for those. Mr B would need to pay for them before Virgin could close his card account.
Mr B said he had paid the outstanding balance, minus the charges Virgin had applied, and
he wanted the account to be closed now.
Virgin made an offer to put an interest waiver on Mr Bs account, and close it. Mr B said that
would be acceptable if Virgin waived any interest and charges placed on the account since
the last failure to close the account. Virgin said no.
Mr B said he wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to
me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Virgin accepts that it failed to close Mr Bs account the first time he asked it to. It paid 
him £75 in compensation to make up for that. I think that provides a fair outcome to 
this part of Mr Bs complaint.
Virgin had agreed to close the account once it was in credit again. But Virgin didnt 
do that. The card was then used. That doesnt necessarily mean that Mr B used the 
physical card himself. The card may have been used to pay for an item as part of a 
recurring charge.
Mr B initially said he wouldnt pay for this. I think he did have either to pay for this
transaction, or to get this refunded onto his card. So Im glad to see he has now paid.
I have also checked that no late payments in this case have been reported to credit
reference agencies. Virgin confirms they havent.
But Mr B has been put to some trouble by this complaint. This seems to be as a 
result of confusion at Virgin. I think that all of this couldve been avoided if Virgin had 
closed his account promptly, the second time it agreed to do so.
Virgin told us the account is closed. But, for the avoidance of any doubt, Ill require 
that Virgin should now close Mr Bs account, if it hasnt done so already. And 
because of the trouble and upset that this has caused Mr B, I think Virgin should pay 
him £100 in compensation. I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides accepted the decision, and Virgin confirmed again that the account is now closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. It remains part of my award that Virgin must close this account, 
although Virgin has told us its already complied with this.
My final decision
My final decision is Virgin Money plc trading as Virgin Money must close Mr Bs account, if it 
hasnt done so already, and pay Mr B £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman