DRN-3153787
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy because Monzo Bank Ltd did not reimburse the money he transferred to a 
fraudster.  
background
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint, so I wont repeat them all 
here. But briefly, both parties accept that in June 2020, Mr W was contacted by a fraudster 
pretending to be from HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). Mr W was told by the fraudster that 
he was being accused of tax fraud and that he owed tax totalling £1,900 as well as a number 
of additional charges to covers aspects such as court fees and solicitor costs. Mr W was told 
that if he didnt pay the charges, HMRC would cancel his passport, driving licence and close 
his bank accounts. He was also told the police had a warrant for his arrest. Mr W explains he 
was shocked and panicked so made the payments as requested. Mr W was told payments 
needed to be made to a number of different departments and so was given different payee 
details for different charges. Mr W made the following payments towards the scam:
payee number payment value
payee 1 £992.00
payee 1 £997.00
payee 2 £995.00
payee 1 £999.00
payee 1 £993.00
payee 3 £996.00
payee 1 £911.00
payee 4 £1,975.00
payee 1 £815.00
Mr W has said he hadnt owed tax before and didnt know until after the scam that HMRC 
usually contacted individuals by letter. He said the fraudster told him that he was supposed 
to have completed tax returns and that he believed them. He therefore thought it was 
plausible that the amount of tax hed been paying was incorrect. Mr W says the fraudster 
also directed him to the civil division page of the government website which showed the 
phone number as matching the one he was being called from. Mr W says he was unaware 
that fraudsters could spoof telephone numbers, so was convinced by this that the call he 
received was genuine.
When making the payments, Mr W says he was asked by his banking app what the 
payments were for. Mr W says one of the options was paying HMRC, so he questioned with 
the fraudster whether he should choose this option. The fraudster told him that as the 
payments were being made to various different departments, he should instead choose the 
something else option.
Looking back at the call from the fraudster, Mr W now realises the fraudster didnt provide 
him with any of his personal details to prove their legitimacy. Mr W says he didnt question 
with the fraudster what information of his they held as he didnt have concerns about the 
legitimacy of the call for the reasons noted above.
Following the call, Mr W told his mother what had happened. The next day, while with his 
mother, Mr W received another call from the scammer but his mother told him to end the 
call. Realising hed been the victim of a scam, Mr W contacted Monzo that day to raise a 
fraud claim.
Monzo has committed to follow the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which requires firms to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. Monzo says one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo has said Mr W made the payment without having a reasonable basis for believing it 
was a genuine payment. Monzo considers Mr W didnt do enough to verify it was actually the 
HMRC he was speaking to on the phone, or to check what he was paying for.
Monzo has also said it provided a warning to Mr W when he made the payments to the 
fraudster. Monzo arent relying on this warning as a reason to not reimburse Mr W, but has 
said it does consider the warning to be effective. Monzo said when asked what the payments 
were for, Mr W chose the something else option. The warning he then received read:
stop, dont pay
Its very likely this is a scam
Remember:
If a deal seems too good to be true, it probably is
The name and phone number of legitimate companies can be spoofed or faked
Check who youre paying
Look for official contact details, and if youre not totally confident, please dont pay. You 
might not be able to get your money back
Monzo did give Mr W £30 compensation to acknowledge the time it took to response to his 
initial claim.
I am also mindful that when Mr W made these payments, Monzo should fairly and 
reasonably also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). And in 
some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional steps, 
or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make 
a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from 
fraud. 
Mr W feels he should be refunded and so has referred his complaint to us. An investigator 
looked into Mr Ws complaint and thought Mr W did have a reasonable basis for believing 
these were legitimate payments. At the time of issuing her view, Monzo had provided a 
different, incorrect warning for consideration, which didnt include reference to number 
spoofing. As Monzo disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findingsIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr W 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case. 
Monzo should in any event have intervened on the fourth payment Mr W made  as 
by this time Mr W had already made three payments to two new payees set up that 
day and this was to be the third payment to the same individual. This was unusual 
behavior for Mr Ws account and if Monzo had intervened, I am satisfied the fraud 
would have come to light and the loss prevented.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr W 
lost.
The money was taken from Mr Ws current account. It is not clear how Mr W would 
have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so Monzo 
should also pay:
o8% simple interest on the money it shouldve refunded for the first three 
payments Mr W made, from the date Monzo decided not to refund Mr W 
under the CRM Code to the date of payment.
o8% simple interest on the money it shouldve refunded for the fourth payment 
onward that Mr W made, from the date of loss (10 June 2020) to the date of 
payment. 
I have carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Mr W had a reasonable 
basis for believing the transactions to be genuine. But they do not persuade me to reach a 
different view.  In particular I am not persuaded that Mr W failed to take the requisite level of 
care required for Monzo to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the CRM Code.
Im satisfied Monzo has not shown that Mr W lacked a reasonable basis of belief because:
Mr W has expressed he was shocked and panicked by the call and while hes 
acknowledged with hindsight that the fraudsters didnt have his personal details, hes 
said the wording they used at the time made the call feel legitimate. Were aware that 
the entire basis of these scams is to place immense pressure on the victims and to 
not give them the time or space to think clearly, which is why this has proven to be 
such a common scam. I can understand why, in the circumstances he found himself 
in, Mr W would be thinking less clearly and would believe what he was being told.
Mr W has explained hes had no previous dealings with HMRC so has only become 
aware of their usual methods of contact since the scam happened. Having had no 
prior experience, I think its reasonable that Mr W believed it was HMRC on the 
phone and the scammers allegations that Mr W shouldve completed annual tax 
returns.
Mr W was directed to a section of the governments website where the number he 
had been called on was listed. Mr W has said this persuaded him that the call was 
genuine. Having questioned Mr W about the warning Monzo provided, Mr W has said 
he doesnt recall seeing the warning and appeared genuinely surprised when told that it included guidance on spoofed telephone numbers. Monzo has acknowledged 
that the warning wasnt effective under the standards of the Code and having 
considered it carefully, while this part of the warning was relevant to the scam Mr W 
had fallen victim for, other parts of it werent. Having thought about the warning 
holistically in the pressured circumstances Mr W was in, while I accept this is a finely 
balanced case, I dont think the warning was impactful enough to consider that Mr W 
acted unreasonably by not acting upon it. Ive also considered the reasons Mr W was 
given by the scammer for choosing the something else payment option and dont 
think these were so unrealistic that they shouldve rocked Mr Ws basis for belief.
Monzo has said that on the eighth payment made to the fraudster, Mr W wouldve 
been presented with a Confirmation of Payee screen which advised him that the 
details hed entered for the payee didnt match those on the account (the account 
was a business account, whereas hed entered it was a personal account). For all 
other payments, Confirmation of Payee wasnt available. Mr W had been told that he 
was making payments to different HMRC departments, so I dont think that it 
wouldve impacted his reasoning to be advised that the account he was paying was a 
business account. Ive also considered that by this point, Mr W had already made 
seven successful payments towards the scam without known issues.
So in summary, Im not persuaded that Monzo has shown that Mr W lacked a reasonable 
basis of belief for making the transactions in question. I appreciate that the case is finely 
balanced, but overall, Im persuaded that Mr W acted reasonably considering the pressured 
environment he found himself in.  Monzo should therefore refund the funds Mr W lost to the 
fraudster.  final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint against 
Monzo Bank Ltd. I require Monzo Bank Ltd to:
Refund Mr W the £9,673 he lost to the scam
For the first three payments Mr W made, pay 8% simple interest, from the date 
Monzo declined Mr Ws claim under the CRM code to the date of settlement
For the fourth payment to the ninth, pay 8% simple interest from the date the 
payments were made (10 June 2020) to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2022.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman