DRN-4248191
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to protect her when she was 
the victim of a crypto investment scam.
Mrs C is being supported by a representative, but for ease, Ill refer to Mrs C throughout 
this decision. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, and so Ill only refer to 
some key events here.
Mrs C said she made an online enquiry, in July 2022, with a company (who Ill refer to here 
as I) about investing in crypto. Shed seen an advert endorsed by Martin Lewis and said 
this gave her reassurance the investment was genuine. 
Mrs C said she was impressed with the professional appearance of Is website. She said 
she allowed remote access software to be installed on her device  having been led to 
believe this was to enable her to set up a trading account.  
On 2 August 2022 Mrs C made a payment of £100 from her Santander account to a 
legitimate crypto exchange platform in her name (who Ill refer to as B). The payment was 
made via Bs payment processing company (S). Mrs C said she could see the £100 
appear on her trading platform. 
Mrs C said she was then contacted by another company (who Ill refer to as W)  and 
introduced to who she was told would be her account manager. Mrs C said she was under 
the impression I and W were part of the same organisation and any questions she asked 
of her account manager were quickly responded to in a professional and informative way. 
On 3 August 2022 Mrs C received a return on the investment of £120. She then transferred 
£10,000 from her Santander account to her account with B via S. Santander blocked this 
payment and spoke to Mrs C. Happy with her responses, the payment was released. 
On 9 August 2022 Mrs C transferred two payments to B via S. The first was for £24,500 
and the second was for £9,950. These payments were largely funded by loans. Neither 
payment was blocked by Santander. 
On 10 and 11 August 2022 Mrs C attempted to make several more payments to her 
account with B via S. These were all declined by Santander and it blocked Mrs Cs 
account given concerns it had that she was potentially the victim of scam. Mrs C had 
further communication with Santander over the next few weeks  both over the telephone 
and in branch. She wanted the blocks on her account removed so she could make further 
payments towards the investment. 
On 6 September 2022 Santander invoked the banking protocol after which Mrs C raised a 
fraud claim. 
Santander thought it had done enough to protect Mrs C and, as shed authorised payments 
to an account in her own name (B), it said it wasnt responsible for her loss. Santander 
added that it had provided extensive warnings to Mrs C during several conversations with 
her, but that shed provided misleading answers to enable the payments to be processed. 
And that it was only once the banking protocol was invoked that Mrs C accepted shed 
been the victim of a scam.
Unhappy with Santanders response, Mrs C referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. She didnt think Santander had done enough to protect her  particularly 
given the size of the payments. She said she wasnt asked probing enough questions by 
Santander when it spoke to her on 3 August 2022 and that it had obvious concerns, yet still 
let the payments be processed. 
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He believed 
Santander acted reasonably in trying to protect Mrs C. And so, he didnt find Santander 
responsible for Mrs Cs loss.  
Mrs C didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsman to issue a final decision. She said 
Santanders questioning didnt go far enough during the 3 August 2022 telephone call and it 
shouldve acted on the information she gave and invoked the banking protocol at that point. 
Mrs C suggested that the liability for her loss be split equally between her and Santander. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons 
as our Investigator. I know this is not the answer Mrs C was hoping for and so this will 
come as a disappointment. 
Im really sorry to hear Mrs Cs been the victim of a scam and has lost money as a 
result. I can understand why shed want to do all she can to recover the money she lost. 
But I need to decide whether Santander can fairly and reasonably be held responsible 
for Mrs Cs loss. Overall, Ive decided that it cant be. Ill explain why.
I should first point out that Santander had an obligation to protect Mrs C from financial 
harm, irrespective of what happened to the money after it left her Santander account. 
And so, Im considering Mrs Cs complaint about Santander on that basis. 
I accept the transactions Mrs C made were authorised payments, even though she was 
the victim of a sophisticated crypto investment scam. So, although she didnt intend the 
money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mrs C is presumed liable for the loss in the first 
instance. 
However, taking into account what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably: 
 Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
 Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which financial institutions are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.  In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
So, taking all of this into account, I need to decide if Santander acted fairly and reasonably 
in its dealings with Mrs C when she made the payments, specifically whether it shouldve 
done more than it did before processing the payments  and if it had, would that have 
made a difference. 
Where there is interaction between a bank and its customer in relation to a payment, 
wed expect the bank to take this opportunity to find out more about the nature of that 
payment.
With that in mind, Ive considered very carefully the interaction Santander had with 
Mrs C about the £10,000 payment made on 3 August 2022. And for context, Ive also 
thought about the further interactions she had after those payments were made, up to 
the point the banking protocol was invoked, and the scam was uncovered. Ive also 
considered some of the wider circumstances surrounding the scam.
During the 3 August 2022 telephone call Mrs C confirmed shed set up the account with B 
and that she was buying Bitcoin. Mrs C also told Santander that the £100 shed paid on 
2 August 2022 was showing in her account with B. And that she had full access to that 
account  having recently successfully withdrawn £120. 
Santander asked Mrs C on two occasions if there was any broker or other third party 
involved. Mrs C said no and I know what Im doing. She said she understood how crypto 
investments worked and had done her research and was confident with it. 
Santander also asked Mrs C if anyone had to set up accounts for her by taking over her 
devices  to which she replied, no. And she said she didnt think £10,000 was too high for 
a first deposit, nor had she been promised high returns that looked too good to be true.  
Ive thought carefully about whether Santander asked the right questions during its 
interaction with Mrs C on 3 August 2022 to fully understand the nature of the transaction 
she was trying to make. And I do think it did enough. 
Firstly, I accept that at times Santander spoke in more general terms about the risks 
related to crypto investment scams  but some of that did apply to Mrs C. In particular, 
whether a third party was involved, and accounts being set up (or helped to be set up) by 
the scammer.  But despite Santanders clear warnings to Mrs C about the risks involved in 
crypto investments  she didnt divulge the origin of the investment, who was advising her 
(including the fact she had an account manager), or that remote access software had 
been used. So, Santander had no reason to delve further on those points. 
Secondly, there was no obvious concerning pattern of payments at this point. Santander 
did ask Mrs C whether she was conformable making an initial investment of £10,000  to 
which she said she was. I dont think Santander wouldve had reason at that time to 
suspect Mrs C was looking to make more large payments (a clear hallmark of an 
investment scam), as she made no suggestion in her responses to Santander this was to 
be the case. 
Thirdly, Mrs C sounded confident in the telephone call  not hesitating before she 
answered the questions and maintaining she knew what she was doing. And so, I cant say 
Santander acted unreasonably by not challenging what it was being told by Mrs C in response to the questions it was asking. Nor did it have a reasonable basis to believe 
Mrs C was being coached on what to say by a scammer. And so, I think the 3 August 2022 
telephone call went far enough in the circumstances. 
Arguably, Santander shouldve intervened in the next two payments made by Mrs C on 
9 August 2022 (£24,500 and (£9,950). And Ive thought about whether any more probing 
by Santander at the time of those payments wouldve made a difference. As I go on to 
explain, I dont think it wouldve.
I can tell from the conversation between Mrs C and Santander on 3 August 2022 that she 
was completely caught up in the scam  so much so that she was prepared to provide 
inaccurate information to ensure the payment was processed. 
As Ive said above, she spoke with confidence during that telephone call about what she 
was doing and was clearly very keen for the payment to be processed without further 
delay. I therefore think it likely, on balance, Mrs C wouldve maintained that air of 
confidence and continued to provide inaccurate information to Santander if it had spoken 
to her in relation to the 9 August 2022 payments. 
My thoughts here are further reinforced when considering what happened when Mrs C 
tried to make further payments on 10 and 11 August 2022  and the interactions she had 
with Santander. 
Mrs C spoke to Santander on 10 August 2022 when it explicitly told her it thought she 
was falling victim to a scam. Yet Mrs C maintained she knew what she was doing and 
that there was no third-party involvement. And she expressed some annoyance that her 
payments were being blocked, reassuring Santander she was able to make withdrawals 
on the investment. 
During further interactions between Mrs C and Santander, concerns were raised about 
the loans shed taken out and how many banks, including Santander, didnt support 
payments direct to B over concerns relating to crypto investment scams, and that B 
wasnt regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Yet Mrs C maintained she 
knew what she was doing. 
Mrs C did divulge the fact shed been enticed into investing because it was endorsed by 
Martin Lewis  at which point Santander clearly told her that this was a red flag. Yet 
Mrs C maintained the legitimacy of the investment. She said shed enough funds to cover 
any money lost through the investment and pay back the loans. And she empathised, on 
more than one occasion, that there was no third party involved. Mrs C also contacted 
Santander on several occasions to chase the block on her account being removed so she 
could make the payments towards the investment. 
This prolonged interaction between Mrs C and Santander gave Mrs C time to reflect on 
the clear warnings Santander were giving  and the accuracy and significance of the 
answers she was providing. But she continued to provide misleading information. Mrs C 
was also strongly advised by Santander to check the FCA register. If she had, she 
wouldve seen an FCA warning about W posted on 8 August 2022. 
Mrs C also transferred £35,000 as part of the investment from an account she held with 
another business. That transfer was made towards the end of August 2022  whilst her 
account with Santander was blocked due to the serious concerns it had that Mrs C was 
the victim of a scam. This further demonstrates how convinced Mrs C was that the 
investment was genuine. Even when Mrs C attended branch on 6 September 2022, she still seemed convinced the 
investment wasnt a scam  and its only at the point the banking protocol was invoked 
that she realised the true extent of the unfortunate situation shed found herself in. 
Taking everything into account, I dont disagree that Mrs C has been the victim of a 
sophisticated crypto investment scam. But I think Santander did enough to try and protect 
her, and I dont think any further reasonable action from Santander during the 3 August 
2022 telephone call  or in relation to the 9 August 2022 payments - would likely have 
made a difference. Furthermore, Santanders actions post the disputed transactions 
prevented Mrs C from losing even more money as part of the scam.  
With all that in mind, I dont think its fair or reasonable to hold Santander accountable for 
Mrs Cs loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman