DRN-3411587
The complaint
Mrs P complains that the compensation offer of £200 made by Barclays Bank UK PLC in 
respect of delays when transferring her ISA from another financial services provider is 
inadequate. She feels the distress, considerable inconvenience and upset she was caused 
whilst the matter was unresolved warrants a payment of significantly more compensation. 
What happened
On 17 February 2021, Mrs P requested Barclays to transfer her ISA from another financial 
services provider to Barclays Smart Investor, an online execution-only investment platform 
Barclays offered to its current account customers with access to a smartphone. 
As a result of delays, which Barclays said were mainly due to the limitations with Barclays 
and the other financial services providers platforms, the transfer didnt fully complete until 
almost five months later on 13 July 2021.
When Mrs P complained to Barclays about how long the transfer had taken, Barclays upheld 
her complaint. It said it had had tried at every stage to complete the request quickly but also 
acknowledged that Mrs P had been inconvenienced by the delay and the amount of contact 
she had to engage in. Barclays said this delay wasnt a normal timescale and apologised. It 
offered to pay Mrs P £200 for inconvenience this may have caused. 
Mrs P didn't feel £200 went far enough to resolve things and so she brought her complaint to 
us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  
Our investigator was sympathetic but felt that the £200 redress offered by Barclays was fair 
and reasonable. So he didnt recommend that Barclays needed to do anything more.
Barclays agreed with our investigators view and mentioned it had also offered to send Mrs P 
a hamper and wine as a gesture of goodwill which it had hoped would go towards helping to 
restore her faith in its service. 
Mrs P disagreed with our investigator. She feels that the redress offered is not fair or 
reasonable and in brief summary, her main concerns are that:
the process was delayed mostly due to Barclays using a third party for its transfer. 
This meant Mrs P was prevented from speaking directly to the transfer team or the 
transfer team speaking directly to the other financial services provider, until a 
complaint had been raised and escalated.
Dealing with this matter took up a lot of time and energy which impacted on Mrs P 
being able to devote time to running her business. 
Mrs P doesnt feel Barclays has properly acknowledged or explained its part in the 
delays  and whilst Mrs P agrees that Barclays was not responsible for all the delays 
she feels the problem was exacerbated by Barclays effectively having advertised for 
and taken on more work than it could handle. 
Mrs P has requested an ombudsman referral so the complaint comes to me to decide 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As far as I can see, both parties are broadly agreed on the background facts and timeline of 
events. Barclays has upheld Mrs Ps complaint and agreed things took too long to complete. 
So, I will concentrate on the question of fair redress, which is Mrs Ps main concern now and 
the reason she has requested an ombudsman referral.
It seems to be common ground between the parties that not all the delays were Barclays 
fault. Barclays has said that the other financial services provider could only accept full 
transfer requests whilst Barclays could not accept two of the assets requested. But I can 
appreciate why the delays and the lack of communication were a significant worry for Mrs P, 
keeping in mind how long it took for Barclays to complete the transfer. And I think it's fair to 
say Barclays did miss some opportunities to get things done more quickly. 
Mrs P has mentioned that when Barclays posted revised transfer request forms to the other 
financial services provider on 21 April 2021 (the third transfer attempt) Barclays omitted to 
include information she could have provided if asked. Although Barclays said it sent accurate 
information based on what Mrs P had provided, I think Mrs P makes a fair point. As the 
financial business making the transfer request, I think the onus was on Barclays to ensure it 
provided the information required to facilitate the transfer. 
But I think it's also fair to say that although Barclays aims to complete ISA transfers within 
30 days, Mrs Ps transfer was complex from the outset, including as it did varying types of 
assets, not all of which were normally acceptable to Barclays. Mrs P had provided some 
incorrect information to Barclays when she first requested the transfer. I dont think that 
contributed significantly to the overall time this matter took to complete but it resulted in the 
other financial services provider rejecting the first transfer request on 15 March 2021. So the 
process had to start over effectively at that point. 
Barclays sent a revised request on 9 April 2021 but the other financial services provider had 
different transfer terms to Barclays and required two separate transfer request forms  
Barclays arranged this and engaged with the other financial services provider throughout 
April and into May 2021. 
Things were not straightforward  it seems Mrs P held sub-accounts within her account as 
well as untradeable stocks. It looks like at one point Mrs P put through an incorrect request 
online (there was some confusion about whether cash or stock was being transferred). 
Mrs P told Barclays at one stage that she was considering whether to instruct the other 
financial services provider to sell a fund that couldnt be transferred and move it to another 
fund and transfer to Barclays - or whether to sell and move cash. She needed to discuss 
options with the other financial services provider. I mention this to illustrate that the timescale 
was not wholly down to service failings on Barclays part. I think the complicated nature of 
the transfers goes a long way towards explaining why this all took so long to complete. 
Mrs P was required to send revised completed transfer requests for both of the accounts 
Mrs P wanted to transfer. Barclays said it had sent both forms (on 7 May and 10 May 
respectively). The paperwork for one of the accounts then seems to have gone missing. Barclays told us it resubmitted the missing paperwork on 26 May. Mrs P has mentioned 
particular concern about Barclays part in the delay around this time. As part of my overall 
review I have looked through detailed information Barclays has provided from its records 
showing the steps logged in respect of each of the transfers. This includes five cancelled 
transfers which gives me an insight into why things took so long to sort out. I can see that 
Barclays was actively engaged in trying to progress outstanding issues.
By 16 June, one of the accounts was successfully transferred. The outstanding transfer 
stalled again on 18 June when the other financial services provider rejected one of the 
transfer requests. Following this, Barclays said that exceptionally, due to the ongoing 
rejections from the other financial services provider, it took steps to resolve the matter by 
agreeing to accept the problematic assets that had caused much of the delay and were 
holding up the transfer being finalised. 
This helps explain why it took until 13 July 2021 until the transfer completed in full. But I think 
it was always unlikely, given what was involved in carrying out Mrs Ps particular transfer 
instructions, that everything could have been completed in 30 days. And much of this 
information was not communicated to Mrs P at the time so she was mostly in the dark about 
what was happening throughout this period and understandably concerned about delays. 
I dont doubt this was all very frustrating and stressful for Mrs P.
When thinking about what Barclays is fairly and reasonably required to do to put things right, 
I must keep in mind that I havent identified any financial loss. Although Mrs P mentioned the 
impact on her business whilst the transfer was delayed, I havent seen enough to show that 
Mrs P has suffered any direct financial loss.  
Ive carefully considered what is fair and reasonable compensation for Mrs P given the upset 
and distress she described as both emotional and practical which she experienced as a 
result of the service failings Barclays was responsible for. 
Barclays cant fairly be blamed for all the delay. And the fact that Barclays used a third party 
to help manage its transfer isnt a reason for me to uphold this complaint  the way a 
financial business sets up its business processes is beyond my remit as an ombudsman. But 
I find that Mrs P was reasonably entitled to think Barclays could have done more to keep on 
top of things, as it has admitted. Also, bearing in mind it was arguably the lead party 
responsible for managing the transfer, I think Barclays might have enabled things to be 
sorted out sooner had it been more proactive and handled the transfer more effectively at its 
end. It could, for example, have chased some things sooner when issues cropped up. And 
had Barclays kept Mrs P better updated on progress so she hadnt been left feeling it was up 
to her to chase for information, I think this would have gone a long way towards addressing 
some of her concerns about what happened.
Looked at overall, I think that Barclays offer of £200 does adequately reflect what I would 
consider fair compensation to reflect the significant distress and inconvenience it caused 
Mrs P, resulting from failures on its part that led to her transfer request not being processed 
within a reasonable timescale. So Im not directing Barclays to make any additional payment 
beyond what it has already offered. 
As far as I am aware, Barclays offer to send Mrs P the gift of a hamper and wine as a 
gesture of goodwill has not been withdrawn. It doesnt form part of my decision but I would 
take this opportunity to remind Mrs P to speak to Barclays directly about this gift if she wants 
to follow up on this. My final decision
My decision is that, if it hasnt already done so, Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs P 
£200, as it has offered to do, to settle this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman