DRN-4473925
The complaint
Miss G complains that Scottish Widows Limited (SWL) has made alterations to her pension 
plan without her approval. 
After stopping the regular payments into her pension because she doesnt feel that SWL 
have given her a satisfactory answer following the changes, Miss G says that she would now 
like SWL to make up the contributions that shes not made because of their lack of 
information. 
What happened
In November 2022, SWL wrote to a group of their workplace pension customers to explain 
that they were making a number of changes to their plans. The updates were designed to 
provide plan holders with a number of improvements, including adding a flexible access 
drawdown feature, adding further investment funds to choose from and simplifying the plan 
charges. SWL said that they needed to update their IT systems and as a result, customers 
pension plans would be moving onto their new platform in the next 12 months.
In May 2023, Miss G received a letter from SWL, explaining that they had migrated her plan 
from their old system and on to the new platform on 20 February 2023. This meant that the 
changes that they covered in the November 2022 letter, such as revisions to the charging 
structure on her plan, had now come into force.
Shortly afterwards, Miss G decided to telephone SWL to understand the May 2023 letter 
further. After not receiving a satisfactory answer to her query, she decided to formally 
complain to SWL the same day. In summary, she said that shed received their letter earlier 
in the month explaining the changes to the charges that were being applied to her pension 
and was unhappy that SWL could make alterations to her plan without her agreement. She 
also explained that she hadnt received SWLs earlier letter from November 2022 that 
positioned the forthcoming changes.
Miss G also explained to SWL that because shed lost confidence in them, shed stopped 
paying her pension contributions until they provided a satisfactory response to her queries.
As SWL were unable to respond to Miss Gs complaint within eight weeks, they offered her 
the option to refer her concerns to this service. Miss G decided to exercise her right to raise 
her concerns with ourselves, and forwarded her complaint to this service. In summary, she 
said that she was unhappy that SWL could change her plan without her say-so. She also 
went on to say that because shed paused her pension contributions, she wanted SWL to 
compensate her by paying the amounts that she missed back into her pension.
After reviewing Miss Gs complaint, SWL concluded that they were satisfied theyd done 
nothing wrong. They explained that they had migrated customers plans in February 2023 to 
a new platform. As a result, Miss Gs plan, which previously had a two-element charging 
structure, was moved to a simpler charge. Prior to the change, SWL said that Miss G was 
paying 0.5% per annum in charges and after the platform migration, she was still paying 
0.5%. Whilst they werent upholding Miss Gs complaint, to say sorry for the amount of time it 
had taken them to respond to her complaint, SWL said that they were paying her £100 for 
the trouble that theyd caused.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. She concluded that SWL 
had treated Miss G fairly and she went on to say that the changes SWL had made, put her in 
the same position she was in previously  that is to say, SWL were still charging the same 
0.5% per annum but the manner in how the charge was taken had altered to make things 
simpler for plan holders. During their discussions, Miss G also explained that following 
SWLs updates, the fund that she was previously invested in changed and dropped in value. 
However, our Investigator explained that she was still invested in the same fund pre and 
post migration to SWLs new IT platform.
Miss G, however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, she said that SWL 
hadnt been clear with her about the costs that she was paying both now and previously. She 
also explained that following the changes that SWL made in February 2023, she still 
believed her pension had fallen in value because of the alteration that theyd also made to 
where her monies were invested. Miss G also explained that SWL had deeply offended and 
hurt her  she went on to say that by being ignored, they werent treating her as a valued 
customer.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change her view as she didnt believe that Miss G 
had presented any new arguments shed not already considered or responded to. Unhappy, 
Miss G then asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to review that 
outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Miss G and SWL, in order to reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, 
but it is for me to decide, based on the available information that I've been given, what's 
more likely than not to have happened. And, having done so, Im not upholding Miss Gs 
complaint. Whilst Im not sure I can add a great deal more than our Investigator has already 
set out, Ill explain why below.
I can appreciate Miss Gs concerns when she received SWLs letter in May 2023, explaining 
that her pension had been moved on to their new platform. Miss G says that she never 
received SWLs November 2022 letter, positioning the changes, so their May 2023 letter 
came as a surprise. Struggling to understand what the changes meant, she then telephoned 
SWL to gain a better understanding of what the impact was for her. Ive listened to the 
telephone discussion that Miss G had with SWL when she called them on 16 May 2023. The 
entire conversation was challenging because SWLs call handler wasnt aware of the letter 
that Miss G had been sent and Miss G was upset that SWL could neither explain the 
changes or make alterations to her plan without her say-so. Consequently, the call handler wasnt in an informed position to walk through those changes 
with Miss G and help her understand what and why the alterations had been made. This 
then led to Miss G becoming more frustrated and ultimately raising a complaint with them.
Its unfortunate that Miss G didnt receive SWLs November 2022 letter because that 
provided the background to the changes and what it meant for Miss G. SWL have said that 
they dont have a copy of the November 2022 letter that was sent to Miss G because they 
were issued under a bulk mailing programme to all customers who held the same type of 
plan as her. Ive no reason to doubt that it wasnt sent, but it appears that Miss G didnt 
receive it.
In any event, the May 2023 letter provided an additional explanation of the changes that 
SWL had made and what it meant for Miss Gs plan. But, it seems from her call with SWL on 
16 May 2023, that Miss G didnt really understand what that letter was setting out. She 
explained that as shed not given her permission for her pension to be moved on to SWLs 
new platform, she wanted to opt out of the changes and be put back to where she was 
previously. She also explained that shed never paid charges before and that she wasnt 
happy for SWL to start charging her now.
However, thats not the case  and thats because Miss G was already paying SWL 0.5% to 
manage her pension and following the February 2023 changes, she was still paying SWL 
0.5%, albeit the way in which they were collecting that charge had changed. Prior to her 
pension migrating, Miss G paid a fund-based charge of 1% and was then given a discount of 
0.5% which was put directly into her pension in the form of extra units. The fund-based 
charge wasnt deducted from individual plans but was debited from the entire value of the 
fund, leading to a reduction in the funds bid price. However, following the switch to the new 
charging approach, SWL are now levying a fund-based charge of 0.1% and an 
administration charge of 0.4%, totalling 0.5%, which unlike the previous approach, now 
comes directly off the policy. SWL say that they made the change to make it simpler for 
customers to understand.
Whilst I appreciate that SWL have altered how the charges are taken, theyre still debiting 
the same amount each year in percentage terms. So, whilst the charges may have come as 
surprise to Miss G, despite what she may think, this wasnt a new cost that SWL were 
levying for looking after her pension and she had always been paying this amount. SWL 
werent able to provide evidence of the charges disclosure that Miss G was given at the time 
she took the plan out in 2014 because the pension was organised through her employer, but 
they say that she would have been sent a welcome pack at the time, which would have 
highlighted all of the relevant costs. SWL provided an example welcome pack to this service 
which does highlight the typical costs involved in running the pension. Whilst Ive no reason 
to believe that SWL didnt send the welcome pack, either Miss C didnt read it, or 
misunderstood it, or has forgotten about the charges associated with her pension. I think it 
didnt help that SWLs May 2023 letter didnt include a comparison of the costs that she was 
previously paying (prior to the migration), compared to what she would pay under the new 
approach. But, looking at the information that I have been provided, I cant agree with Miss G 
that she has been financially disadvantaged by SWLs change, because it still appears that 
shes paying the same annual cost, albeit structured slightly differently, to have her pension 
professionally managed.
As part of SWLs migration to their new system, Miss G also explained that theyd altered her 
investments, meaning that shes lost out financially. Prior to SWL moving Miss Gs pension 
onto their new platform, her monies were invested in their Pension Portfolio Two fund. SWL 
have sent this service evidence that post migration, her monies are still in that same fund. As part of the changes that SWL made, they created new versions of a number of their 
funds. Despite this, those funds still invested in exactly the same underlying investments, but 
importantly, as they had different unit prices, consumers held a different number of units 
following the migration, which is why there appeared to be a change. However, the value of 
Miss Gs plan wasnt affected by the change and consequently, she was no worse off. 
Miss G says that because SWL ghosted her when she complained, she decided to pause 
the monthly contributions into her pension. She now wants SWL to make up those missing 
contributions because, she says, they failed to communicate with her or put her mind at rest 
that there wasnt a problem with her plan. However, I dont agree that they should cover her 
missing monthly contributions and thats because Ive not been persuaded that SWL have 
done anything wrong by making the changes to her pension. SWL have already conceded 
they could have responded to Miss Gs concerns about her pension plan more promptly, and 
have given her £100 in recognition of that, but it was Miss Gs decision to stop the payments, 
not SWLs. Whilst I appreciate that changes which come as a surprise can be unsettling, 
having looked at SWLs terms and conditions, they do allow for revisions to be made to 
customers policies. And, looking at the changes that SWL have made, Ive not been 
persuaded that they have disadvantaged Miss G in any way. So, whilst I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to Miss G, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint and do not require Scottish Widows Limited to take any 
further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman