DRN-3573575
The complaint
Mrs W complains about the way Crowdstacker Limited has administered the funds she 
invested in a loan on its peer-to-peer (P2P) lending platform. She says the actions taken by 
Crowdstacker have prevented her from recovering the capital she invested. 
What happened
In 2016, Mrs W invested £15,240 in a loan promoted on Crowdstackers P2P platform. It was 
a 36-month investment, with quarterly interest due to be paid and capital returned at the end 
of the term.
In and around 2018, the company Mrs W funds were lent to (the borrower) encountered 
financial issues and on 20 December 2018, the directors appointed administrators. Due to 
this there was a delay in Mrs Ws capital being repaid at the end of the loan term. There 
were further delays until Crowdstacker provided an update in February 2021 confirming 
there would be shortfall in the returns. 
In May 2021, the administrators proposed a restructuring plan (RP) to exit administration. In 
its role as security trustee, Crowdstacker opposed this but the court ruling went against it  
and a court approved the plan in August 2021. A £75,000 distribution was made for lenders, 
but Crowdstacker said this was fully utilised paying for the legal costs incurred in contesting 
the RP. 
In January 2022, Mrs W contacted this service to raise a complaint. Mrs W was unhappy 
with the actions that Crowdstacker took in its role as security trustee to return the capital she 
invested. The complaint was passed on to Crowdstacker in the first instance to provide a 
response to Mrs W. It didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said the borrower is 
responsible for managing their own business, making business decisions and making loan 
repayments to investors. It also said there is always risk of a borrowing business failing to 
pay interest or repay capital. These risks were explained to ensure investors understand the 
risk they are taking. So, it didnt accept it was responsible for the losses Mrs W faces. 
As no agreement could be reached, one of our investigators looked int the complaint. He 
didnt uphold it. In summary he said:
- He was satisfied Crowdstacker provided clear information about the security that was 
provided for the loan. He found the risk of the borrower becoming insolvent was 
explained  and that there was a risk to interest payments and capital not being 
repaid in full.  
- The defaulting of the loan during the administration process, along with other costs 
incurred, meant that returns were affected for Crowdstacker investors  but he didnt 
think the losses were caused by anything other than the accepted risk of P2P 
lending.
- Updates were provided by Crowdstacker during the administration process. Whilst 
there were inconsistent messages from update to update  he found that this was 
due to actions of the administrator and not due to Crowdstacker. Once administrators 
are appointed, it is for them to make decisions on how best to wind down the 
company in question. The administration process is often long and complicated, 
especially where there are many different parties involved.
- He didnt think that Crowdstacker acted unfairly by deducting recovered funds to 
apply towards its legal costs  this possibility of this is explained in the terms and 
conditions.
Mrs W didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to reach a 
decision. She provided further submissions for me to consider. 
- Crowdstacker should have voted against the appointment of administrators, so that 
the remaining assets of the borrower would have been available for creditors/lenders 
benefit.
- The situation could have, possibly, been recovered to some extend if Crowdstacker 
had voted against the RP which removed all the lenders security rights. At least 
Crowdstacker would have been acting to preserve the lenders most valuable rights 
and justifying its legal expenses.
- She believes there had been a complete lack of oversight by Crowdstacker over the 
borrowers operations and this has led to a substantial proportion of her losses - as 
such some compensation is due. 
- She questions the legal expenses has Crowdstacker incurred that resulted in the 
lenders having to surrender all the compensation that they were awarded in the RP  
this wasnt acting in her interests.
- She accepts that losses can occur, but on this occasion, she only invested because 
of the stated security and there was no prior advice that such could be removed by 
court action.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the information provided by the parties but have concentrated my findings 
on what I believe to be the crux of complaint.  Much of this complaint concerns 
Crowdstackers actions after Mrs W invested in the loan, specifically the events following the 
defaulting of the loan and recovery action. In that regard the most relevant part of the terms 
relate to the agreement that the security trustee can act on behalf of investors, like Mrs W. In 
this situation the security trustee is an affiliated company of Crowdstacker and acts as its 
agent. I note the following:
14.   Loan Variation
14.3.   You agree that the Security Trustee will be acting as agent on your behalf in 
negotiating and agreeing any amendments to the Loan Contract with the Borrower and in 
entering into any amendment to the Key Commercial Terms.
14.4.   You hereby appoint the Security Trustee (for the duration of your membership of 
Crowdstacker) as your agent with full power and capacity to carry out amendments under 
this clause 14 without your specific agreement. You agree that you will then be bound by 
those changes. You agree and acknowledge that the Security Trustee shall take on no 
liabilities, obligations or rights under the Loan Contract as a result of such agency, and you 
agree that you will continue to be solely bound by the rights and obligations of the lender 
under the Loan Contract (as amended).
I also note the terms and conditions cover the scenario where a borrower defaults on 
payments. This section explains the Security Trustee (as agent acting on Crowdstackers behalf) make attempts recover funds. When initial attempts fail the loan is placed into default 
 the terms confirm:
19.2.   If the Loan is placed into default, you authorise the Security Trustee to novate the 
outstanding loan to the Security Trustee at any time without the requirement for the Security 
Trustee to notify you in advance. Either we or the Security Trustee will notify you when the 
outstanding Loan has been novated to the Security Trustee or to an affiliate company of the 
Security Trustee. Please note that the Security Trustee may need to novate the debt to one 
of our affiliate companies to enable us to commence legal proceedings against the Borrower 
for the full amount outstanding. The Security Trustee or an affiliate company of the Security 
Trustee will then investigate the amount of debt that is likely to be successfully recovered 
through the courts. If the Security Trustee or an affiliate company of the Security Trustee 
deems it appropriate, it will instruct solicitors to file court claims to recover the debt. The 
Security Trustee or an affiliate company of the Security Trustee will pay back to lenders in 
their proportionate share any funds successfully recovered, less its costs incurred during that 
recovery. The Security Trustee or an affiliate company of the Security Trustee will act in a 
fair and equitable manner to achieve recovery for all affected lenders, which may include 
extending payment terms or selling the debt to a third party.
Essentially lenders appoint Crowdstacker to act as their agent in relation to the loans they 
invest in  which includes any recovery action when loans default. Ive considered the 
actions Crowdstacker took after Mrs W invested. 
Im satisfied Crowdstacker did keep Mrs W and other lenders up to date with the 
performance of the loan  including when it went into default. It informed lenders in early 
2019 that the borrowers business had been placed into administration. Following this, 
updates continued to be provided and indicated that while there were delays in repayment, 
there was an expectation that full capital we returned. This changed when a February 2021 
update confirmed a likely shortfall. This was based on the information in the administrators 
latest progress report (dated end of January 2021). 
Crowdstacker has provided evidence from its update that it did challenge the administrator 
on this significant change in position. It gave lenders details of the responses it received. 
The administrators then proposed a RP. Crowdstacker opposed the RP as it didnt think it 
would result in a fair treatment to the lenders it represented. It proposed to take legal action 
to reject the RP and attended court hearings as part of this process to challenge various 
aspects of the proposed RP. Ultimately it was unsuccessful with this, and the RP was 
approved. But Ive seen evidence through the published court judgment that supports the 
attempts made by Crowdstacker to reject the RP. It also indicates it was working to support 
interests of lenders like Mrs W. So, I dont find a failing by Crowdstacker resulted in the 
approval of the RP.
From the information Ive seen, the decisions taken by the administrator were a key factor in 
the reason why Crowdstackers lender suffered losses. Crowdstacker didnt have control 
over this. It made attempts through legal action to prevent the RP. Im satisfied form the 
available evidence that lenders (including Mrs Ws) - interests were being represented 
through the recovery and subsequent legal process Crowdstacker was involved in. Mrs W 
may have preferred Crowdstacker to present different arguments to the court, but the this 
doesnt mean it failed to act in her interest. For the reason previously explained, I havent 
found a failing in this respect. I also havent found that Crowdstackers actions contributed to 
the failure to recover funds through the security. 
Mrs W has raised a concern that she wasnt aware the security for the loan could be 
removed by a legal process. The ultimate demise of the borrowers business and the actions 
taken by the administrator werent something that were known at the outset. So, I dont think its reasonable to say Crowdstacker should have made the possibility of these specific 
events clearer. Rather I see this as part of the broader risk of P2P lending that following 
default it is possible funds arent returned to investors in full. And I think this risk was 
adequately explained before Mrs W invested. 
As part of the RP there was to be £75,000 distributed to Crowdstacker lenders. But it says 
contesting the RP required legal services which were funded by the security trustee. And the 
creditor payment was utilised for part of these legal costs. And Crowdstacker says in fact the 
recoveries to date have not reimbursed the costs incurred by the security trustee. It has 
pointed to the terms and conditions to show this possibility is covered. Having reviewed this 
section of the terms, I can see that it says any recovery payments made will be less its 
costs incurred during that recovery. So, I dont find that Crowdstacker has acted unfairly in 
the approach taken to deduct costs. 
Mrs W has suggested that a lack of oversight by Crowdstacker over the borrowers 
operations has led to a substantial proportion of her losses. With hindsight, I can appreciate 
why Mrs W feels closer monitoring of the borrowers operations could have resulted in a 
different outcome in respect of the loan repayment. However, I need to consider whether 
Crowdstacker has acted, or failed to act in a way that that it was required to, which caused 
Mrs W to suffer a loss. I havent found that in respect of the loan that it was required to 
monitor or have oversight of the borrowers operation. Post investment, Crowdstackers role 
in the running of the platform was essentially to monitor the payment by borrowers of interest 
for onward payment to lenders. Once a payment problem occurs, Crowdstackers role then 
includes recovery action  as described previously. While it has responsibilities in the 
administration of the loan, I dont think this extended to having a monitoring responsibility of 
the operations of the borrower in the way Mrs W suggests.  
In summary, the nature of investing in P2P loans does present a risk to lenders that 
borrowers default and a risk of losses where recovery action isnt able to return all capital 
and interest due. Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence to say there were 
failings by Crowdstacker that contributed to the problems and costs incurred in the recovery 
process. Having reviewed the circumstances of this loan - I dont find that Crowdstacker is 
responsible for the losses Mrs W has incurred. Ive found that it did act in and a fair and 
reasonable way when fulfilling its obligations to Mrs W.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman