DRN-1516301
The complaint
Miss A complains about how Julian Hodge Bank Limited (T/A Hodge Bank) has calculated 
the interest payable on the maturity of her fixed rate bond.
What happened
Miss A held a two year fixed rate bond with Hodge Bank. This bond was opened in 
November 2017 and it matured in November 2019. The interest in year one accrued over 
365 days. However, in the final year of the bond the interest accrued over 364 days, which 
led to a difference of around £5 in the interest Miss A earned.
On 2 December 2019 Miss A contacted Hodge Bank to complain that she was expecting to 
receive more interest. Hodge Bank issued its final response to her complaint two days later. 
It explained the interest rate had been correctly applied to Miss As bond. And it said the 
interest had accrued in line with the terms and conditions of her account. So it didnt uphold 
her complaint.
Being dissatisfied with Hodge Banks response to her complaint, Miss A referred it to our 
service. But our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. They thought Hodge Bank had 
acted in line with the accounts terms and conditions. And they thought it had calculated the 
interest correctly. So, they didnt think Hodge Bank had made an error. But Miss A disagreed 
and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Miss A and Hodge Bank that Ive read everything that theyve 
provided. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just 
that I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
My role is to assess whether I think Hodge Bank made a mistake, or treated Miss A unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she 
and Hodge Bank have said, Im afraid to say that I agree with our investigators view about 
this complaint. Indeed, theres not a great deal I can add to what our investigators already 
told Miss A. I think they set out the position very clearly and thoroughly.
The crux of this complaint is whether Hodge Bank correctly calculated the interest payable 
on Miss As bond.
The terms and conditions of Miss As account explain in plain and unambiguous language 
how interest would be calculated on her bond. They say interest is calculated daily on cleared credit balances, up to and including the day before withdrawal or closure, or until the 
actual date of transfer to another account with us. 
Day 365 of year two was the date of the closure of Miss As account. So, this explains why, 
although in year one Miss As interest accrued over 365 days, the interest payable in the 
final year of her bond equated to 364 days worth of interest.  
Hodge Bank said these terms and conditions are available online and Miss A also received a 
copy when she took out her bond in 2017. Ive no reason to doubt what Hodge Bank says 
about that because Miss A hasnt told our service she didnt receive a copy of the account 
terms when she took out her bond. So, Im not persuaded she wasnt made aware of the 
terms applicable to her account.
Miss A accepted these terms when she opened her account. So it is fair and reasonable that 
Hodge Bank now relies on these terms and conditions given each agreed to contract on this 
basis.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint I think Hodge Bank provided Miss A with clear 
and sufficient information in its terms and conditions about how it would calculate the interest 
on her bond on its maturity. And Im satisfied Hodge Bank calculated the interest payable in 
line with the terms and conditions of her account.  I therefore dont uphold this complaint. 
I understand Miss A feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and I realise 
she will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying to 
resolve her dispute with Hodge Bank informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Miss 
A any further with this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman