DRN-2632206
The complaint
Mrs A complains Healthcare Finance Limited (HCL) has failed to accept its responsibilities 
to her under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). 
HCF has communicated through an associated loan servicing company during this 
complaint, which I will call T. Where I refer to HCF this should be taken to include T as well 
unless I specifically mention otherwise.
What happened
Mrs A entered into discussions about receiving a teeth alignment treatment with a company I 
will call S, in or around September and October 2019. 
After some negotiation Mrs A agreed a price of £999 with S in November 2019 for ten 
aligners for her lower teeth, six aligners for her upper teeth, retainers for both upper and 
lower arches, and teeth whitening. S was to send Mrs A the aligners and, once they had 
realigned her teeth, S would then send the retainers and arrange for her teeth whitening. 
S arranged a loan with HCF to fund the treatment, at 0% interest over 36 months. The loan 
monies were paid directly to S, and not to Mrs A. 
All went relatively well until Mrs A was coming to the end of the treatment of her upper arch 
in March 2020 and began making enquiries of S about having her upper retainer sent. There 
were various delays and I wont narrate all of these, but Mrs A says she paid £10 postage to 
send some dental impressions to S, and ultimately she never received either of the retainers, 
or the teeth whitening, because S became insolvent in July 2020. 
Mrs A had complained to HCL, to whom she was still repaying the loan, initially about Ss 
delays and then about them going out of business. She noted that she hadnt received 
everything she had paid for and would now need to pay to obtain the missing items and 
services elsewhere. She also said she had needed to wear her last aligner for so long it had 
broken and was cutting her gums. HCF said to Mrs A that she needed to keep making her 
payments, and initially responded to her complaint after it became apparent S had become 
insolvent, to say that it believed Mrs A had received what shed paid for and that therefore 
there was nothing it could do. 
Later, HCL revised its stance and accepted Mrs A hadnt received retainers or teeth 
whitening, and offered to reduce the balance of her loan by £298  this being made up of 
£149 each for the pair of retainers and the whitening. Mrs A didnt accept this offer and 
asked this service to investigate the matter. She added at this point that one of her wisdom 
teeth had become infected due to wearing the last aligner for so long, and she had needed 
to have antibiotics as a result.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She concluded HCF had made a fair offer 
and she couldnt ask them to do anything more. The investigator reasoned that there was a 
lack of evidence to show the value HCF had placed on the parts of the contract which hadnt 
been delivered was incorrect. She also considered there wasnt enough evidence that any 
infection Mrs A had had was caused by wearing the aligner. 
Mrs A disagreed and provided some messages shed received from S which indicated the 
teeth whitening was priced at £200. She also said she was surprised consideration was not 
shown for her hurt feelings. The investigator considered the new evidence but it didnt 
change her view as she thought the messages from S were a marketing pitch rather than 
evidence of the price of the teeth whitening. 
No agreement could be reached, and so the case has been passed to me to decide. More 
recently, Mrs A has said the fact she did not receive her retainers has caused her teeth to 
move back out of alignment and she will now need to start her treatment again. She has also 
said that the alignment treatment didnt completely straighten her teeth. 
Prior to writing my decision I checked with Mrs A if she had seen a dentist or similarly 
qualified professional in relation to the alignment of her teeth and whether the failure by S to 
supply the retainers meant her teeth had shifted out of alignment. Mrs A had not seen a 
dentist at this point but subsequently did so. She supplied a letter from the dentist which said 
there was a 1-2mm misalignment between certain of her lower front teeth, and a 1mm 
misalignment between her top two front teeth.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer purchases goods or services using certain types of credit, they may have 
a limited degree of protection under section 75 of the CCA. Section 75 allows a consumer to 
claim against their lender in respect of any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods or services, subject to certain technical criteria being met relating to the 
value of the purchase and the contractual relationship between the parties involved in it. 
Mrs As loan with HCF was of a type which section 75 applies to. Whether the other 
technical criteria have been met isnt disputed in this case, so I will say no more on this point 
other than to say that having considered the evidence I agree Mrs As scenario meets the 
technical criteria. Its also no longer disputed that S failed to supply the retainers and teeth 
whitening which had been agreed and paid for under the contract. So all parties agree there 
has been a breach of contract. Where they disagree is on what would be an appropriate 
remedy to put things right. 
In general, when there has been a breach of contract the remedy is to put the person who 
has suffered the breach in the position theyd have been in, had the contract not been 
breached. Mrs A did not receive the teeth whitening or the retainers which were included in 
her contract with S, so my starting point is that she should receive redress equal to the value 
of the goods and services she didnt receive. This would, in theory, allow her to go out and 
obtain those items elsewhere. Mrs As contract with S was not broken down into individual 
prices for the different components, so it is difficult to say what value was attached to these 
under the contract, but I have gone on to analyse this further.
The teeth whitening
I have read the emails between S and Mrs A where negotiations were taking place over the 
price. On 7 November 2019, S responded to an email from Mrs A where she had asked if 
teeth whitening could be added to the deal. It said that what it was offering Mrs A was £999 
without teeth whitening, and if she wanted teeth whitening this would mean an overall price of £1,149. Mrs A replied to say the teeth whitening had been an appealing part of the deal 
and she had received a number of texts offering it for no extra charge. S then said it would 
include the teeth whitening (and keep the price at £999) if Mrs A signed up by the end of the 
week. 
This exchange of emails suggests S valued its teeth whitening service at £150. Its not clear 
what kind of teeth whitening kit Mrs A was meant to receive, and I note the prices of various 
teeth whitening products and services vary widely on the market, both significantly below 
and significantly above £150. Overall Im inclined to accept that £150 is likely to have 
reflected the value attributed to the teeth whitening by S and Mrs A at the time, and that it 
would be fair for her to receive a refund of this amount. 
Mrs A says she wouldnt have gone ahead with the deal if S hadnt offered the free teeth 
whitening. That is a different argument. If S had told Mrs A that it would provide her with 
teeth whitening, but it never had any intention of doing so, or knew it wouldnt be able to, 
then this would have been a misrepresentation and Mrs A would be entitled to be put, as far 
as practically possible, back into the position shed have been in had she never entered the 
contract. But Ive not seen evidence to indicate S didnt intend to provide the teeth whitening, 
or knew it wouldnt be able to. S went out of business about seven months after Mrs A 
contracted with it: this is the reason why she didnt receive the teeth whitening. And I dont 
think I could draw a conclusion that S was aware, seven months before it went out of 
business, that it would be unable to supply this. So I cant agree that Mrs A was given false 
information about the provision of teeth whitening prior to entering the contract.
The retainers 
S told Mrs A in an email in June 2020 that a replacement set of retainers would cost £149. 
This is in line with the information on Ss website from around the time Mrs A entered the 
contract (where a set of retainers was priced at €149). So its fairly clear in my view that 
£149 was likely to have been the price of the retainers Mrs A did not receive. This is 
comparable to market rates for retainers of this type (clear plastic), ordered online, so I think 
it fairly reflects what she would have to pay in order to obtain them given S failed to supply 
them, and it is right that this amount is refunded as well. 
Problems caused by the failure to supply the retainers 
Mrs A says that she was advised by S to wear her last aligner for so long while she was 
waiting for her retainers, that it cracked and she ended up with an infection. I understand Mrs 
A did not see a doctor or dentist at the time, and treated any pain she had with paracetamol. 
If Mrs A had an infection I would want to see some evidence that this had been caused by 
wearing the aligner. This is not available so Im unable to conclude the aligner caused an 
infection, or that any responsibility for this falls on S or HCF. 
Additionally, Mrs A says her teeth have moved out of alignment again due to the failure of S 
to supply the retainers. This seems plausible. Its common knowledge that retainers are 
needed to prevent teeth from moving back to their original positions after realignment, and 
this was in fact something S warned its customers about. Indeed, it appears this was why S 
advised Mrs A to continue wearing her last aligner while she waited for the retainer.
The difficulty I have is that although Mrs A has provided evidence that her teeth are not 
completely aligned now, I dont know whether, or to what extent, this was caused by the 
failure by S to supply the retainers. The dentist does not comment on this. I have no 
evidence of the state of alignment of Mrs As teeth at the end of her aligner treatment for 
comparison purposes, but Mrs A has told us that her teeth were not fully aligned at the end 
of the treatment. Ultimately, I am unable to tell if the current misalignment resulted from the failure of S to supply the retainers, or because her teeth were not completely aligned by the 
end of the treatment. 
But if the answer is the latter then I would note that I additionally cannot be sure if perfect 
alignment was promised by S. I understand Mrs A received a treatment plan at the beginning 
of the process, which was supposed to show how her teeth would look at each stage of 
alignment. It appears this plan is no longer available for viewing, so I cannot know what 
results were promised. Even if the plan showed perfect alignment at the end of the process, I 
can see Ss website suggested that this was not a guaranteed result and further refinements 
might have been necessary, which would have carried an additional cost. 
In the end, I cant say that S failed to align Mrs As teeth in accordance with what it promised 
to do for her contractually, or that its failure to supply the retainers led to her teeth becoming 
misaligned. It follows that I cant say HCF should provide further redress in respect of this.
Finally, I note Mrs A mentions having paid £10 postage to send a set of impressions to S so 
they could make the retainers. I can see S requested that she do this as it was apparently 
having some difficulty specifying her retainers. HCF said its not convinced its responsible 
for this amount, but I think ultimately this is additional money Mrs A paid towards having the 
retainers made and sent to her, on top of the amount paid to S by HCF under the loan. Its 
accepted that she didnt receive the retainers, so as a consequence of Ss breach of contract 
this additional payment has effectively been for nothing. I think Mrs A is able to recover this 
amount and it is therefore fair that it is included in any redress. 
As mentioned earlier in this decision, HCF reduced the balance of the loan by £298. I 
observed to HCF in a recent email that the teeth whitening appeared to be valued at £150 
and not £149, and that Mrs A had paid postage as Ive outlined above. HCF reduced the 
balance further after I made these observations, making for a total deduction of £309. 
In light of my findings above, I think that what HCF has done to resolve the complaint is fair 
and goes far enough to remedy Ss breach of contract, for which it had been liable to Mrs A 
under section 75 of the CCA. So I wont direct it to go any further, though I would remind it of 
its duty to exercise forbearance if Mrs A is experiencing any difficulties paying what she 
owes.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman