DRN-3852916
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy about the service he received from The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op), in 
particular that a message was left on his answering machine for his late wife regarding 
payments hed made in branch.
What happened
Mr G held a joint bank account with his wife. Mr Gs wife passed away. Following this he 
visited the branch for a bereavement meeting, during which he made several payments. 
When Mr G returned home there was a message on his answering machine asking his late 
wife to contact Co-op regarding payments flagged on their system. 
Co-op accepted theyd made an error contacting Mr Gs late wife and paid £25 for the 
distress caused. Our investigator upheld the complaint and said Co-op should pay an 
additional £225, bringing the total compensation to £250. Co-op accepted the investigators 
findings. Mr G disagreed so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Mrs G passed away. I recognise when this matter occurred Mr G was 
already going through a difficult time, and I have been mindful of this when considering what 
happened and the impact this had on Mr G. 
Mr G visited a Co-op branch for a bereavement meeting following the death of his wife. Mr G 
requested several payments which were flagged with Co-ops fraud prevention system. As a 
result of this Co-op left a message asking the late Mrs G to contact them regarding some of 
the payments. This should not have happened.
It was undoubtedly distressing for Mr G to receive a message asking for his late wife to 
contact Co-op, particularly given that shed passed away recently, and that Mr G had already 
notified Co-op of her death. I also note that one of the payments in question was in relation 
to the funeral of the late Mrs G so its likely it wouldve been an extremely important payment 
to Mr G. Fortunately this payment was made successfully the following day. 
Im aware Mr G has some general concerns about Co-ops processes, such as why a 
message about a joint account was sent to only one account holder, and one it knew had 
passed away at that. And why the message was worded in a way which made him feel like 
he was under suspicion. Mr G wants Co-op to change its processes. While I accept his 
strength of feeling and respect his desire to prevent others experiencing similar issues, its 
not within my remit to investigate  or require changes to - Co-ops processes. 
I can consider the specific circumstances of individual complaints. Here, Im satisfied Co-op 
let Mr G down and caused him material distress and inconvenience at an already difficult 
time. Compensation is therefore appropriate. I find, taking everything into account, that £250 
compensation fairly and reasonably reflects the impact this matter had on Mr G.
My final decision
My final decision is that The Co-operative Bank Plc should pay Mr G a further £225 taking 
the total to £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Marie Camenzuli
Ombudsman