DRN-2100675
The complaint
Mr Y, on behalf of Mrs Y, complains about how Nationwide Building Society has dealt with 
the Power of Attorney (PoA) that was registered on her account.
What happened
Mr Y says a PoA was registered on Mrs Ys account in around 2016 having been previously 
registered with a business Nationwide took over. He says he has letters addressed to his 
mother Mrs Y confirming a PoA was registered. Mr Y says he opened a new account for Mrs 
Y following a letter he received from Nationwide but later spoke to it and it denied there was 
a PoA registered. He says whilst this mistake has not had a financial impact, he is 
concerned that correspondence may be sent to Mrs Y former address and not his.
Nationwide says its records showed Mr Y didnt hold a PoA on Mrs Ys account. Following 
Mr Ys complaint to us it looked into matters in more detail, and says Mr Y did hold a PoA for 
a closed account. It says it doesnt transfer a PoA and Mr Y will need to register the PoA 
again.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought overall Nationwide dealt fairly with it 
and had followed its policies. The investigator didnt think it our role to tell a business what its 
polices should be or to change them and explained that we are not Nationwides regulator.
Mr Y doesnt accept that view and in summary says Nationwide suggested he open a new 
account and allowed him to do so for Mrs Y. And it cant be fair that having allowed that, 
Nationwide then refuses to transfer the PoA. Mr Y also says Nationwides policy contradicts 
the legality of the PoA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that whilst I dont require Nationwide to do 
anything further in the circumstances of this complaint, I think it could have handled matters 
more appropriately and explained its position to Mr Y.
I make clear to Mr Y that we are not Nationwides regulator and so its not our role to tell it 
how it runs or operates its business. We are also not a court and so whilst I appreciate what 
Mr Y says about Nationwides actions contradicting the legality of the PoA, that would be for 
a court to determine. So, I cant order Nationwide to change its policy about the re-
registration of a PoA when an account is closed or changed however inconvenient that may 
be.
I accept that Nationwide ought to have looked into Mrs Ys account history before writing to 
Mr Y about his complaint. I appreciate Mr Ys frustration in those circumstances as he would 
have known he did hold a PoA for his mothers account and would not have known about 
Nationwides policy. But I can see that Nationwide has now explained what its policy is and 
has explained to Mr Y what he needs to do. I dont think Mr Y has suffered any financial loss 
as a result of what took place and can see that he accepts that is the case. I appreciate Mr Y 
will need either to attend a Nationwide branch or send the PoA to Nationwide, which I accept 
will cause some inconvenience. But for the reasons I have explained I cant fairly hold 
Nationwide responsible for that, when that is its policy on such matters.
I appreciate what Mr Y says about him being able to open the account but the PoA isnt then 
transferred. I cant fairly answer that question or comment on it apart to repeat what I have 
said which is that its not our role to order a business to change its policies. But I think 
Nationwide could do more to explain that position, as I think its clear Mr Y was unaware of 
the need to re-register a PoA in these circumstances.
Overall, I appreciate that Mr Y will be disappointed by my decision and remain frustrated by 
Nationwides policy and that he wasnt told about it. But I think this brings an end to what we 
in trying to sort out this dispute informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman