DRN-3079153
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc carried out two hard searches on his credit file 
which has affected his credit score.
What happened
Mr C says he applied for a HSBC account and credit card account. He says HSBC carried 
out two hard searches on his credit file which resulted in his credit score dropping. Mr C 
questions why the hard searches were carried out and says he was assessed for a £500 
overdraft when he would have only wanted a £50 facility. He would like the searches 
removed from his credit file and compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
HSBC says Mr C applied online for the accounts and in doing so agreed to the terms and 
conditions which it says make clear that it will carry out searches on a credit file. It says the 
applications were both approved but Mr C cancelled both accounts as he was unhappy with 
the mobile banking application.
Mr C brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought HSBC made clear in the terms and conditions and in its privacy notice 
that searches would be carried out and be visible on a credit file. The investigator didnt think 
it mattered if the amount was £500 or £50 and in any event a credit card application would 
normally result in a hard search.
Mr C doesnt accept that view and says HSBC didnt make clear that hard searches would 
be carried out. He says that information should be highlighted and not hidden in the terms 
and conditions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly he feels 
about what took place.
I have looked at the application process for a HSBC account and credit card account. Im 
satisfied Mr C applied himself online for both accounts and in doing so agreed to the account 
terms and conditions. I can see those terms and conditions and HSBCs privacy notice all 
make clear that searches will be carried out on, as in this case, Mr Cs credit file. And those 
searches will be hard searches in other words searches that are visible. So, I dont think 
HSBC made a mistake or acted unfairly by carrying out those searches following Mr Cs 
applications and leaving a trace of them on his credit file. I find that HSBC acted in line with 
agreed account terms and conditions.
I appreciate Mr C says the information about such searches should be highlighted. But 
having looked at HSBCs application process, Im satisfied that it is visible and repeated. I 
also think its common practice for a hard search to be carried out especially for a credit card 
account. I also make clear that I dont think it matters if the overdraft facility was £500 or £50 
as both would involve a potential form of lending and subject to credit file searches.
Overall, Im satisfied that HSBC has dealt with this complaint fairly and hasnt made a 
mistake. It follows that I cant fairly order HSBC to remove the searches from Mr Cs credit 
file or order it to pay him the compensation he would like. I also find this brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this complaint informally can do.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman