DRN-1687971
 
The complaint
Mr S made a payment to an external account using his National Westminster Bank Plc (Nat 
West) mobile banking app, but the payment was held by Nat West for a security check to be 
made, and it suspended his account.
What happened
On 4 October 2019, Mr S logged into the Nat West mobile banking app whilst in the USA to 
send a payment of £500 to another financial institution.
Nat West suspended the payment, and Mr Ss account, to complete a fraud check, and sent 
Mr S an email to verify the transaction.
Mr S called Nat West to verify the payment and it was made the next working day.
Mr S says that Nat Wests mobile app didnt send him a text message to verify the payment, 
even though hed recorded his USA mobile number on the app. Mr S says he followed the 
instructions on the app to do this, and he shouldve received a text message allowing him to 
verify the payment. Mr S says that he had to call Nat West to verify the payment and this 
caused him some inconvenience. 
Mr S wants Nat West to change its app algorithm to allow verification text messages to be 
sent to USA mobiles. And he believes Nat West should pay him £50 to recognise the 
inconvenience it caused him when he had to call to verify the transaction. Mr S says he 
wants Nat West to stop blocking his transactions and suspending his internet banking.
Nat West says there had been a change to Mr Ss mobile telephone number made on 26 
August 2019, and there had been a further attempt to update the number again on 2 
September 2019. Nat West says that after its system flagged a requirement for further 
security checks, it decided to email Mr S to ask him to contact it to verify the payment. Nat 
West has also referred to the terms and conditions of the account to explain it stopped the 
payment, and suspended the account, until it had contacted Mr S to verify the payment was 
not fraudulent.
After considering the evidence provided, our investigator didnt consider Nat West had done 
anything wrong. The investigator said because Nat West considered there may be fraudulent 
activity, it was reasonable that it sought verification of the payment before letting it leave the 
account. This is in line with the terms and conditions of the account. The investigator 
accepted Mr S didnt receive a security text to verify the payment, but Nat West confirmed 
that its system didnt send texts to US mobile numbers, so it was reasonable for an email 
verification to be sent.
Mr S doesnt accept the view of the investigator and requested a final decision from an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence confirms Mr S changed his mobile number to a USA number on 26 August 
2019. It also shows that the number was reviewed on 2 September 2019, although it does 
not seem any changes were made. Mr S has provided several screen shots that persuade 
me he entered the number and prefix as guided to by the app, and I have no doubt Mr S 
believed, and expected Nat West would use this number for verification if required.
After making the transfer on 4 October 2019, Nat Wests system flagged this as a potentially 
fraudulent payment. It is normal practice for Nat West to send a text message to Mr S in 
order that he can respond by entering a code to verify the payment. In this case, Nat West 
decided to email Mr S to verify the payment.
There are clearly two elements to this complaint. The first is, was it reasonable for Nat West 
to email Mr S rather than send a text? And the second is, is it reasonable for Nat West to 
have a process that precludes verifications being sent to USA mobile numbers?
In my opinion, Nat West made a reasonable decision to seek verification by email rather 
than by text. This is because there had been recent activity involving a change to the mobile 
number used by Mr S. And the number Nat West now had was a USA mobile that its system 
couldnt send a text message to. I accept that if the number had been a UK number, it is 
more likely than not Mr S would have received a text request for verification, and he 
wouldve been able to access it. The alternative for Nat West was for it to make a telephone 
call using the USA mobile number, but bearing in mind this had recently been changed, I 
understand why Nat West was cautious in not taking this approach. Therefore, I dont think it 
is reasonable to expect Nat West to verify the payment using this method. Instead, I 
consider it was reasonable to verify the payment by email, as this was a valid method, and 
its terms and conditions explain it can do so to protect the account from fraudulent activity.
The terms and conditions state, at section 5.4 If we suspect or become aware that your 
account may be subject to fraud or security threats, well contact you using the contact 
details we hold for you. In the specific circumstances of this case, I think Nat West took 
reasonable steps to contact Mr S using what it believed to be the most secure method 
available at the time. 
I can empathise with Mr S and appreciate that he had make a to call Nat West to verify the 
payment, but I dont think Nat West did anything that I would consider unreasonable.
In respect of whether Nat West should change its systems, or algorithms, to allow text 
message to be sent to USA mobile numbers, this is not something that I can direct it to do. 
Nat West has security systems in place for all its clients and accounts, and I cant tell it to 
override these, but I can ask it to consider if there were exceptional circumstances in respect 
of an individual customer. In this case I dont think there is a reason to do so. 
I note that in his response to the investigator, on 17 March 2020, Mr S says that Nat West 
sent a security text message to his USA mobile on 16 March 2020, and he was able to log 
in to his account. It seems reasonable for me to infer that Nat West has already taken steps 
to ensure Mr S, and other customers using USA mobile numbers, can now receive security 
text messages. 
In his response to the investigators views, Mr S says that Nat West restricted his account 
in February 2018 whilst it carried out a security check. And that it paid him £50 for the 
distress and disruption caused to him. I appreciate that Mr S wants Nat West to pay him £50 
for the incident on 4 October 2019, but in the complaint investigated by this office, I am 
satisfied that, for the reasons I have already stated, Nat West acted reasonably. Therefore, a 
financial remedy is not appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I wont be asking National 
Westminster Bank Ltd to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman