DRN-3677671
The complaint
Ms S, through a representative complains that Morses Club PLC (Morses) didnt carry out 
proportionate affordability checks before it granted her loans. 
What happened
Ms S was advanced nine home collected loans between November 2018 and 
February 2021. Ive included some of the information weve received about these loans in 
the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm 
(weeks)weekly 
repayment
1 £100.00 02/11/2018 08/03/2019 20 £7.50
2 £150.00 11/01/2019 23/08/2019 33 £7.50
3 £100.00 08/03/2019 28/05/2019 20 £7.50
4 £200.00 28/05/2019 03/12/2019 33 £10.00
5 £150.00 23/08/2019 21/04/2020 33 £7.50
6 £250.00 03/12/2019 08/06/2020 34 £12.50
7 £400.00 08/06/2020 08/02/2021 34 £20.00
8 £150.00 10/11/2020 sold 34 £7.50
9 £400.00 08/02/2021 sold 34 £20.00
Ms S had some problems repaying loans 8 and 9 and Morses statement of account shows 
these loans were sold to a third-party collection agency in October 2021. 
The weekly repayment column is the cost per week per loan so where loans overlapped the 
cost will be greater. For example, when loans 1 and 2 overlapped Ms S commitment to 
Morses was £15 per week. 
Following Ms Ss complaint Morses wrote to her representative to explain that it was going to 
partly uphold the complaint. Morses said, that it didnt think it had made an error when 
providing loans 1  6. However, it did agree to pay compensation for loans 7  9. Ms Ss 
representative didnt agree with the offer and referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
After the complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman, Morses agreed to put things 
thing right for Ms S in relation to loans 6  9. This offer was then put to Ms S representative. 
Ms S didnt accept this offer, in summary she said.
The offer was too low, considered that her partner had received more compensation 
from Morses. 
Ms S says her partner was dealt with the repayments towards her loans due to her 
health. 
Ms S let us know that she has mental health problems. 
The adjudicator then reconsidered the complaint and issued a formal assessment of the 
complaint. She thought Morses had made a reasonable decision to provide loans 1 and 2 
and so she didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint about them.
By the time of loan 3, Ms S income had reduced so the adjudicator thought, given loan 2 
was still outstanding at the time, then for this and all future loans Morses checks needed to 
go further. In the adjudicators view it ought to have been verifying the information Ms S had 
provided. 
However, as the adjudicator didnt have a copy of either Ms S bank statements or a full copy 
of her credit report she wasnt able to say what Morses may have discovered had it made 
better checks. Therefore, she wasnt able to uphold Ms S complaint about these loans. 
The adjudicator didnt review loans 6  9 because Morses had already agreed to put things 
right for Ms S. 
Finally, the adjudicator explained that she couldnt comment on Ms S partners redress as 
each complaint is based on its own individual circumstances and that any complaint about 
the actions of the agent  given this was new information and potentially a new complaint - 
would need to be taken up with Morses directly as a new issue. 
Ms S representative told the Financial Ombudsman that Ms S wasnt accepting the 
proposed outcome. It then explained there wasnt an outstanding balance to pay and it 
provided some screen shots of her credit file which it considered showed this.  
The adjudicator approached Morses to ask about the outstanding balances and Morses 
confirmed the balance had been sold to a third-party collection agency and an outstanding 
balance remained due. Later it confirmed, that as of April 2022 Ms S owed a total of £668 
(this includes unpaid interest and capital) The adjudicator then communicated this to Ms S 
representative, and no further comments were provided. 
The case was then passed to an ombudsman to make a decision about the complaint. 
Before issuing this decision, I asked the adjudicator to contact both Ms S and Morses to ask 
for some further information about the complaint. 
Ms S provided some further details about both her physical and mental health at and during 
the time the loans were granted these included details of medication and how her health 
impacts her daily life. 
Ms S also confirmed that the third party who was sold the outstanding debts isnt reporting 
anything on her credit file. Later, Ms S provided some further screen shots of her credit file to 
demonstrate this. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses had to assess the lending to check if Ms S could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Morses checks couldve taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and 
Ms S income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Morses should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Ms S. These factors include:
Ms S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ms S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Ms S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Ms S.
Morses was required to establish whether Ms S could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Ms S was able to repay her 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Ms Ss complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
The adjudicator didnt uphold these loans because in her view Morses carried out 
proportionate checks and the checks showed that Ms S could afford her repayments. Having 
looked at everything I agree, with the adjudicators assessment and Ive explained why 
below. 
Morses asked Ms S about her income for both loans, and she declared she was in receipt of 
benefits, receiving at least £107 per week, and after her outgoings Morses believed that Ms 
S had at least £62.50 to make her repayment of no more than £7.50. Therese loans 
therefore looked affordable. 
A credit check was also carried out (before loan 1 only), and the results of this check have 
been provided to the Financial Ombudsman. Having reviewed the results there wasnt 
anything that wouldve given Morses cause for concern such as County Court Judgements, 
defaults or delinquent accounts. 
Overall, the income and expenditure information along with the credit checks shows that Ms 
S was likely to be able to afford her loan repayments. Morses was entitled to rely on the 
information it was given and so a proportionate check, in my view was carried out. I do not uphold Ms S complaint about these loans. 
Loans 3 - 5 
For these loans, the adjudicator thought Morses ought to have carried out further checks  
but as she didnt have anything from either Ms S or her representative about her actual 
financial position at the time, she wasnt able to uphold the complaint about these loans. 
Ive thought about everything that has been said and I do think further checks needed to 
have been carried out before these loans were approved. I agree, and Ive explained why 
below.
For each of these loans, Morses took details of Ms S income and expenditure details. Her 
income in this period fluctuated between £103 and £146 per week and Morses does appear 
to have been aware the sole source of income was from benefits. 
Based on her expenditure and her commitments to Morses  Ms S appeared to have just 
about enough money to be able to afford her weekly commitment. Especially as according to 
the statement of account, there didnt appear to have been any missed payments or 
payment problems. 
But given the irregular income amounts, the source of the income, the fact that Ms S was 
returning for new loans usually on the same day that a previous loan was repaid ought to 
have prompted Morses to consider whether it knew enough about Ms S true financial 
position. 
I therefore think it wouldve been reasonable for Morses to have carried out further checks to 
have verified the information Ms S provided about her income and expenditure information. 
This couldve been done in several ways, such as asking for evidence of her outgoings, or 
looking at bank statements and/or Ms S full credit file or any other documentation Ms S 
couldve provided.  
However, that isnt the end of the matter. For me to be able to uphold the loan, I have to be 
satisfied that had Morses carried out what I consider to be a proportionate check it wouldve 
likely discovered that Ms S couldnt afford these loans.
Ms S representative hasnt provided a full copy of her credit file but screen shots of parts of 
the credit file have been provided. However, what these screen shots show are Ms S 
current commitments to things such as mobile phone contract. What I dont know, (because 
the screen shots dont provide that information) is the start date of the credit  so whether it 
was outstanding at the time these loans were granted and if so, what Ms S commitments 
were. So, while I have been given some information, in this case it isnt enough to be able to 
uphold these loans. 
On top of this, we havent seen copy bank statements covering the period leading up to 
these loans being advanced. Without anything further, I cant be sure what Morses may have 
seen had it carried out better checks. So, I cant fairly uphold the complaint about loans 3  5 
either.  
Loans 6  9 
Morses has already accepted that something went wrong when these loans were approved 
because it has made an offer to pay compensation to Ms S. As Morses has offered to pay compensation then there is no longer any dispute as to whether these loans ought to have 
been approved. 
As of August 2022, Morses says the refund will repay the balances Ms S owes on loans 8 
and 9 and then with 8% simple interest as well as tax deducted this would leave an amount 
of £232 to be paid directly to Ms S. 
Ive therefore not investigated these loans further, but Ive included below, in the putting 
things right part of my decision, what Morses needs to do in order to put things right for Ms 
S. 
Morses statement of account does show that there was an outstanding balance that has 
been sold to a third party. Ms S says this isnt reflected in her credit file and that the balance 
may have been repaid. 
However, the screen shots that have been provided about some Morses accounts only show 
that they are closed. There also isnt any information about the start date, so its possible 
that these Morses loans that Ive seen in the screen shots are earlier loans that Ms S was 
able to successful repay. So, the screen shots dont change my view that an outstanding 
balance remains. 
In addition, Ive also not been provided with any information which suggests Ms S has repaid 
the third party directly. If Ms S has repaid the third party than that will be reflected in the 
refund Morses is due to make. 
However, based on the information that has been provided and as part of what Morses 
needs to do in order to put things right it can deduct from any refund the amount of 
outstanding capital that is due (if relevant). This is entirely consistent with the approach the 
Financial Ombudsman takes when asking a lender to put something right. 
Other considerations
I appreciate that part of Ms S unhappiness with the offer Morses has made is down to her 
partners complaint and the redress they received. What I would add is that each case is 
based on its individual circumstances. Any outcome is based on a number of factors  such 
as but not limited to the number of loans, value of those loans, the term and what the lender 
knew about borrower at the time. 
Therefore, it isnt appropriate for me to comment on what Ms S partner may have received 
But taking the individual circumstances of this case as well as the evidence with which Ive 
been provided,  upholding loans 6  9 is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Firstly, Id like to thank Ms S for her candour and for providing me with all the information 
I asked for about the nature of her health problems. I appreciate that it may not have been 
easy for her and its clear, from what she told me that shes had a difficult time. I do hope that 
her situation improves.  
But I do now, have a fairly clear idea of the problems Ms S faces. Given these were home 
collected loans, I do think its likely that the agent ought to have been aware of Ms S physical 
problems especially in light of the comments shes provided about the adaptations that have 
been made to her home. 
However, after making further enquires with Morses it says there isnt anything noted on the 
systems about Ms S health problems and or how that may impact in her taking these loans. 
But that doesnt mean Morses ought to not have been aware of Ms S health conditions as Ive said at the very least given what Ms S has said  Morses ought to have been aware of 
the reason why she was in receipt of benefits. 
It also seems, based on the information that Morses provided that it was aware of Ms S was 
in receipt of benefits. But that doesnt mean Morses shouldnt or couldnt approve the loans 
for her. 
The guidance  contained within the Consumer Credit Sourcebook does provide guidance 
as to how a lender deals with mental capacity issues  as Ms S has suggested because her 
partner paid her loans. But, the guidance is clear that this doesnt mean (if Morses was 
aware) that it shouldnt automatically decline the loan(s). Indeed, the guidance says;
CONC 2.10.9G
(1) A firm should not unfairly discriminate against a customer who it understands, or 
reasonably suspects, has a mental capacity limitation, in particular, by inappropriately 
denying the customer access to credit
Having weighed everything up in this case, I cant say that Morses was automatically wrong 
to have approved these loans, due to Ms S health conditions. Although, as Ive said above, 
it ought to have prompted it to have carried out further checks, but I dont have enough 
information to make a finding on what Morses may have discovered. 
Ms S also says that her partner would sort out her payments  partially she says that she 
wasnt mentally capable of dealing with the loan repayments. Ive asked Morses some 
further information about this and it has told us:
 the payments were usually made by card over the phone on a Friday and it was 
usually Ms S [full name removed] partner who made the payments as he also had an 
account so paid them both at the same time.
So, it does seem that Morses, was, for some of the loans aware that Ms S partner was 
making at least some of the payments towards them. But from Morses notes and what it 
said above, it isnt clear whether these payments were made by her partner for convenience 
and or there was some other agreement between Ms S and her partner. 
Given, the loans were paid on time  apart from the last two. I dont think, in this case, who 
paid the loans has made a difference. After all, Ms S is free to use the refund to offset any 
payments her partner made for her. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened if it hadnt lent loans 6 - 9, as Im satisfied it ought not to have. Clearly there 
are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Ms S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, she may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, she may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e., for more or less borrowing). But even if she had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how she would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Ms S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Ms S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morsess liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have provided Ms S with loans 6 - 9. 
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If Morses isnt able to buy the debts back, then it should liaise 
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A. Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Ms S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything Morses has have already refunded.
B. Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms 
S which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms S originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on loans 8 and 
9, and treat any repayments made by Ms S as though they had been repayments of 
the principal on these loans. If this results in Ms S having made overpayments then 
Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B 
and move to step E.
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on loans 8 and 9. If this results in a 
surplus then the surplus should be paid to Ms S. However, if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Ms S. Morses shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has 
already written-off. 
E. The overall pattern of Ms S borrowing for loans 6 - 9 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so Morses should remove these loans entirely from 
Ms S credit file. Morses do not have to remove loans 8 and 9 from Ms S credit file 
until these have been 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Ms S a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im upholding Ms Ss complaint in part.
 
Morses Club PLC should put things right for Ms S as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman