DRN-3443314
The complaint
Ms K is unhappy Equifax Limited had incorrect information about her on her credit file.
What happened
Ms K says she holds an account with Equifax where shes able to see her credit file. In 
August 2021, Ms K says she saw some accounts, as well as an address, on her credit file 
which didnt belong to her. Ms K later found out these accounts were her sisters. Ms K says 
this was concerning to her as these werent her accounts and feels Equifax have breached 
data protection laws by showing her sisters details on her credit file.
Ms K says this caused her a lot of stress at the time and that it affected her credit report. So, 
Ms K has asked for compensation for the stress caused to her and her sister.
Equifax looked into Ms Ks concerns. They said they could see the information on Ms Ks 
credit file was as a result of an error in their data matching system. As there were similarities 
in Ms Ks details and her sisters, this led to information being incorrectly linked to Ms K. In 
order to resolve Ms Ks concerns, they loaded a Notice of Dissociation (NoD) to their 
database  this notice was added to ensure all of Ms Ks information was separated from her 
sisters and to prevent any potential reoccurrence of this issue. However, even after the NoD 
was loaded, Ms K said her sisters information was still appearing. Equifax made an 
adjustment to the date of birth information on Ms Ks credit file in an attempt to resolve this 
issue. Equifax then reviewed an updated version of Ms Ks credit report in October 2021 and 
confirmed her sisters data was no longer appearing. For the distress and inconvenience 
caused, Equifax offered Ms K £150 compensation.
Unhappy with Equifaxs response, Ms K asked our service to look into her concerns. Our 
Investigator said she recognised the NoD wasnt effective when Equifax first loaded it in 
August 2021. But that they were able to resolve this in the end. Our Investigator also said 
that she couldnt look at the distress and inconvenience Ms Ks sister may have suffered and 
was only able to look into the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms K. As a result, our 
Investigator said £150 was fair compensation.
Ms K disagreed. In summary, she said she didnt think the £150 compensation reflected the 
data breach that was caused nor the difficult position this issue put Ms K in. Ms K also 
reiterated she had to ask Equifax to remove her sisters information twice, so she doesnt 
feel Equifaxs systems and processes are adequate. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Equifax have acknowledged something went wrong and that Ms Ks sisters details were 
incorrectly matched to hers which caused accounts to show up that werent Ms Ks. So, 
given Equifax acknowledge an error was made, whats left for me to decide is whether 
Equifax have done enough to put things right for Ms K. And whether they need to do 
anything more.
I can see from Equifaxs internal notes that they added a NoD on 24 August 2021 in order to 
remove Ms Ks sisters accounts from Ms Ks credit file. However, Ms K got back in touch 
with Equifax to say the accounts were still appearing. So, Im persuaded that the NoD 
Equifax initially loaded didnt remove Ms Ks sisters information from her credit file. I dont 
find it likely Ms K would have raised this again with Equifax had the NoD been successful. 
And I understand this was an inconvenience for Ms K.
I appreciate it was frustrating for Ms K to have to raise with Equifax again that her sisters 
information was appearing on her credit file. However, I can see from the internal notes that 
Equifax looked into things for Ms K when she made them aware it was still appearing. And 
they made an adjustment soon after Ms K raised her concerns, which seemed to fix the 
issue of Ms Ks sisters information appearing on her credit file. Additionally, I can see from 
the notes that Equifax checked Ms Ks credit file in October 2021 and confirmed her sisters 
information was no longer on Ms Ks credit file. I note Ms K hasnt mentioned her sisters 
information continued to appear, even after Equifax made the adjustment. Therefore, I think 
on balance, the adjustment Equifax made rectified this issue for Ms K.
Ms K says it was worrying for her to find accounts on her credit file that didnt appear to be 
hers. And that this impacted her credit file. Im sorry to read of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Ms K and can appreciate the worry this caused her. I can also 
understand Ms Ks point that it put her in a difficult position with her sister when letting her 
know that her information was appearing on Ms Ks credit file. Having carefully thought about 
all of this, I think £150 compensation is fair in the circumstances.
I note Ms K says this is a data breach of her sisters information and that she wants 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused to her sister. I appreciate Ms Ks 
concerns for her sisters information; however, I can only look at the impact of Equifaxs error 
on Ms K and not her sister. Unfortunately, it was Ms Ks sisters information that was shared 
with Ms K, so Im not persuaded that it was a breach of Ms Ks personal information.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman