DRN-3408448
The complaint
Miss G complains that Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) incorrectly changed her 
address without being told to, causing her inconvenience and distress. She would like 
compensation for this.
What happened
Miss Gs workplace pension was with Scottish Widows. She also had bank accounts with the 
Lloyds Banking Group, which owns Scottish Widows. Miss G contacted Lloyds to discuss a 
banking matter. When confirming her details Miss G says she was shocked to be told an 
address unknown to her was recorded as her address. With her actual address recorded as 
being her previous residence. Miss G says Lloyds fraud team became involved and she was 
kept on the phone for around two hours while the issue was investigated and corrected. 
Lloyds couldnt advise how her address had come to be changed.
Miss G says she recalled that Scottish Widows were part of the Lloyds group. She called it 
and it confirmed it also had the same incorrect address for her. It said it would investigate. A 
week later Scottish Widows emailed Miss G saying a request had been made by her 
employer to change her address. She checked with her employer who said it hadnt updated 
her address. Miss G says she was very concerned by this and contacted Scottish Widows 
and made a complaint.
A few days later Scottish Widows said Miss G had changed the address herself through her 
banking app earlier in the year. Miss G said this wasnt the case. Then having looked into 
her complaint, Scottish Widows wrote to her a few weeks later accepting that it had made an 
error. 
It said a manual error had been made when updating addresses for other members of Miss 
Gs workplace pension. It apologised for the inconvenience caused and paid £200 in 
compensation. Miss G didnt think this was sufficient. She asked why Scottish Widows hadnt 
reported the data breach to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). It said it didnt 
think the error had been significant enough to warrant a report to the ICO, but if offered a 
further £100 in compensation.
Miss G referred her complaint to our service and our investigator looked into it, but he didnt 
uphold it.
He said Scottish Widows accepted it had made an error and had apologised. He said he 
understood why Miss G had been concerned. And, that it was fair Scottish Widows should 
pay compensation for the trouble an upset it had caused. But he said the £300 it had already 
paid was fair compensation for what had happened.
Miss G disagreed. She said it wasnt right that two companies could exchange sensitive 
information behind my back without confirming the changes with her. She said only luck 
had led her to contact Lloyds and discover the problem and it was wrong that our service 
wouldnt sanction Scottish Widows. 
As Miss G doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
I understand why Miss G was concerned and agree she was inconvenienced by what 
happened.
However, the role of our service is to resolve complaints impartially, we dont regulate 
businesses, which is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. That means I cant tell 
Scottish Widows or the wider Lloyds Banking Group to change administrative procedures or 
impose sanctions on it even if I think there have been failings. What I can consider is 
whether a businesss mistakes caused someone a financial loss and/or distress and 
inconvenience and, if so, what the business needs to do to put things right. 
Here, its clear Scottish Widows made an error. It then compounded this by providing 
incorrect explanations about what had happened. But I think it corrected the actual error 
promptly (once it knew about it) and having apologised, it has paid fair compensation overall 
in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive thought about what impact the error has had on Miss G. It caused her concern, but she 
wasnt aware there was an issue until she contacted Lloyds. Lloyds appears to have 
corrected the problem on its side on the same day. And once Miss G contacted Scottish 
Widows it also resolved the issue within a few days. 
So, once the problem had been identified it was quickly rectified rather than becoming a 
prolonged issue. That Miss G was concerned about possible fraud and felt the need to keep 
checking her details on her banking app is understandable. But I think the error caused her 
inconvenience for a relatively short period of time. 
Miss G says this was a serious data breach and that Scottish Widows should pay her 
£20,000 in compensation. But Scottish Widows has confirmed that no sensitive information 
was sent to the incorrect address and it doesnt appear that any problems with fraud or 
identity theft have arisen as a consequence of its error. And our service considers it fair to 
award compensation for what has happened rather than what might have happened.
Taking all these factors into account I think the £300 Scottish Widows has already paid in 
compensation for the trouble and upset suffered is fair in the circumstances of this 
complaint. It is in keeping with the level of awards our service has made in similar situations. 
So, whilst Scottish Widows did make an error, I think it was resolved promptly. And, as I 
think it has already paid fair compensation for what happened, it neednt do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman