DRN-1637475
 
The complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr B took out a PPI policy around the same time as he applied for a mortgage in 1995. He 
recalls the mortgage was arranged through a third party. I don't have any details of that third 
party's involvement, but Halifax accepts it sold the PPI to Mr B and I think that's probably 
right. It can't confirm how or where the sale took place though, and nor can Mr B, so I have 
reviewed it based on the available information. The policy gave Mr B accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover. He paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagreed so 
the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete (as 
some of it is here) I've made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. So I've had 
to reach a view on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence 
and what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.  
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make clear the PPI was optional and Mr B had to agree to take it out. Mr B 
says he wasnt told PPI was being added to his mortgage. I cant know what was said at the 
time of the sale, there are no meeting notes or records available, and Halifax doesn't have 
copies of any paperwork from the sale. But that's not surprising or unreasonable given how 
long ago it was.
It's not easy in cases like this where the information is limited. I have to decide what I think is 
most likely. Halifax says that Mr B's explicit consent will have been obtained before the sale 
was concluded. I have thought carefully about everything Mr B has told us. And whilst I dont 
doubt these are his honest recollections, I have to take into account that the sale was 25 
years ago and how this might affect what he now remembers.
Overall, I think it's likely Halifax made clear the PPI was optional and Mr B agreed to take it. 
From what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time, as PPI was set up on his 
account he would've signed an application form and a separate bank mandate. I do 
understand he might not recall this given how long ago it was. In order to be fair to Mr B, I've assumed Halifax recommended the PPI to him - so it had to 
check that the PPI was right for him. I know he feels strongly that he didnt need it. But 
based on what I know of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was suitable. Mr B says 
he was entitled to six months' full pay and six months' half pay if he was sick, had a secure 
job and a generous redundancy package of one month's salary for every year of service. But 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 months for all 
successful claims. It would have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment, 
giving increased financial stability at an already difficult time whilst he wasn't working.
Mr B also said he had savings worth around £20,000 to £25,000 but, understandably, he no 
longer has any records. So I can't be certain of the level of his savings at the time of the 
sale, or that they were of such a value that he didn't have a need for PPI. The PPI would 
have allowed him to use any savings to cover other living expenses whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for his future needs. The fact that he seemingly didn't use his savings to 
reduce his mortgage suggests to me that he wanted to do that. And Mr B was borrowing a 
large sum over a long period, secured on his home. So the effects of not keeping up the 
repayments could have been serious for him. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful 
for Mr B if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job.   
Mr B says he was told nothing about the PPI  and he never received a policy document. I 
accept its possible Halifax didnt give Mr B all the information he needed in order to make an 
informed decision. For example, I don't know when the cost was first made clear. But the 
PPI was competitively priced and apparently affordable for him. And I dont know that 
Halifax pointed out all the main things the PPI didnt cover. But Mr B doesnt appear to have 
been affected by any of the likely main exclusions or limitations. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI wouldve changed his mind about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr B has lost out because of any problems with this sale. I know Mr B 
has said Halifax upheld a loan PPI complaint he made but I can only comment here on 
the circumstances of this complaint. We assess each complaint on its individual merits. And 
the outcome of PPI complaints will vary based on a number of factors including, but not 
limited to, the credit product, the policy terms and conditions, the cost and benefits, and how 
it was sold - as well as the customer's circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman