DRN-2619201
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined his claim for the
theft of his boat, under his boat insurance policy.
When I refer to RSA, Im also referring to any of their appointed agents or representatives.
What happened
Mr M had his boat insured with RSA. Towards the end of August 2019, Mr M used his boat
during the day and left it securely moored to a buoy in a harbour overnight.
When he returned to the harbour a couple of days later, the boat had been stolen. Mr M
attempted to locate the boat himself but was unsuccessful. He notified the police a few days
later and raised a claim with RSA in early September.
RSA subsequently declined the claim. Mr M had specified on his policy that his boat would
be moored ashore, and the location of the mooring was his home. RSA pointed out that one
of the general exclusions on Mr Ms policy confirmed they wouldnt be liable for any loss or
damage that happened while the vehicle was afloat and unattended, unless it was at the
moored location as stated in the policy documents.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and complained to RSA. He said that he thought the policy
wording was unclear. He also said it was reasonable to expect a boat would be left
unattended whilst afloat, as it was a vessel used to transport people and things on the water.
He asked RSA to re-consider their decision.
RSA didnt change their mind, so Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator
upheld the complaint and asked RSA to settle the claim. She also asked RSA to pay £50
compensation to Mr M. She said that, although the general exclusion wasnt unreasonable,
she didnt think it had been applied fairly in Mr Ms case. She said it should have been
brought to his attention.
RSA didnt agree. Because of this, it was passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional 
decision on 18 February 2021. It said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not minded to ask
RSA to accept the claim or pay compensation. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms policy includes several General Exclusions, which apply to the whole of his policy.
The General Exclusion that RSA have relied upon to decline Mr Ms claim is;
Any loss or damage occurring whilst Your Vessel is left afloat when unattended, 
unless at the moored location shown in Your Policy Documents
So, I have to decide if RSA have acted fairly in applying this exclusion. I think it has in this
case.
Mr M has confirmed that he specified on his insurance application that the boat would be
moored ashore and at his home address. The above exclusion makes it clear to Mr M that
his boat wouldnt be covered were it left anywhere else unattended - Im satisfied that this is
a significant exclusion as it limits the cover that Mr M has on the policy based on the
information hes provided. And I would expect any significant exclusions to be shown on a
Key Facts Document  RSA have been unable to provide this document.
But I also have to consider if the policy documents are clear and whether Mr M should have
been aware. Mr M has pointed out that theft and loss or damage are two separate sections
of the policy wording  and he feels that, as the general exclusion refers to any loss or
damage, and doesnt include theft, its ambiguous. But I dont agree.
Before the policy wording defines any of the details of the cover provided, it lists several
Important Features. One of those is:
Conditions and Exclusions: Conditions and Exclusions will apply to individual sections of
the Insurance while general conditions and exclusions will apply to the whole insurance.
In his complaint submission to our service, Mr M confirmed that he found a policy that he
was happy with and he was satisfied that it provided the cover he needed, having consulted
the main parts of the policy. I consider the Important Features and General Exclusions to be
main parts of the policy  as Mr M has confirmed he had checked the policy and was
satisfied with it, I cant conclude that the policy document wasnt clear to him.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr M. But, as it stands, Im not asking RSA to
settle the claim. As I think theyve declined the claim fairly, Im not recommending any
compensation to Mr M either.
RSA accepted my provisional findings and had nothing further to add. 
Mr M also responded. He said that he had selected the option that most suited his 
requirements and how he would use the boat, when he had bought the policy. He continued 
to say that he still believed the General Exclusion applied should have been contained within 
the Theft section of the policy booklet if it applies to theft as well as loss or damage. 
Lastly, he said that I hadnt reasoned my conclusion when I said that the General Exclusion 
includes theft as well as loss or damage. Mr M feels that, taking the policy at face value, the 
General Exclusion should only be applied to the loss or damage section of the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M chose the option he thought most suited his requirements when he 
purchased the policy. But those concerns relate to the sale of the policy. RSA arent 
responsible for the sale of the policy and Im not considering that as part of this complaint. 
RSA are the underwriters and are responsible for declining Mr Ms claim. My role is to decide 
if they have done that fairly, and my provisional decision explains why I think they have. 
My provisional decision also explains why Ive decided the General Exclusions apply to the 
whole of the policy. The conditions and exclusions part of the policy, at the start of the policy 
booklet before any specific cover is mentioned, explains that the general exclusions apply to 
the whole of the insurance. And the general exclusion itself explains that any loss or damage would not be covered in the circumstances mentioned within Mr Ms claim. I accept 
that the policy booklet does also define the cover applicable for theft and loss or damage 
separately, but the exclusion confirms any loss or damage. As theft is a loss, the general 
exclusion applies to this aspect too. 
And as Mr M has confirmed to our service, he was satisfied the policy met his requirements 
and he read the main parts of the policy before taking the decision to purchase it. Ive 
already explained that Im satisfied the Conditions and Exclusions and General Exclusions 
make up main parts of the policy, so I cant decide they werent clear to Mr M. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman