DRN-4014408
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont allow him to deposit a travellers cheque 
with them that was issued by them several years earlier. 
What happened
Mr P says that roughly 15 years ago he was issued a travellers cheque by Barclays. As Mr P 
didnt use it on the trip he took he kept the travellers cheque. As he doesnt intend to use it 
now he tried to deposit it back to his Barclays account, but they told him they dont handle 
travellers cheques in the currency the cheque was in. Mr P made a complaint to Barclays. 
Barclays did not uphold Mr Ps complaint, so he brought his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator did not uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said Barclays confirmed that they stopped 
taking the currency the travellers cheque was in and this wouldve been a commercial 
decision that we dont have the power to change. Mr P asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. He said he doesnt accept that Barclays can renege on a formal obligation, by 
simply changing a policy and he wanted his complaint looked at as a question of fair 
treatment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to explain to Mr P that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their processes or procedures such as which travellers cheques in which currency to accept. 
It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who have the power 
to instruct Barclays to make changes to their policies and procedures, if necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr P has said about Barclays reneging on a formal obligation. But Im 
not persuaded by this. Their obligation was to issue the travellers cheque in the currency Mr 
P asked them to. And they did this. They are not obligated to accept the travellers cheque 
back a considerable number of years later, when they made a business decision not to 
accept travellers cheques in the currency that Mr Ps travellers cheque was issued in. As 
travellers cheques have no expiry date, then Mr Ps travellers cheque would still be valid. So 
although he is unable to deposit this with Barclays, it appears via a quick online search that 
there are other places he may be able to deposit his travellers cheque in the currency it was 
issued in, so he may wish to explore these options. But as Barclays have not made an error 
here, it follows I dont require Barclays to do anything further.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman