DRN-1586026
The complaint
Mr T says The Co-operative Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out on the phone, with the agreement sent for 
signature by post, in 2001. The policy was taken out at the same time as Mr T applied for a 
credit card. It gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr T disagreed so the complaint was passed to
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here) I have based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr T says he was told he had to have PPI, without it his application would be 
declined. The Co-operative Bank disputes this. There is no call recording available so 
I cant know how the PPI was presented to Mr T. But I can see from the application
form he signed that a box is ticked indicating he wanted to take the cover. And the 
options to select or decline PPI were set out with equal prominence. There is nothing 
on the form that I think could have reasonably led Mr T to believe he had to select 
PPI. Mr T asked for a paper copy of his form to be sure the bank hadnt altered 
anything on the electronic copy. But he hasnt provided any details as to why he 
thinks this could be the case. And I havent found any evidence to suggest that his 
agreement has been changed in any way. So I think its reasonable to rely on the 
electronic copy we have. 
Overall, Im satisfied the bank made it clear to Mr T that he had a choice about PPI 
and he agreed to take it out. 
The Co-operative Bank recommended the PPI to Mr T, so it had to check if the policy 
was suitable for him. Based on what I know of his circumstances at the time I think it 
was. Hes told us he wasnt entitled to any sick pay and the PPI would have paid out 
for all successful accident and sickness claims for up to 24 months. It also gave him 
up to 18 months redundancy cover. This would have allowed him to protect any lump 
sum redundancy payment from his employer giving increased stability at an already 
difficult time. Mr T cant recall if he had savings at the time, but the PPI would have 
allowed him to use any savings to cover other living costs whilst not working, or to 
keep them intact for his future needs. He said family would have helped but thats not 
suitable alternative protection as its not guaranteed, and peoples circumstances can 
change. Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful for Mr T if he was sick or lost 
his job.
The bank also had to give Mr T enough clear information so he could make an
informed decision. I agree its possible it didnt do this. But Mr T chose to take out the 
policy and so appears to have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations. And the policy was reasonably priced for the benefit it 
offered and apparently affordable. So based on the available evidence, I cant fairly 
conclude Mr T wouldve made a different decision if better information had been 
provided.
It follows that I dont think Mr T has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
Mr T asked why the bank has upheld his other PPI complaints and why would this one be 
different. I can only comment here on the individual merits of this case, but would say that 
the outcome of PPI complaints can vary based on a number of factors including  but not 
limited to  how the policy was sold, its cost and benefit level, the terms and conditions, and 
the credit product it covered. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman