DRN-3862299
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) declined his claim under his 
home insurance policy following a burglary at his property.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term Ageas includes its agents and claims handlers in this 
decision letter.
What happened
Mr M unfortunately suffered a burglary at his home in May 2022. He was insured with Ageas 
at the relevant time. He reported the burglary to Ageas and provided a list of the stolen items 
and their approximate value. Ageas asked Mr M to provide evidence of purchase or 
ownership of the items in the form of receipts or images. Mr M advised Ageas that this was 
difficult as the items had been purchased a long time ago, however he agreed to look and 
was able to send some pictures of the certain items being worn.
In July 2022, Mr M complained about having to provide evidence of ownership for his claim 
to be settled, however was later able to send comparison website links for the brands of the 
stolen items. Ageas considered that the information wasnt sufficient to be able to uphold the 
claim. Mr M was unhappy with this outcome and referred his complaint to this service.
The services investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She considered that Mr M hadnt 
been able to provide sufficient evidence including website links for the items stolen. She 
considered that Ageas had reasonably requested this information. Whilst our investigator 
appreciated the difficulty in providing evidence of ownership and the value of historic items, 
she thought the requirement was clearly stated in the policy document and that Mr M hadnt 
been able to satisfy the requirement to enable the claim to be settled by Ageas. She noted 
however that Ageas had stated that if it received further proof of ownership from Mr M, it 
would re-evaluate the claim.
Mr M remained unhappy with the outcome of his complaint. The matter has therefore been 
referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The central issue for me to determine in this case is whether Ageas applied the terms and 
conditions of its policy and acted in a fair and reasonable manner in declining Mr Ms claim. I 
consider that it has done so, and Ill explain why. 
I firstly consider Mr Ms submissions. He said he reported the burglary to the police on the 
same day and also took images of the house as he said it had been ransacked. Damage to 
the window and door of the property was repaired under Mr Ms buildings insurance policy. 
However, he said that Ageas asked for evidence of purchase of the items which he simply 
didnt have. The items were expensive, however some were purchased many years 
previously, so he didnt have receipts and didnt have photographs. Ageas had asked him to 
find similar items online and he tried his best to do this by sending weblinks but stated that 
the price wouldnt be accurate as hed paid considerably less for the items at the time. He 
provided the prices at which he said hed bought each item.
Mr M made it clear that he was in no way claiming that these are the exact items apart from 
the photographs that I have attached. He also said; Bear in mind the same models are no 
longer made Finally he provided a few pictures of his family wearing certain items and also 
a photograph of a watch box.
I now turn to what Ageas has to say about the matter. It said it hadnt upheld the complaint 
due to the policy requirements. It said that some of the photographs were very useful an 
showed some of the items being worn. It confirmed that other evidence which it could accept 
were receipts, online order e-mails, original boxes, manuals or paperwork that might have 
been included, bank statements showing the items being purchased or valuations completed 
by reputable valuers. It said it would do everything it could to settle Mr Ms claim swiftly on 
receipt of these items and online links for the replacement items.
Ive considered these submissions very carefully and the starting point in considering this 
matter is the wording of the policy itself. I note that the policy booklet stated;Youll need to 
provide details of everything thats been lost, stolen or damaged, and we may ask for 
receipts or proof of purchase in some cases. This is not an unusual provision in home 
insurance policies to validate claims and to prevent fraud. Ive also listened to relevant 
telephone calls and note that Ageas explained in the initial call what type of evidence it 
required to process a claim. I consider that this therefore conforms with Ageas standard 
procedure in processing claims and would apply in all cases.
I have considerable sympathy for Mr M and his family as theyve clearly lost a number of 
valuable items during a burglary, and this would have been a traumatic and distressing 
experience. I nevertheless understand Ageas requirements for evidence of purchase and 
loss of items so that it could appropriately process and validate the claim.
In this case, whilst Mr M has made efforts to produce some photographic evidence of the 
lost items, hes been unable to produce any written evidence of purchase or ownership. I can 
understand that this may be due to having owned many of the items for a considerable 
period of time. Ageas have requested clearer evidence and has explained a wide range of 
evidence that it would consider to be acceptable. I note that Ageas has stated that if it 
received further proof of ownership from Mr M, it would re-evaluate the claim. I would expect 
it to honour this commitment, however in the absence of any further evidence, Im unable to 
say at this time that Ageas has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner.
Unfortunately, the list of lost items does not provide clear and specific details of some of the 
jewellery items. Also brands of watches have been supplied but without specific details of 
the serial numbers or models. These details havent then been linked to the photographs. An 
effort has been made to compare certain weblink items with lost items and to then provide 
brief details of the lost items, however there is generally a lack of clarity within the evidence 
provided. Some of the photographs arent particularly clear and the photograph of a watch 
box hasnt been linked to any specific watch thats been stolen. No documentary evidence in 
the form of receipts, guarantees or bank statements has been supplied to prove purchase.
Unfortunately for Mr M, on the basis of the evidence supplied to date, I cant say that Ageas 
has acted in an unfair or unreasonable manner, and I consider this decision to be a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the current complaint.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Ageas Insurance 
Limited and dont require Ageas to do anything else in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman