DRN-3996616
The complaint
Mr S complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a windscreen claim under his motor insurance policy. 
For ease of reading any reference to Advantage includes the actions of its agents which it is 
responsible for.
What happened
Mr S made a claim under his car insurance policy in relation to a replacement windscreen. 
Unfortunately, Advantages windscreen repairer wasnt able to replace the screen due to a 
spoiler on the car which it wasnt able to remove and replace. 
Mr S went on to contact a manufacturers dealership and it was agreed the spoiler would be 
removed ready for Advantages windscreen repairer to replace the screen. However, it 
transpired that the quote to remove the spoiler was incorrect and it would cost around 
£1,000 more than had been quoted which Advantage felt was too high. It asked Mr S to gain 
further quotations and Mr S went on to get his car fixed at another windscreen specialist and 
Advantage paid Mr S the cost incurred. And it went on to pay around £160 in 
acknowledgement of the delay and hassle Mr S faced. But Mr S didnt feel this was sufficient 
for the inconvenience he faced and the fact that he felt he couldnt use his car. So, he 
complained to this Service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
accepted that Mr S had been put to a great deal of inconvenience and had to do the legwork 
to get his car fixed she thought its offer of compensation was fair. 
As Mr S didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr S frustration here as he just thought his screen would be replaced quite 
quickly when he made a claim under his policy. However, because of the way a spoiler was 
attached to the car, which affected the fitting of the screen by Advantages repairer, this 
wasnt possible. Unfortunately, I think this was always going to create a fair degree of 
inconvenience, but I think Advantages offer of compensation seems fair. Ill explain why.
Advantage has a commercial agreement with its chosen repairer in order to replace 
windscreens and most times this isnt a difficult or complicated process. It is unfortunate that 
this process was complicated on this occasion and I can see Advantage was trying to avoid 
Mr S having to make a full fault claim on his policy if it had to involve one of its mechanical 
repairers as well in resolving the claim (as opposed to just a windscreen claim). And had the 
quotation Mr S originally gained from the vehicle manufacturer dealership been correct Im 
sure the claim would have been resolved in a timelier manner.
However, Advantage acted reasonably in agreeing to pay the costs Mr S incurred to have 
the screen replaced which was fair in the circumstances. And it has paid Mr S £160 in 
acknowledgement of the inconvenience caused. I know Mr S feels he should be paid more 
but I think this feels fair in the circumstances. Mr S felt that he couldnt use his car because 
of the windscreen problem but there was always going to be some delay in circumstances 
like these. And some of the delay was down to the car dealership providing an incorrect 
quotation for the removal of the spoiler which Advantage wasnt responsible for. 
Given all of this, and although I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr S, I wont be 
asking Advantage to increase the level of compensation offered. 
My final decision
It follows for the reasons given above, that I think Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds 
offer to pay £160 compensation is fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman