DRN-1179637
 
The complaint
Mrs T complains Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis sold her payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection with her credit card account.  
What happened
Mrs T applied for a credit card over the internet in 2009. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy to cover her credit card repayments. 
The policy cost £0.99 per £100 of the balance on Mrs Ts credit card. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months per claim if Mrs 
T was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ts complaint about the sale of PPI. Mrs T disagreed with 
the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ts complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
The policy was applied for online when Mrs T applied for a credit card. Barclays have given 
us a copy of the screen shots of the application form Mrs T wouldve seen and completed 
when she applied for her credit card.
I can see that theres a separate section on the application form that deals with PPI. 
Within this section it gives the option to either select yes or no for PPI as well as providing 
links for the terms and conditions on the policy. 
So I think its likely Mrs T had PPI because she selected to take it on the application form. If 
Mrs T didnt want to take out PPI she couldve selected not to take the cover. So I think Mrs 
T wouldve understood she had a choice in taking out the PPI and chose to take it because 
she wanted the cover.
Because the policy was taken over the internet I dont think Barclays recommended the PPI 
to Mrs T so it didnt have to check if it was right for her.
But it did have to make sure Mrs T got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover.And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T or 
refund any interest and charges applied to her credit card that may have been incurred 
because of those premiums.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
 
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs T, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman