DRN-3935411
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money he lost.
What happened
Mr R says that he wanted to replace sash windows at his home. He got quotes from a few 
companies including one Ill refer to in this decision as P in March 2021. P had a 
professional looking website, was listed on an online trade directory and had social media 
presence. Mr R placed an order with P and agreed to pay a 50% deposit. He paid £4,749.02 
on 7 June and the same amount on 30 June 2021. The windows were due to be 
manufactured and then fitted in around September 2021. A number of proposed installation 
dates werent honoured with P saying there were delays due to Covid and shortages of 
materials. P later stopped responding to Mr R.
Mr R did some online research and found that other customers had been treated in the same 
way after deposits had been paid. In January 2022 Mr R contacted Barclays to say he was 
the victim of a scam. Barclays investigated his concerns but said it had legal advice that said 
it should treat all claims against P as buyer/seller disputes. It said that at the time Mr R made 
his payments P was operating as a legitimate business and Ps intention wasnt to defraud 
Mr R. 
Mr R was unhappy with Barclays response and brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He said 
that Mr R had paid a legitimate company that had breached its contract with him. But this 
wasnt the same as intentionally setting out to take funds for a service P had no intention of 
providing. The evidence the investigator had reviewed led him to believe P was operating as 
a legitimate business when it took Mr Rs deposit and there was no fraud. 
Mr R didnt agree with the investigators view. Ive summarised the main points he made 
below:
- He is clearly the victim of a scam as when P took his money its directors never 
intended to make, supply or install the windows he paid for. His windows were due to 
be manufactured at the beginning of July but in January 2022 the workshop 
confirmed his order was never placed and the windows didnt exist. 
- P is still registered at Companies House and hasnt gone into liquidation. 
- Other customers didnt receive what they paid for and some of them have received a 
refund from Barclays. Mr R provided reviews from other dissatisfied customers who 
had paid deposits to P for services they were never provided with. 
- Mr R strongly believes his case should be considered under the CRM Code.
- The two payments he made were unusual and out of character so Barclays should 
have been aware he was at risk of financial harm. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
in other words on what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im sorry to hear that Mr R has lost money in these circumstances. Under the CRM Code, 
the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who is the victim of an APP 
scam (except in limited circumstances). But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt 
apply to all push payments. It says: 
This Code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid 
a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they 
are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
The CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers and does not cover situations where 
a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services and not received them. This 
amounts to a breach of contract which is a civil issue. The CRM Code only applies in very 
specific circumstances  where the customer has been the victim of an APP scam. Under 
the CRM Code, an APP scam is defined as:
 a transfer of fundswhere 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii)The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
At the time Mr R made the payments to P, P was registered at Companies House and had 
been since 2015. P had completed work for many customers and there were numerous 
positive reviews.  Ive also seen confidential information from Ps bank. I cant share any 
details with Mr R, but the information doesnt lead me to think its more likely than not that P 
wasnt a legitimate supplier or that Ps account was being used fraudulently. 
I turn now to Mr Rs comments that he was deceived into transferring funds, which he thinks 
amounts to fraud. He says P lied about his windows being manufactured, gave false 
installation dates and failed to provide any goods or services. I understand how disappointed 
Mr R must be that he has paid for goods and services hes not received but this doesnt 
mean that he has been induced to transfer funds for fraudulent reasons.
Fraudulent isnt defined in the CRM Code, but an ordinary meaning is something done or 
obtained through (usually) criminal deception. The CRM Code specifically excludes civil 
disputes, so I think I need to consider not simply whether P made any misleading claims but 
whether Mr R was induced to make payments for windows in circumstances more akin to 
criminal deception. Ive seen evidence that confirms that the police have investigated but 
arent taking matters further and other evidence I have seen doesnt lead me to believe P 
intended to take funds fraudulently. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr R was induced to transfer 
funds for reasons that were fraudulent. 
Mr R has said that Barclays should have noticed he was making unusual and out of 
character transactions and taken steps to protect him. Im not persuaded the transactions 
were so unusual that Barclays ought reasonably to have intervened. But even if they were, I 
dont consider any intervention would have made a difference in this case. If Barclays had 
discussed the reason for the payment with Mr R, he would have explained that hed paid a 
deposit to a known company that had been trading for some years and had good reviews. In 
the circumstances, there was no reason for Mr R or Barclays to have had concerns he might 
be falling victim to a scam. So I dont think that any intervention by Barclays would have 
prevented Mr Rs loss. Mr R has referred to the fact that other customers of P have received refunds from Barclays. 
I can only consider the individual circumstances of Mr Rs case and cannot comment on 
other customers cases. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman