DRN-3698692
The complaint
Mr W complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (HSDL) repeatedly made errors when 
carrying out his instructions to transfer shares between his share dealing accounts. 
What happened
Mr W regularly instructed HSDL every six months to transfer shares from his ShareBuilder 
account to his main Cash Management Account. He specifically asked each time (as he said 
HSDL had told him to following previous complaints) that the book cost be used for the 
transfer.
Mr W told us that these transfers always go wrong. 
Since July 2019, HSDL has not followed Mr Ws instructions to use book costs and instead 
used market costs when transferring shares from one account to another. 
Mr W explained to us that it meant he was unable to determine his level of profit/loss and put 
him at risk of inadvertently realising a paper loss which would be to his severe financial 
detriment.
To put things right, Mr W told HSDL he wanted it to reverse erroneous transfers and 
correctly carry out the transfers so his account was in the correct position. He wanted an 
explanation about what was going wrong and to know what HSDL was doing to ensure this 
didnt keep happening  along with an apology and compensation for distress and 
inconvenience.
When Mr W complained to HSDL, it didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. In final response letters 
sent on 23 March and 9 July 2021 it said there had been no breach of its customer 
agreement with Mr W and the transfer he made in January 2021 was completed in eight 
working days, which was a reasonable timeframe.
Mr W didnt feel his complaint had been properly addressed. On 22 July 2021, during a 
phone call with Mr W, HSDL explained a way that Mr W could set up regular investment in 
his Share Dealing Account that would avoid the need to do internal transfers - and not incur 
the problems hed been having. HSDL also confirmed it was upholding Mr Ws complaint 
about the shortfall in service he had experienced and offered to pay him £300 for distress 
and inconvenience.
Mr W didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so he brought his complaint to 
us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  
This prompted HSDL to look again at this complaint. HSDL sent Mr W a third final response 
letter in January 2022 upholding the complaint and offered to pay him a further £50 as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Our investigator felt that HSDL had made reasonable attempts to put things right for Mr W 
- it had offered him an alternative way to process his transfers and she felt that the £350 
redress offered in total was fair and reasonable. So she didnt recommend that HSDL 
needed to do anything more.
Mr W disagreed with our investigator. He feels that the redress offered falls well short of 
what is reasonable in these circumstances and that a much higher award would reflect the 
fact that these problems have been ongoing for several years. 
So as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Mr W that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr W had to contact HSDL on each occasion to rectify his account - which was done. But he 
is very concerned that the same problem kept happening. 
I can completely understand Mr Ws frustration at repeatedly finding that his transfer 
instructions werent being properly followed by HSDL  and I can appreciate this was 
problematic for him. It is evident that he was put to a lot of trouble and inconvenience trying 
to sort matters out each time. 
And, in coming to my decision, Ive taken into account that Mr W feels that HSDL didnt 
adequately accept that there were shortcomings as his complaint was rejected twice. He 
wants to know why no-one at HSDL would engage with him and why his original instruction 
was not carried out correctly, despite making it clear and advising exactly what should 
happen. 
Looked at overall, I think HSDLs suggestion about doing things differently avoids the need 
for Mr W to do internal transfers  which appears to be at the root of the problems hes had. 
Its my understanding that doing things the way HSDL has suggested will limit the scope for 
further problems of the sort that cropped up in Mr Ws previous dealings with HSDL. 
I appreciate its not the way Mr W asked HSDL to put things right, but I think HSDL proposed 
this in a genuine attempt to assist Mr W. If he hasnt already, I would encourage Mr W to try 
out HSDLs suggestion as it seems likely it could minimise the risk of further problems in 
future.  
Ive considered compensation for Mr W given the extent of the frustration and worry hes 
experienced as a result of HSDLs admitted service failings. I think that HSDLs offer of 
£350 overall is fair compensation to reflect the significant distress and inconvenience it 
caused Mr W resulting from its failure to process his share transfers in line with Mr Ws 
instructions and the delay in properly addressing his complaint.
As far as I can see, Mr W hasnt suffered a financial loss because of HSDLs handling of his 
share transfers. So, I havent seen enough to be able to say that any further award of 
compensation would be fair and reasonable. I find that a payment of £350 is fair redress 
overall.   
Mr W has raised several different complaint points over the course of this matter and 
I acknowledge that he feels very strongly about his complaint. I have concentrated on what 
I consider to be the main points that affect the outcome of his complaint. Whilst I appreciate that my decision might be disappointing for Mr W, I hope that setting things out as I've done 
helps to explain how I've reached my conclusions. 
My final decision
Halifax Share Dealing Limited has already made an offer to pay £350 in total to settle the 
complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. My final decision is that, if it 
hasnt already done so, Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr W £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman