DRN-3426620
Complaint
Ms G has complained about a loan AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant Credit) provided to her. 
She says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Avant Credit provided Ms G with a loan for £6,500.00 in June 2015. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 60 monthly instalments of just over £235. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Ms Gs complaint and she thought Avant Credit shouldnt 
have provided Ms G with this loan. So she thought that Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. 
Avant Credit disagreed so the case was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by saying that Ive seen Avant Credit has referred to this complaint having 
been made more than four years after it sold Ms G debt to a third-party debt purchaser. Its 
unclear why it has made reference to this, but for the sake of completeness and the 
avoidance of doubt, I want to make it clear that I dont think that Avant Credits decision to 
sell Ms Gs loan meant that she ought reasonably to have been aware of her cause for 
complaint at this stage.  
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Gs complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Avant Credit needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Avant Credit needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether    
Ms G could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much 
information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The credit check Avant Credit carried out clearly demonstrated that Ms G was significantly 
indebted. She was close to her limit on four credit cards. And she also appears to have had 
a significant history of payday type lending too. 
So Im persuaded by what Ms G has said about already being in a difficult financial position 
at the time. And while its possible her credit file reflected her choices rather than because 
she was struggling, Id add that my experience of these types of cases suggest this is 
unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from Avant Credit, Ive 
been persuaded to accept Ms Gs version of events. 
As this is the case, I do think that Ms Gs existing financial position meant that she was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Avant Credit that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Ms G. 
As Avant Credit provided Ms G with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to 
act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Ms G has ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan she shouldnt have been 
provided with. So Im satisfied that Ms G lost out because of what Avant Credit did wrong 
and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Avant Credit needs to do to put things right for Ms G
Having thought about everything, Avant Credit should put things right for Ms G by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Ms G made, whether to Avant Credit or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £6,500.00 originally lent. If 
Ms G has already repaid more than £6,500.00 then Avant Credit should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Ms G;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Ms G to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, all adverse 
information Avant Credit recorded about this loan should be removed from Ms Gs 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Avant Credit to take off tax from this interest. Avant 
Credit must give Ms G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for 
one.
Id also remind Avant Credit of its obligation to exercise forbearance and due consideration if 
it intends to collect on an outstanding balance, should it buy the debt back from any third-
party debt purchaser and one remains, after all adjustments have been made to the account 
and its the case that Ms G is experiencing financial difficulty.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Gs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022.
 Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman