DRN-4152061
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Lloyds Bank plc decided to block and close his current account. He 
also complains about the customer service issues he experienced following their decision to 
close his account.
What happened
On 13 June 2022, Lloyds Bank sent Mr H a letter to inform him that theyd carried out a risk 
assessment of the account which highlighted some concerns. And as a result, theyd taken 
the decision to close Mr Hs account in two months time. They explained theyd placed a 
block on the account to stop all transactions and Mr H would need to make other 
arrangements for any credits, direct debits or standing orders set up on the account, as no 
further payments would be made.
Lloyds Bank told Mr H that if his account had a credit balance, he should take their letter and 
visit a local branch along with identification documents. Hed also need to provide proof of 
where the credit balance had come from  for example, through wage slips or cheque 
verification. And if his account had a debit balance, Mr H had to make arrangements to 
repay the outstanding balance owed within two months. If he wasnt able to do so, he should 
take their letter and visit a branch to discuss this further.
On 17 June 2022, Mr H called Lloyds Bank and he was allowed to transfer all the funds in 
his account amounting to £1,500.63 to an account he held at a different bank as it was an 
existing payee on the account. 
Mr H complained that Lloyds Bank removed his access to his account which meant he didnt 
have money for basic necessities. He couldnt understand why Lloyds Bank had deemed 
him a risk without any explanation. He felt that Lloyds Bank were discriminating against him, 
and this had a severe impact on his mental health which left him crying for days. He says he 
was made to feel worthless. He also explained that he couldnt visit a branch as it closed at 
3.30pm and didnt have enough time to stop during his lunch break.
He explained that hed raised a subject access request (SAR) and had asked Lloyds Bank to 
send him the call recording via email, but his request wasnt adhered to. He also wasnt able 
to access the information that was emailed to him as the code he was provided wasnt 
accepted. And he didnt receive a new code despite multiple attempts.
Mr H also said that he received a text message shortly after he withdrew all his funds, letting 
him know that hed be entering an unarranged overdraft facility if he didnt pay money into 
his account. He explained he was very confused and shocked as he thought he no longer 
held an account. He was also worried about how this might affect his credit score. Mr H 
spoke to Lloyds Bank and he says he was told direct debits would still be allowed even 
though the account was blocked. Mr H was unhappy he was given conflicting information as 
the letter he received told him that hed need to make other arrangements for credits and 
direct debits. He asked Lloyds Bank to stop sending him letters and emails as he wasnt their 
customer anymore. He found this to be harassing and was impacting his mental health. 
Lloyds Bank issued their final response letter explaining that they had given Mr H two 
months notice to make alternative banking arrangements. And although theyd limited his 
access to the account, it still remained open during the notice period. They said that the 
terms and conditions allowed them to take such action without providing any notice or 
explanation. They said they werent required to provide the reasons behind their decision 
and wont be doing so. 
They accepted that they didnt carry out Mr Hs instructions to send the call recordings from 
his SAR request via email and acknowledged the difficulties he had in accessing the 
information due to issues with the code. They arranged for the information to be re-sent to 
Mr H via email.
They also agreed they made an error when the direct debit left his account after he was 
informed that there would be no facilities available to him. They explained it wasnt their 
intention to upset Mr H with any marketing or correspondence that was sent to him. They 
said they were legally obliged to provide him with information regarding his account, but 
theyd stopped marketing information being sent to him. They explained their marketing is 
generated eight weeks in advance so Mr H may still receive some information in the 
meantime. 
They apologised to Mr H and to make up for the distress and inconvenience caused they 
arranged to pay £100 compensation. Mr H referred his complaint to our service as he didnt 
feel the £100 was enough to justify the stress and inconvenience he was caused. He 
explained that he was really anxious, and his mental health was severely impacted. He also 
wanted an explanation for why he was a risk to Lloyds Bank and wanted his account to be 
reopened.
Our investigator said that he was satisfied Lloyds Bank had given Mr H two months notice to 
close his account which was in line with the terms and conditions. He explained Lloyds Bank 
arent obliged to give Mr H a reason for the closure of the account. 
The investigator also felt Lloyds Bank couldnt be held liable for Mr Hs work schedule which 
meant he couldnt visit a branch and had to borrow money from family. He felt Mr H wasnt 
treated unfairly as he was able to transfer funds to an alternative account within four days of 
the closure notice being sent. He said that Lloyds Banks system notes indicated that 
marketing communication had stopped, and he was satisfied £100 compensation was fair for 
the errors involving the SAR and direct debit payment. Mr H disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2023, and I made the following findings:
Its important to explain that Lloyds Bank have a wide range of legal and regulatory 
obligations they must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only apply to the account opening stage. To comply with their 
obligations, Lloyds Bank may need to review an account and sometimes this may 
lead to the account being blocked and/or closed. This means Lloyds Bank are 
allowed to block and review an account at any time as they did in Mr Hs case. 
Mr H feels that Lloyds Bank have discriminated against him when they decided to 
close his account. He hasnt however expanded on how or why he feels 
discriminated against. Its helpful to explain that its not my role to make a finding on 
whether discrimination has taken place as a matter of law and only a court has the power to decide this. But Ive taken into account Lloyds Banks obligations when 
deciding whether or not I think Mr H has been treated fairly.
Banks are generally entitled to close an account providing its in line with the terms 
and conditions. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Hs account and this 
allows Lloyds Bank to, in certain circumstances, close the account without telling him 
in advance or by providing two months notice for any other reason. 
Lloyds Bank have explained the risk assessment they carried out on Mr Hs account 
highlighted concerns which resulted in them deciding to close his account with two 
months notice, as he no longer met their risk appetite. This is a decision Lloyds Bank 
are entitled to make in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Lloyds Bank arent required to explain to Mr H why they decided to block his account 
and the reasons why they dont want him as a customer anymore. But they are 
expected to provide this information to our service to help us fairly assess and decide 
the complaint.
Despite our request, Lloyds Bank have failed to provide us with information to explain 
what prompted their risk assessment and the reasons why Mr H no longer meets 
their risk appetite. Its important for our service to see evidence of this, to ensure 
Lloyds Bank have exercised their commercial discretion to end their relationship with 
Mr H legitimately and free from any prejudice or discrimination. But unfortunately, 
Lloyds Bank have maintained they wont disclose this information to us.
This service has the power to request evidence of this nature under the dispute 
resolution rules (DISP), and Im not persuaded the explanation given by Lloyds Bank 
exclude them from complying with these rules.
Lloyds Bank also placed a block on Mr Hs account during the notice period which 
prevented him from accessing the account as he usually would. By doing so, I think 
Lloyds Bank have effectively negated the notice period Mr H was provided.
I havent seen any evidence to suggests there were any other reasons which meant 
Lloyds Bank were able to close Mr Hs account immediately without giving him the 
advance notice hes entitled to, as per the terms and conditions of the account. 
Due to the lack of information and supporting evidence Lloyds Bank have given our 
service in this particular case, I cant be satisfied that theyve treated Mr H fairly when 
they decided to block and close his account. 
Ive thought about how Mr H has been impacted by Lloyds Bank deciding to block 
and close his account. Mr H has explained he didnt have funds for basic necessities 
and had to borrow from his family and friends. He does appear to have other bank 
accounts, but has told us that all his money was in his Lloyds Bank account. Hes 
explained he wasnt able to visit a branch to access his funds straightaway due to his 
work commitments. Hes also told us about his mental health being impacted 
severely. 
Although Mr H got access to his funds within four days of his account being blocked 
 he was only able to do so by calling Lloyds Bank. I cant see that Lloyds Bank 
made it clear in their letter of 13 June 2022 that Mr H had the option to potentially 
move funds to an existing payee by calling them instead of visiting a branch. Lloyds Bank have apologised for the wording on their letter. But I think if Lloyds Bank 
were clearer in their letter about Mr Hs option of calling them to access his funds, 
then the distress and upset he was caused couldve been avoided as he wouldve 
had the option to mitigate some of the impact on him. 
I know Mr Hs mental health has been impacted by Lloyds Bank not giving him an 
explanation for why they deemed him to be a risk. But as I explained, Lloyds Bank 
arent under any obligation to explain to Mr H as to why he didnt meet their risk 
appetite  so I cant say theyve treated him unfairly by not providing him with this 
explanation.
Turning to the other customer service points Mr H has raised, Lloyds Bank have 
already accepted the issues Mr H experienced with the SAR. I understand theyve 
rectified this by resending the call recordings via email, but the issues caused Mr H 
unnecessary frustration and annoyance.
Lloyds Bank have also agreed they made an error when a direct debit left Mr Hs 
account on 30 June 2022 for £20 when the letter of 13 June 2022 told him no 
facilities would be made available and hed need to make alternative arrangements 
for direct debits. 
Since Lloyds Bank told Mr H that no facilities would be available to him, its 
understandable that he was shocked and worried when he received a text message 
letting him know that hed be entering an unarranged overdraft facility. Mr H was 
given further conflicting information when he spoke to Lloyds Bank which wouldve 
added to his confusion and frustration. 
Mr H made it clear to Lloyds Bank that he suffered from mental health issues and 
asked them not to send him any correspondence. But Mr H continued to receive 
correspondence from Lloyds Bank until December 2022. 
I appreciate Lloyds Bank still had to send Mr H information about his account until it 
was closed. But there seems to be an unexplained delay with Lloyds Bank closing Mr 
Hs account. It shouldve been closed within two months of their letter of 13 June 
2022 on 13 August 2022. However, I can see the account wasnt closed until 19 
October 2022. This caused Mr H to receive unnecessary additional correspondence, 
such as statements and statements of fees in October and December 2022. 
Mr H has explained that this caused his mental health to worsen as the 
correspondence was a reminder of what had happened. Lloyds Bank have 
apologised for the distress this caused to Mr H.
I understand Mr H is concerned about his credit file being negatively impacted as his 
current account was showing as open with blocks, when it shouldve been closed in 
August 2022, and that it was overdrawn due to the unpaid direct debit. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show that Lloyds Bank have incorrectly recorded any 
adverse information on his credit file. But Lloyds Bank have an obligation to ensure 
information on Mr Hs credit file is accurate. Given that they shouldve closed his 
account on 13 August 2022, but it wasnt until October 2022, I think Lloyds Bank 
should amend this information on Mr Hs credit file. 
Also, Lloyds Bank gave Mr H inconsistent information about his direct debit which 
resulted in Mr H not leaving sufficient balance in his account to pay the direct debit on 30 June 2022. So, Lloyds Bank should remove any adverse information recorded 
in June 2022, if any, as a result of this unpaid direct debit.
In summary, as explained, I cant be satisfied Lloyds Bank treated Mr H fairly when 
they blocked and closed his account. I have no doubt Mr H was distressed and upset 
by the restrictions placed on his account. Ive considered the impact this caused on 
Mr H when deciding the overall amount of compensation Lloyds Bank should pay to 
put things right. 
I think there were a number of customer service issues which have had an impact on 
Mr H. Individually, these werent significant. But when Mr H had to face multiple 
problems, I think the distress, frustration, annoyance and inconvenience he 
experienced was compounded  particularly given his mental health issues.
The level of customer service fell far below what Mr H could rightly expect to receive 
from Lloyds Bank. Although Lloyds Bank have apologised and paid Mr H £100 
compensation, I dont think this goes far enough to fairly recognise the impact on Mr 
H. 
Taking everything into account, I think Lloyds Bank should pay Mr H a further £250 
compensation to fairly recognise the distress and inconvenience he was caused  
taking the total amount of compensation to £350.
I also think Lloyds Bank should pay Mr H 8% simple interest per annum on the daily 
balance of his account from 13 June 2022 to 16 June 2022. This is to make up for 
the loss of use of his funds during the time he didnt have access to his account.  
 To put things right, Lloyds Bank should:
Pay Mr H a further £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him;
Remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file relating to the 
returned direct debit in June 2022;
Update Mr Hs credit file to reflect the account closed date to 13 
August 2022;
Pay Mr H 8% simple interest* per annum on his daily account balance 
from 13 June 2022 to 16 June 2022.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds Bank to deduct tax from this interest. 
Lloyds Bank must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off, if 
he asks for one.
Responses to my provisional decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision with any further submissions.
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision. He felt that Lloyds Bank should be able to 
explain why he cant get an account with them. He explained he feels stressed and confused 
about why hes considered a risk. Hes shared with us information about his mental health 
being impacted due to him not knowing the reasons why Lloyds Bank thought he was a risk. 
He told us that he wants us to wait for Lloyds Bank to give our service information about why 
he was a risk and if they dont, he believes it requires further investigation. He also asked 
that his account be reopened as a resolution to the complaint.Lloyds Bank responded to my provisional decision confirming their acceptance and informed 
us that theyve made the amendments I recommended to Mr Hs credit file.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr H is struggling with his mental health due to thinking about why hes a 
risk to Lloyds Bank. I dont underestimate the strength of Mr Hs feelings, but as explained in 
my provisional decision, Lloyds Bank arent under any obligation to share more information 
with him about why he didnt meet their risk appetite, as much as hed like to know. 
Although Mr H has asked us to wait for Lloyds Bank to explain why they considered him to 
be a risk, I dont consider this to be necessary. This is because Lloyds Bank havent 
provided this information despite us asking for it already, and we arent able to compel them 
to do so.
I reached the findings set out in my provisional decision, based on the available information. 
This took into account the lack of information and supporting evidence from Lloyds Bank 
regarding the blocks placed on Mr Hs account, as well as the account closure. I wasnt 
satisfied Lloyds Bank had treated Mr H fairly when they decided to block and close his 
account. I considered the impact this, and the customer service issues had on Mr H to 
decide a fair amount of compensation.
Ive also carefully thought about the comments Mr H has made in response to my provisional 
decision, in particular about the impact to his mental health. I sympathise with Mr Hs 
situation, but I have to bear in mind that the pro-longed impact on his mental health seems to 
be due to Lloyds Bank not disclosing to him the reasons why they consider him to be a risk. 
Since I found that Lloyds Bank arent obliged to share this information with Mr H, it follows, I 
cant fairly ask them to compensate him for the impact this has continued to have on him. I 
know Mr H will be disappointed, but all things considered, I remain of the view that £350 
compensation is fair and reasonable under the circumstances to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. 
I appreciate Mr H would like his account to be reopened, but as explained in my provisional 
decision, Lloyds Bank are entitled to close his account under the terms and conditions. And 
as mentioned above, Ive taken into account the impact the account block and closure had 
on Mr H to decide a fair amount of compensation which Im satisfied is a fair way to resolve 
this complaint.
In summary, to put things right, Lloyds Bank should:
Pay Mr H a further £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him;
Remove any adverse information from Mr Hs credit file relating to the returned direct 
debit in June 2022;
Update Mr Hs credit file to reflect the account closed date to 13 August 2022;
Pay Mr H 8% simple interest* per annum on his daily account balance from 13 June 
2022 to 16 June 2022.*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds Bank to deduct tax from this interest. Lloyds Bank 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, Lloyds Bank Plc should put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman