DRN-4195212
The complaint
Mrs N complains about how MBNA Limited handled a claim she made to it.
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties, so I will cover these briefly and focus on 
giving reasons for my decision.
Mrs N bought various life coaching courses using her MBNA credit card. She paid several 
thousand pounds in total for three separate courses. However, Mrs N was not happy with the 
purchases. In summary, she says:
The course provider (the supplier) acted unethically in the way it sold the courses to 
her at a time in her life where she was in a crisis and desperate.
The first course was not working for her but the supplier did not provide empathy and 
just offered and sold her another course. 
She eventually purchased a third course to become a certified life coach  but the 
course had no clear direction or advice, the person who ran the course was leaving 
unexpectedly and it wasnt a recognised course. She says she also had issues 
accessing live calls at times. So she stopped her regular payments and later 
requested a refund but the supplier says the course was non-refundable and in order 
to regain access she needed to pay her outstanding balance. 
MBNA did not uphold her claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 
75) so Mrs N complained. The complaint then came to this service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint so Mrs N has asked for the matter to 
considered for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the evidence submitted by the parties but I will only be commenting on the 
matters I think most relevant here. This is not intended as a discourtesy but reflects the 
nature of my role resolving disputes informally.
It is important to note that MBNA is not the supplier of the training courses. So my role here 
is to look at what it could reasonably have done for Mrs N in its role as a provider of financial 
services. In this regard I consider it relevant to look at Section 75 and the chargeback 
scheme as options open to MBNA to explore getting back Mrs Ns money.
I am very sorry to hear about Mrs Ns personal circumstances and how she feels about the 
way the supplier treated her. I think it worth stating early that I am not upholding this 
complaint. However, it is important to note that my decision is only about whether MBNA 
acted fairly in handling the claim based on the information it reasonably had available to it 
and in respect of the particular limitations of Section 75 or the chargeback scheme. It isnt 
about the suppliers wider customer service or ethics. Although my decision is likely to 
disappoint Mrs N she doesnt have to accept it and is free to pursue the supplier directly via 
other means if she wishes (and with any legal advice she considers appropriate).
Section 75
In certain circumstances Section 75 allows Mrs N to have a like claim against MBNA for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier of goods or services she paid for using 
her MBNA credit card.
Certain criteria must be met for Section 75 to apply to a transaction. I consider the relevant 
criteria is in place here. So I have moved on to consider if MBNAs response to the claim in 
respect of any alleged breach of contract or misrepresentation was fair and reasonable.
MBNA responded to say it was unable to uphold the claim because the supplier had 
explained:
The courses she bought are non-refundable; and
the coaching course is still available to restart if Mrs N continues her payments.
MBNA explained it was unable to determine that the supplier had breached its contract here. 
From what I can see I dont think it acted unfairly in concluding this.
There is limited information about the terms of the service which Mrs N signed up for here  
which makes it difficult for me to establish a breach of contract. However, in deciding what is 
fair and reasonable I have considered any persuasive evidence that certain express terms 
have been broken or if (under the Consumer Rights Act 2015) there appears to be a breach 
of the implied term to provide a service with reasonable care and skill. It is worth noting that 
care and skill is not necessarily about the results achieved from a particular service but the 
manner in which the service was carried out. 
As a starting point, although I dont have a copy of the contract here it appears the benefits 
of a product of this kind would likely be expected to vary from person to person, and be 
somewhat subjective. It would be unusual to see a product of this kind offer a refund 
because a student decides it isnt for them or that it didnt work for them. Furthermore, Mrs N 
has not provided any information to show that there were any guarantees in place from the 
supplier or promises of refunds if certain results were not achieved. So prima facie I am not 
persuaded that Mrs N was likely entitled to a refund because she changed her mind or 
because the courses were not beneficial for her.
If I were persuaded the course wasnt being offered or there were significant issues with its 
delivery then I might be able to establish a breach has occurred. However, from the 
suppliers response it appears they were willing to continue to provide the updated course to 
Mrs N if she continued to make her payments. It was only put on hold at Mrs Ns request due 
to what appear to be her financial difficulties at the time. The supplier also explained that 
even though a coach left they had other replacement coaches running the sessions, and that 
recorded videos of live sessions were available to make up for any connection difficulties. So 
I am not persuaded a breach of an express term of the contract has likely occurred here in 
respect of the provision of the service, or that there has been a breach of the requirement to 
perform a service with reasonable care and skill. I know Mrs N has said that she wasnt told the last course would not be a recognised 
course. But I dont think there is enough to say this is a misrepresentation here. It isnt clear 
from paperwork or testimony what was discussed about the credentials of the course and a 
misrepresentation needs to be a false statement of fact which induces Mrs N to enter the 
contract. If the supplier has omitted to explain exactly how the course is recognised outside 
of the program I dont think this is enough to constitute a misrepresentation here. 
I have considered what Mrs N has said in her submissions and from what I can see the main 
issue is that she strongly feels the supplier acted unethically because it sold her courses at a 
low point in her life and that it didnt show empathy for her specific circumstances. Mrs N 
explains that it took her some time to realise these courses were not for her. Once again I 
am very sorry to hear about the circumstances leading up to Mrs N signing on to various 
courses. However, when considering if MBNA has acted fairly in regard to her Section 75 
claim I am looking at whether there is persuasive evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation rather than a wider assessment of the suppliers ethics. Here, because I 
dont think there is persuasive evidence of a breach or misrepresentation I am unable to 
fairly say MBNA has acted unreasonably in declining the claim here.
Chargeback
For completeness I have considered if MBNA was able to reasonably help Mrs N using 
chargeback. This is run by the card schemes and isnt guaranteed to recover funds  but can 
be good practice to use if there is a reasonable prospect of success.
From what I know MBNA didnt raise a chargeback here, but in the circumstances I dont 
consider that was unreasonable. I say this because it appears as if Mrs N was out of time to 
raise a chargeback because of when she appears to have got in touch with MBNA after first 
raising her dispute with the merchant (which is a requirement of the chargeback scheme). It 
appears once MBNA would have had sufficient information to consider raising a chargeback 
in respect of the service not being as expected/provided it was too late to raise one (because 
the service was put on hold more than 120 days before). 
However, even if this were not the case, based on the information I have seen it is difficult to 
say a chargeback had a reasonable prospect of success in any event. The supplier appears 
to have robustly defended itself and I think it is likely to have done so had a chargeback 
been raised. A chargeback can only be raised for certain relevant reasons such as a service 
not being as described/provided. However, for similar reasons to those given in respect of 
the Section 75 claim it is difficult to say that a chargeback would likely have succeeded here 
under the limited reason codes available under the scheme.
Overall, I dont consider it reasonable to make MBNA do anything more here. Once again I 
am sorry to hear about Mrs Ns circumstances and I remind MBNA that it should be positive 
and sympathetic in respect of any repayments Mrs N is required to make in relation to the 
amounts spent on her card. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman