DRN-4431457
The complaint
Mr A complains that Hitachi Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance (Hitachi) 
didnt fairly or reasonably deal with his claim under sections 75 and 140 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare product he purchased.
What happened
In or around July 2015, Mr A was on holiday having taken out a trial membership with a 
timeshare supplier who Ill refer to as P. During that holiday, he was approached by a 
representative of P and subsequently attended a sales presentation on 23 July 2015. 
During that presentation, Mr A agreed to upgrade his trial membership to purchase full 
membership of a timeshare product with P. The cost of the product purchased was £5,500 
after trade in of the existing trial membership. The total purchase price was funded with a 
fixed sum loan from Hitachi over 36 months in Mr As sole name.
On 20 July 2021, using a claims management company (the CMC), Mr A submitted a claim 
to Hitachi under sections 75 and 140 of the CCA. 
The CMC said that P had miss sold the product by making misrepresentations which Mr A 
had relied upon when entering into the purchase agreement and contract. In particular, the 
CMC alleged P had told Mr A that purchase of the full membership would:
resolve any ongoing issues regarding Mr As preferred holidays;
would give a far greater choice of holidays; and
would enable Mr A to book his preferred holiday at any time he wanted.
The CMC also alleged that an unfair relationship existed under section 140A of the CCA 
(S140A) due to the misrepresentations. They also thought unfairness existed due to:
the terms of the agreement being so egregious as to be unfair themselves since an 
aspect of the relationship had been hidden from view  that being a payment of 
commissions:
Mr A being aggressively targeted and subjected to a high pressure sales 
presentation resulting in Mr A feeling pressured and under duress;
being told the product was only available at a special price if purchased that day;
the contract having no end date and appearing to be in perpetuity; and
no time being given to read or consider the information provided.
The CMC also believed thered been various regulatory breaches which added to the 
unfairness of the relationship between the various parties. In particular:
thered been breaches of the Timeshare, Holiday Products, Resale and Exchange 
Contracts Regulations 2010 (The TRs);
P (and in turn Hitachi) had failed to ascertain whether Mr A could afford the finance 
provided; and
P didnt review other financial products with Mr A or advise that he could consider 
other creditors.
In response, Hitachi thought Mr As claim for misrepresentation under sections 75 of the 
CCA (S75) had been made too late under the provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 (the 
LA). They also didnt agree that a fiduciary relationship existed such that there was a 
requirement to disclose any commission payment. Hitachi said P had presented Mr A with 
various options to finance the purchase and he was under no obligation to take out credit to 
fund it. Hitachi went on to explain the affordability assessment theyd undertaken and didnt 
agree the loan wasnt affordable.
Neither the CMC nor Mr A agreed with Hitachis findings. So, the CMC passed Mr As 
complaint to a professional representative (the PR) who referred the complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered all the information and evidence available. 
Having done so, they didnt think there was sufficient evidence to support the allegations and 
didnt think Mr As complaint should be upheld.
The PR didnt agree with our investigators findings and asked that Mr As complaint be 
passed to an ombudsman for a final decision, in support of which they would provide 
detailed submissions to support Mr As complaint. As a consequence, Mr As complaint was 
passed to me to consider further. Having done so, while I was inclined to reach the same 
outcome as our investigator, I considered a number of aspects which I dont feel were 
previously fully addressed. So, I issued a provisional decision on 3 October 2023 asking 
each party to provide any new comments or evidence before I reach a final decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Relevant Considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, DISP1 3.6.4R of the FCA2 Handbook 
means Im required to take into account; relevant law and regulations, relevant 
regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider was good industry practice at the relevant time.
S75 provides consumers with protection for goods or services bought using credit. Mr 
A paid for the timeshare membership, having financed it with a restricted use 
regulated loan from Hitachi. So, he is afforded the protection offered to borrowers like 
him under those provisions  subject to any restrictions and limitations. Ive taken this 
section into account when deciding whats fair in the circumstances of this case.
S140A looks at the fairness of the relationship between Mr A and Hitachi arising out 
of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreements). And because 
the product purchased was funded under the credit agreement, its deemed to be a 
related agreement. Only a court has the power to make a determination under 
S140A. But as its relevant law, Ive considered it when deciding what I believe is fair 
and reasonable. 
Its important to distinguish between the complaint being considered here and the 
legal claim. The complaint referred to this service specifically relates to whether I 
believe Hitachis treatment of Mr As claim was fair and reasonable given all the 
evidence and information available to me. This service isnt afforded powers to 
determine any legal claim itself. That is the role of the courts.
This services role as an Alternative Dispute Resolution Service (ADR) is to provide 
mediation in the event of a dispute. While the decision of an ombudsman can be 
legally binding, if accepted by a consumer, we dont provide a legal service. And as 
Ive said above, this service isnt able to make legal findings  that is the role of the 
1 Dispute Resolution: The Complaints sourcebook (DISP)
2 Financial Conduct Authoritycourts. Where a consumer doesnt accept the findings of an ombudsman, it doesnt 
prejudice their right to pursue their claim in other ways.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, my 
decision is made on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is more likely than not to have happened given the evidence 
thats available from the time and the wider circumstances. In doing so, my role isnt 
necessarily to address, in my decision, every single point thats been made. And for 
that reason, Im only going to refer to what I believe are the most salient points 
having considered everything thats been said and provided.
The claim for misrepresentation under S75
In their response, Hitachi suggest that Mr As claim was made too late under the 
provisions of the LA. 
A section 75 claim is an action [that is, court action] to recover any sum by virtue of 
any enactment under section 9 of the LA. And the limitation period under that 
provision is six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued. So here, 
Mr A had to make a claim within six years of when he entered into the purchase 
contract and credit agreement. Thats because this is when the CMC say Mr A lost 
out having relied upon the alleged false statements of fact at that time. The evidence 
suggests this took place on 23 July 2015.
Details of the alleged misrepresentations were submitted by the CMC to Hitachi by 
email on 20 July 2021, which was within six years of the purchase and when Mr A 
first say he lost out. So, I believe a court is likely to find that his claim falls within the 
time limit permitted in the LA. 
For me to conclude there was a misrepresentation by P in the way that has been 
alleged, generally speaking, I would need to be satisfied, based on the available 
evidence, that P made false statements of fact when selling the timeshare product. In 
other words, that they told Mr A something that wasnt true in relation to one or more 
of the points raised. I would also need to be satisfied that the misrepresentations 
were material in inducing Mr A to enter the contract. This means I would need to be 
persuaded that Mr A reasonably relied on those false statements when deciding to 
buy the timeshare product.
From the limited information provided, I cant be certain about what Mr A was 
specifically told (or not told) about the benefits of the product he purchased. It was, 
however, indicated that he was told these things. So, Ive thought about that 
alongside the limited evidence available. The only document I have seen from the 
time of the sale is a single page headed Membership Application & Contract of 
Sale. This specifies that Mr A will have exclusive rights to occupy a Holiday Club 
apartment of the type and for the period(s) identified below:). It goes on to detail a 
particular apartment for week 26. The document makes no reference to availability or 
choice options.
Although not determinative of the matter, I havent seen any other documentation 
which supports Mr As assertions, like marketing material or other detailed 
documentation from the time of the sale that echoes what he says he was told. In 
particular that any guarantees were provided about holiday availability and choice. 
On balance, and in the absence of supporting evidence from the time of the sale, I 
therefore cant reasonably say, with any certainty, that P did in fact make the alleged 
misrepresentations. 
The unfair relationship claim under S140AThe court may make an order under S140B in connection with a credit agreement if it 
determines that the relationship between the creditor (Hitachi) and the debtor (Mr A) 
is unfair to the debtor because of one or more of the following (from S140A):
a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of the rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
Fiduciary responsibilities and disclosure of commission paid
Part of Mr As S140A claim is primarily based upon the status of P (as the introducer 
of the loan) and their resultant responsibilities towards him. In particular, its argued 
that the payment of commission by Hitachi to P was kept from him. But I dont think 
the fact that Hitachi might have paid P commission was incompatible with its role in 
the transaction. 
P wasnt acting as an agent of Mr A, but as the supplier of contractual rights he 
obtained under the timeshare product agreement. And, in relation to the loan, based 
upon what Ive seen so far, it doesnt appear it was Ps role to make an impartial or 
disinterested recommendation, or to give Mr A advice or information on that basis. As 
far as Im aware, Mr A was always at liberty to choose how he wanted to fund the 
transaction. 
Whats more, I havent found anything to suggest Hitachi were under any regulatory 
duty to disclose the amount of any commission paid in these circumstances. Nor is 
there any suggestion or evidence that Mr A requested those details from Hitachi. As I 
understand it, the typical amounts of commission paid by Hitachi to suppliers (like P 
in this case) was unlikely to be much more than 10%. And on that basis, Im not 
persuaded its likely that a court would find that the non-disclosure and payment of 
commission created and unfair debtor-creditor relationship under S140A, given the 
circumstances of this complaint.
The sales process
Its alleged that P aggressively targeted Mr A and, as a result, he felt pressured into 
entering the agreement. I acknowledge what the CMC say have said about the length 
of sales presentations Mr A attended. So, I can understand why its argued that the 
prolonged nature of these presentations might have felt like a pressured sale  
especially if, as he approached the closing stages, he was going to have to make a 
decision on the day in order to avoid missing out on an offer that may not have been 
available at a later date.
Against the straightforward measure of pressure as its commonly understood, I find 
it hard to argue that Mr A agreed to the purchase in 2015 when he simply didnt want 
to. I havent seen any evidence to demonstrate that he went on to say something to 
P, after the purchase, to suggest hed agreed to it when he didnt want to. And I 
havent been provided with a credible explanation for why he didnt subsequently 
seek to cancel the purchase within the normal 14-day cooling off period usually 
permitted here. 
If Mr A only agreed to the purchase because he felt he was pressured, I find this 
aspect difficult to reconcile with the allegation in question. I havent seen anything 
substantive to suggest Mr A was obviously harassed or coerced into the purchase.  
And because of that, Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to demonstrate he 
made the decision to proceed because his ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the Consumer 
Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations (CPUT).
Time to consider the agreement(s)
As Ive already said, Ive seen limited documentation from the time of the sale. 
However, Im aware they normally include a period of 14 days from the date of 
agreeing to the purchase within which to cancel the agreement without giving any 
reason  as required under the TRs. But I have seen a copy of the loan agreement 
signed by Mr A which includes a section headed (in bold printed typeface) Your 
Right To Withdraw From The Agreement. It clearly explains that Mr A has 14 days in 
which to cancel the loan agreement without giving any reason.
So, even if I were to find that Mr A wasnt given adequate opportunity to read and 
consider the purchase or loan documentation at the time of the sale - and I make no 
such finding - I would expect him to have had sufficient time in which to consider his 
decision within the subsequent 14 days. And, where appropriate, raise any questions 
or concerns before the loan was drawn and the purchase completed. Theres no 
suggestion or evidence that Mr A did raise any questions or concerns prior to the 
sale being completed. Or that he had any intention of cancelling the agreement.
Regulatory breaches
One of the main aims of the various regulations that applied here was to enable 
consumers to understand the financial implications of their purchase so that they are 
put in a position to make an informed decision. If Ps disclosure and/or the terms of 
the purchase didnt recognise and reflect that aim, and Mr A ultimately lost out or 
almost certainly stand to lose out from having entered into a contract, the financial 
implications of which he didnt fully understand at the time of contracting, that may 
amount to unfairness under S140A.
However, given the limited documentation provided, I havent seen any evidence to 
support the breaches alleged here. And as the Supreme Court decision in Plevin3 
makes clear, it doesnt automatically follow that regulatory breaches create 
unfairness for the purpose of S140A. Such breaches and their consequences (if 
there are any) must be looked at in the round, rather than in a narrow or technical 
way. In other words, if I were to find thered been regulatory breaches  and I make 
no such finding - they are only likely to lead to unfairness where theres evidence Mr 
A suffered loss as a consequence. And as I havent seen any evidence that was the 
case, I think it unlikely a court would find that any of the alleged regulatory breaches 
resulted in unfairness under S140A.
Were the required lending checks undertaken?
There are certain aspects of Mr As claim that could be considered outside of S75 
and S140A. In particular, in relation to whether Hitachi undertook a proper credit 
assessment. The CMC and the PR allege P didnt undertake a proper affordability 
check.
Its relevant that Mr A hasnt provided any evidence to show that the loan was 
unaffordable or unsuitable for him. And Ive not seen anything that supports any 
suggestion of financial difficulty from that time. 
In their response to Mr A, Hitachi explained the affordability assessment theyd 
completed which they believe showed the loan was sustainably affordable for Mr A.  
If I were to find that Hitachi hadnt completed all the required checks and tests  and I 
make no such finding  I would need to be satisfied that had such checks been 
3 Plevin vs Paragon Personal Finance Ltd [2014] (Plevin)completed, they wouldve revealed that the loan repayments werent sustainably 
affordable for Mr A in order to uphold his complaint here. 
With no specific information about Mr As actual position at the time and no 
supporting evidence that he struggled to maintain repayments, I cant reasonably 
conclude the loan was unaffordable for him or that he suffered any loss as a 
consequence.
Summary
As Ive explained above, from the evidence available, I dont agree that Mr As claim 
for misrepresentation was made too late. However, I havent found anything to 
support the allegations made here. And because of that, I dont think Hitachis 
response to Mr As claim was ultimately unfair or unreasonable. 
Im conscious the PR indicated they would provide further submissions in support of 
Mr As complaint. However, I cant see that anything further has been received. So, 
as things stand, I dont currently intend to ask Hitachi to do anything more here. But I 
will consider any further submissions specific to Mr As circumstances and complaint 
before I issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party to this complaint has responded to my provisional findings, despite this 
services attempts to follow matters up with them. In the circumstances, and in the absence 
of anything new to consider here, Ive no reason to vary from my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman