DRN-3353787
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) didnt do enough to prevent him from falling 
victim to a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2019 Mr T began investing with a firm Ill 
refer to as B. He made a series of payments through various channels to fund his 
investment. 
Date Payment Type Amount Beneficiary
19 July 2019 Debit Card Payment £1,050 C1
6 August 2019 International 
Transfer£2,000 C
27 August 2019 International 
Transfer£2,000 C
18 September 2019 International 
Transfer£2,000 C
15 November 2019 Faster Payment £2,000 C
15 November 2019 Faster Payment £8,000 C
20 November 2019 Faster Payment £20,000 C
21 November 2019 Faster Payment £16,000 C
Prior to any of these payments, I also understand that Mr T had attempted to make a 
payment on his BoS credit card. But this had been declined on the basis of BoS terms not 
allowing the purchase of cryptocurrency on a credit card. 
Mr Ts £8,000 payment on 15 November 2019 flagged on BoS systems as a risk. There was 
a conversation between Mr T and BoS around that time. Mr T later reported to BoS that hed 
been the victim of a scam when he was unable to make withdrawals from his investment 
with B. 
BoS tried without success to recover Mr Ts money from the beneficiary accounts (for the 
transfers). They also considered a chargeback in relation to the debit card payment but 
ultimately didnt progress this. However, they did think they could have done more on their 
call on 15 November in relation to providing Mr T with scam warnings. So they decided to 
refund £23,000 (that being half the payments made on 15 November 2019 and afterwards) 
to Mr T.
The complaint was referred to our service and one of our Senior Investigators didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. In summary, he thought the overall outcome was fair and 
didnt think BoS ought to do more. Mr T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
In February 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T thinks that BoS ought to have done more to warn him about scams when his credit card 
payment to purchase cryptocurrency was blocked. Ive considered this but I dont agree. The 
payment itself was stopped and so there was no risk in that. And I think having a payment 
stopped in itself would have been enough to highlight that there was risk attached to that 
type of purchase as it was something BoS had decided they didnt want to allow on their 
credit cards at the time. 
BoS had a brief conversation with Mr T in relation to the £1,050 debit card payment. They 
had sent him a text (SMS) message asking him to confirm it was a genuine payment. Mr T 
had incorrectly responded to say it wasnt him and wanted to reverse his error. I think the 
SMS was a proportionate response to the risk associated with that payment and I dont think, 
even when they spoke to Mr T, that BoS ought to have done more than they did. The focus 
of that conversation was understandably on resolving Mr T having sent an incorrect 
response to the SMS. 
I also agree with our Investigator that none of the £2,000 payments ought to have prompted 
any intervention by BoS. Banks have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in 
their customers best interests. But there is obviously a balance to be struck between 
stopping and checking payments and allowing their customers free access to their funds. 
Whilst these payments were for more than Mr T commonly spent, and some were 
international (something he didnt commonly instruct)  I dont think they were sufficiently 
unusual or out of character for him and his account where Id have expected BoS to have 
done more.
BoS did intervene in the £8,000 payment that Mr T made on 15 November 2019. I think they 
were right to do so, this was for far more money and it came after a £2,000 payment made 
earlier the same day. BoS blocked the £8,000 payment and Mr T had to call BoS to have the 
payment released. 
BoS accepted that they could have done more to warn Mr T about the possibility of a scam 
during that phone call. They later assessed this under the Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) and it prompted them to refund £23,000 (or 50% of the payments made on 15 
November 2019 and after). 
I dont think the considerations of the CRM apply to this complaint. Debit card and 
international payments arent covered by the CRM. And for the faster payments it requires 
that the payment is being sent directly to the scammer, which it wasnt. 
When Mr T spoke to our Investigator, he confirmed that his money first went to C who 
converted it into cryptocurrency before it was then moved on to B to fund his trading 
account. This matches what I know about the way C operate, they take payments for the 
purchase of cryptocurrency and will then send that on to a wallet address as instructed. So 
in making these transfers, Mr T was in effect paying himself, Im not persuaded he wasnt in 
control of the funds deposited with C. The CRM only applies to payments made directly to 
the scammer. Because of this my consideration is limited to whether BoS couldve done 
more to prevent Mr Ts loss. And not whether a refund was correctly given under the CRM 
code. 
Ive considered whether the phone call between BoS and Mr T was sufficient and if it wasnt, 
whether this would have made a difference to him instructing any further payments. BoS themselves accept that they could have done more to warn Mr T about potential scams 
involving cryptocurrency during that phone call and I agree. 
By November 2019 scams involving cryptocurrency were becoming far more prevalent. And 
even though Mr T likely would have explained he was buying cryptocurrency to fund an 
investment with B, Id still have expected BoS to have warned him about the potential for 
scams. I also think its reasonable to have expected them to have suggested Mr T checks for 
warnings on the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website in relation to B. 
But even if BoS had provided suitable warnings and done a better job during their call with 
Mr T, Im not persuaded this would have stopped him instructing the payments in any case. 
Mr Ts own testimony is that prior to starting this investment he had already checked the 
FCA website and hadnt found any warnings about B. So I dont think BoS warning him of 
that possibility would have had much impact. His testimony is also that he was happy with 
how his account was progressing and that he wanted to make a further £10,000 investment. 
Mr T also had access to an online platform where he could see his trades, balance and 
progress. Mr T said that hed done all the checks that a layperson would have been able to 
do.
There is also a call Ive listened to that took place in July 2019 when Mr T had attempted to 
make a card payment to C1 and it hadnt gone through. During this call Mr T confirmed that 
he had used C1 before and that he trusted them. He was also informed that when making 
any investment of cryptocurrency it can be very hard for the bank to recover any funds. 
Despite this warning from BoS Mr T went ahead and made further payments. 
Even if the conversation had got to the point where Mr T had disclosed that the payments 
being sent to C or C1 were ultimately destined for B, there was no credible adverse 
information available at that time. I note that a warning was later published on the FCA 
website in relation to B, but that didnt happen until February 2020. So it wouldnt have been 
available to view at the time of this conversation. 
Overall, I dont think a more effective intervention when the £8,000 payment was made 
would have made a difference. In these circumstances, the fact that BoS went on to refund 
Mr T £23,000 is more than fair. 
Once Mr T reported that hed been the victim of a scam, BoS contacted the beneficiary 
banks to try to recover his funds. This wasnt successful. I dont think BoS could have done 
more on this point or are responsible for any errors that prevented any recovery. 
Ive also considered whether BoS ought to have done more in relation to raising a 
chargeback for the initial £1,050 debit card payment. I think BoS not pursuing a chargeback 
was a reasonable exercise of their discretion on the matter. 
C1 are a legitimate cryptocurrency exchange. And its most likely that they would have 
always been able to evidence that theyd done what was asked of them. That being, 
converting Mr Ts funds into cryptocurrency and then passing it on to the wallet address 
provided. So any chargeback against C1 was destined to fail as it had provided a service 
and would have been entitled to keep the funds it had been paid. Its also only possible to 
raise a chargeback against the merchant that received the funds, so there would have been 
no option to pursue anything against B directly. 
Overall, I currently think BoS having refunded £23,000 is more than fair in the circumstances 
of this complaint and there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I can direct them to do 
more.Mr T didnt respond to my provisional decision. BoS responded and said they had nothing 
further to add. Now both parties have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with 
my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had any further comments or evidence for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman