DRN-1709105
The complaint 
Mr B has complained that in 2017 Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) changed the type of 
bank account he held without his permission and charged him monthly fees as a result. He 
thinks that these fees were unfair, and that Barclays should refund them to him. 
What happened 
Prior to 2017, Mr B held a packaged bank account, called an Additions account with 
Barclays. He paid a monthly fee for this account and received several potential benefits in 
return. Barclays then switched him to a fee-free account but added a similar, though not 
identical, range of potential benefits, which it called a Tech Pack, to his account. It charged 
him a monthly fee for this pack of potential benefits. 
Mr B has not complained to us about the Additions account, only about the way Barclays 
added the Tech Pack to his account. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mr Bs complaint and didnt think that 
Barclays had done anything significantly wrong. Mr B didnt agree with the adjudicators 
findings and asked for an ombudsman to review his case. So, it has come to me to make a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about Mr Bs complaint. Ive
looked into everything that Mr B and Barclays have told us or sent us about the case and
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I would like to explain the background to this case. During the period from 2015 to 
2017, Barclays took a commercial decision to change the range of bank accounts it offered. 
As result, it withdrew the Additions account from its customers. Along with other banks, 
Barclays is allowed to make changes like this, but has to treat its customers fairly by giving 
them notice, telling them what is happening and providing them with reasonable choices. 
Barclays has said it did this for Mr B. To support its case, it has sent us copies of two letters 
it says it sent to him during late 2016 and early 2017. 
The first letter told Mr B that Barclays intended to switch him to a Barclays Bank Account
with added Tech Pack. It told him how much the Tech Pack would cost (which was less than 
the Additions account) and what features it would provide. It described in outline how these 
features compared to the potential benefits of the Additions account. It also told Mr B that he 
could opt out of the Tech Pack and that if he did so his account would become A Barclays 
Bank Account.with no monthly account fee.... It described how he could opt out either by 
visiting one of Barclays branches or by calling a particular phone number.
Barclays says it sent the second letter to Mr B around four months after the first. This letter 
told Mr B that Barclays had changed his account and that it would start to charge him for the
Tech Pack. It also told him that he could remove the pack from his account at any time and 
so have a fee-free account.
Mr B has told us that he doesnt recall receiving either letter, and also that he wrote letters to 
Barclays which it says it didnt receive. I am sorry to hear this. Obviously, I dont know what 
happened to this correspondence. But Barclays seems to have correctly addressed the two 
letters from which I have quoted, and I think its highly likely that Barclays sent them. 
I cant hold it responsible for what happened afterwards. And I do not think that the letters Mr 
B sent to Barclays would have affected this decision as both sides have had ample 
opportunity to tell us about anything they consider to be significant.  
One of the potential benefits of the Tech Pack was insurance for mobile phones, and Mr B 
has told us that he didnt own a mobile phone and so didnt need the insurance or the Tech 
Pack. I understand his point about this; however, as Barclays letters told Mr B about this 
benefit and gave him a choice to have a fee-free account instead, I cant hold Barclays 
responsible if he didnt want it. And the Tech Pack also provided insurance for other types of 
gadget, which may have been useful to Mr B. 
I do not think that Barclays treated Mr B unfairly when it changed the type of account he held 
and added the Tech Pack.
In correspondence with us about this complaint, Mr B has also said that after Barclays 
switched him to Tech Pack it wrongly charged him other fees when he overdrew his account.
We are considering this as a separate complaint, so I have not mentioned it here. Similarly, 
Mr B has also raised concerns about Barclays declining to extend the term of a loan he held 
and changing his limit on a credit card. I do not know a great deal about these two 
concerns and if or how Barclays has responded to them, and I have not considered them 
here. So, if Mr B wishes, he is free to pursue them further. But I cannot give him any advice 
about this or speculate on the possible outcome of any complaint. Nor do I know if any such 
complaint would fall inside or outside the rules and time limits which determine which 
complaints we can consider. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Mr Bs complaint that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC treated him unfairly when it added a Tech Pack to his account.
I am not going to tell Barclays to give Mr B any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman