DRN-4145850
The complaint
Mr H complains about Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NVs handling of his buildings 
insurance claim.  
Mr H is being represented by Ms C, but for ease I shall refer to Mr H below.
All references to Accelerant also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Our investigator has referenced previously that Mr H accepts the claim may been 
declined correctly in line with the terms of the policy. But, for completeness, Ive 
reviewed whether Accelerant were fair to do so.
Mr H believed the damage had been caused by storms in preceding months to the 
damage becoming apparent. But has been unable to provide a precise date. 
Accelerant declined the claim as it said an insured event hadnt occurred. It said the 
damage caused was due to wear and tear, and possibly by works carried out on a 
neighbouring property.
I can also see Mr H provided comments from a loss adjuster he instructed. And these 
comments also reference the neighbouring works being an issue, wear and tear to 
roof felt internally and that rainwater gullies and tiles are mispositioned. 
Having reviewed everything available to me, I dont think Accelerants conclusion that 
the damage was caused by wear and tear is obviously wrong. Therefore, I dont think 
Accelerant acted unfairly in declining the claim.
But, after initiating the claim, Mr H provided repair quotes to Accelerant in January 
2022. Accelerant acknowledged receiving these, but it said it didnt register the claim 
until around six months later - in July 2022. 
During this period, I can see Mr H contacted Accelerant on multiple occasions for 
updates and to get the claim moving. 
Following this, I can see Accelerant instructed a loss adjuster to visit the property to 
assess the damage, but this wasnt done until October 2022 - now around 10 months 
after the claim was initiated.
During this time, water ingress into the property continued and has now caused 
further damage. Mr H said the cost of completing repairs has now increased 
substantially and he is unable to bear the costs to do so.
So, whilst I think Accelerant were fair in declining the claim. I do think avoidable 
delays and errors, for which Accelerant are responsible, and a lack of action in 
proactively dealing with the claim, have impacted Mr H disproportionately.
Mr H made the claim promptly and took the steps Id reasonably expect in providing 
quotes for repairs and chasing Accelerant to get matters resolved. Accelerant failed 
to progress the claim and didnt send anyone to assess the property for around 10 
months.
So, I think the damage has increased due to Accelerant causing avoidable delays in 
progressing the claim. I think its reasonable it arranges the repairs and covers the 
costs above what Mr H wouldve paid. Which, in these circumstances I think is 
reasonably what was provided in the quotes in January 2022.
The time and effort spent to chase and try to progress matters, the uncertainty in 
whether the claim would be accepted and rectified, and the worsening damage at the 
property would have all caused concern and worry for Mr H. And while claims such 
as this are by nature often worrying and stressful, in the circumstances I think 
Accelerant should pay Mr H £500 compensation for the additional unnecessary 
stress and worry it actions caused.
I acknowledge Accelerants comments Mr H had an obligation mitigate his losses, 
and he should have taken action to carry out repairs when the claim was declined. 
But the repair costs have increased substantially in the period in which Accelerant 
took no action. And had the claim been declined promptly, Mr H would have been in 
a much more reasonable position to meet those costs. So, I dont agree with 
Accelerants point here.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Accelerant agreed to cover internal damage at the property, and it is reasonable it should 
continue to cover this in full, less the appropriate excess. 
Further to this, Accelerant should arrange for repairs to be made in full to the external 
damage at the property. This should be less a contribution from Mr H, which is to be no more 
than the cost set out in the quotes he submitted in January 2022. 
Accelerant should also pay Mr H £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience its 
actions have caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
To put things right I direct Accelerant Insurance Europe SA/NV to do as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman