DRN-3709085
The complaint
Mr S complains that Oodle Financial Services Limited (Oodle) didnt allow him to withdraw 
from a finance agreement he has with them.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The terms of Mr Ss finance agreement allowed him to withdraw from it before the end of 14 
days beginning with the day after he received a copy of the executed agreement. So, he had 
until 5 December 2021 to withdraw.
Ive listened to a call Mr S had with Oodle on 2 December 2021 and Ive seen a letter he 
sent them that was dated the same day. In the call he asked to terminate his finance 
agreement and he did the same in the letter.
So, I think Oodle should have allowed him to end his finance agreement with them.
In those circumstances, clause 9 of his finance agreement explained that hed need to repay 
the credit provided plus interest of £4.86 per day.
I think the problem here appears to be that Oodle confused Mr Ss request to end his finance 
agreement, with a simultaneous request to invoke his short term right to reject the car and 
end the finance agreement because he also said it was of unsatisfactory quality.
If there had been evidence of the car having faults it may have been possible for Mr S to 
reject the car and to terminate his finance agreement under the provisions of the Consumer 
Rights Act (2015). But theres been no expert evidence to support Mr Ss suggestion there 
was anything wrong with the car, so I dont think Oodle were wrong to reject that element of 
Mr Ss complaint.
But I do think they ought to have allowed Mr S to invoke his right to withdraw from the 
finance agreement as he made that request within the 14 day cooling off period.
Putting things right
Oodle should therefore end the finance agreement. 
Mr S says if he was allowed to withdraw from the agreement on 2 December 2021 he would 
have done so as a family member would have repaid the credit. I think that would likely have 
been the case as I can see Mr Ss family member subsequently took over the payments and 
drove the car and continued to offer to repay the credit. So, I think Oodle should compensate 
Mr S for the distress and inconvenience hes experienced as a result of their mistake. 
I think it will have been distressing for Mr S to have to assert his position on several 
occasions and to find that Oodle didnt listen to what he wanted to do. It was clearly a 
stressful period for Mr S, and I was sorry hear about the problems Mr Ss representative has 
detailed about his wellbeing during that time. In the circumstances, I think Oodle should pay 
Mr S £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
It's unfortunate that Oodle didnt accept Mr Ss request to withdraw when he made it, but that 
doesnt detract from the fact that the car was used until it was repossessed in May 2022. 
The car travelled a little over average mileage in that time and its value will have depreciated 
as a result. I think its fair that Mr S pays for that use and I therefore think Oodle should be 
able to charge six monthly finance instalments. Theyll need to arrange an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr S to recover that money.
Oodle will also need to remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file 
in relation to this issue.
I can see that Mr Ss representative has suggested the finance should never have been 
approved for Mr S and that his vulnerability was exploited. Thats not something that Oodle 
have yet been asked to consider and its therefore not something this service can look at 
until they have. If Mr S thinks there is cause to complain about that hell need to refer that 
complaint to Oodle in the first instance.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Oodle Financial Services 
Limited to:
End the finance agreement if they havent already done so.
Agree an affordable payment plan with Mr S to pay for the six months of usage he 
had from the car. That payment being equivalent to six monthly finance instalments.
Pay Mr S £300 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr Ss credit file as a result of 
these issues.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman