DRN-3973396
The complaint
Miss M complains about the settlement that Ageas Insurance Limited offered her following a 
claim made on her motor insurance policy for the theft of her campervan. She wants a higher 
settlement due to the high demand for such vehicles.
What happened
Miss M owned a van she converted into a campervan. After it was stolen, she made a claim 
on her policy. Ageas calculated a value by looking at two of the trade guides we use. Its 
base valuation of the van was £4,723. It then added amounts for materials and labour to 
make the conversion and it added 20% mark up to reflect the current high demand. Ageas 
then offered Miss M £13,886, less her policy excess, in settlement of her claim. But Miss M 
thought it should pay her £30,000 for the loss of her van. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He found valuations for 
Miss Ms van in three of the trade guides we use. He took an average of these and thought 
Ageas base valuation was too low. He thought it should increase this to £5,043. But he 
thought its offer for the cost of materials and labour and its mark up to reflect current 
demand was fair and reasonable. He thought Ageas should pay the difference between the 
two amounts to Miss M with interest from the date of the previous payment. 
Miss M replied that Ageas had underestimated the labour hours required to convert the van 
and she provided photographs of her conversion to show this. She thought Ageas 
settlement wouldnt allow her to replace the van with one of the same quality and 
specification. She said the van had been valued by auctioneers at £30,000. She also said 
that an example provided by Ageas of a similar van was smaller than her van and had a 
lower specification. 
Ageas replied that one valuation used by the Investigator was significantly out of line with the 
others and so should be discounted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss M wants a fair settlement for the loss of her van. The Investigator 
has explained this services approach to vehicle valuations. We dont provide valuations for 
vehicles but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator checked the motor trade guides we use. I can see that he looked for 
unconverted vans of the same make, model, age, mileage, and condition as Miss Ms at the 
date of its loss. He found three valuations, but one valuation was significantly higher than the 
other two. 
I accept that when one of the guides valuation is significantly different to the others, our 
approach is usually to discount it. But Im not satisfied that this would lead to a fair and 
reasonable outcome in this particular case. This is because I can see that Miss Ms van was 
in high demand, and few examples are advertised for sale. 
Current market conditions mean that the values of second-hand vehicles are changing 
rapidly. In some cases, this has meant the motor trade guides have been unable to reflect 
the current market in the valuations. This is especially so in the case of unusual vehicles 
where few examples have been sold. 
So we dont automatically discount a guide as an outlier. Where we can see that a certain 
guide is more in line with adverts the consumer or business have sent us, or with sold prices, 
we may decide it is reasonable to use this to work out the market value. 
Ageas provided one example of a van to compare with Miss Ms van. This was advertised at 
£12,500. But I can see that this is a smaller van with a lower specification than Miss Ms van. 
I can see that Ageas offered Miss M more than this in settlement of her claim. But Im not 
satisfied that this is a fair comparison as Miss M made her own conversion and I cant see 
how the advertised example was converted. 
However, I can see that the outlier valuation fond by our Investigator is supported by current 
sold prices. And so I think its reasonable to include it and to then take an average of the 
three trade guide valuations to give Miss M a fair settlement of her claim. This means that a 
reasonable base value for the van would be £5,043. Ageas valuation was lower than this, so 
Im satisfied that it wasnt reasonable. And so I think it should increase its settlement offer to 
take this into account.
Ageas included in its settlement an engineers estimate for labour and materials needed to 
then convert the van. I understand that Miss M converted her own van, and this took her 
longer than Ageas estimate. But I think its fair and reasonable for Ageas to rely on Ageas 
engineers professional estimate in the absence of further evidence. So I dont require Ageas 
to increase its estimate for materials and labour to convert the van. 
Ageas also acknowledged the current high demand for converted vans and added a mark up 
of 20% to its valuation. I think thats fair and reasonable, and Ageas should reasonably apply 
this to the higher valuation. As Miss M has been without her money for some time, I think 
Ageas should reasonably add interest to the increase in Miss Ms settlement. 
Miss M said an auctioneer valued her van at £30,000. But we dont consider auctioneers 
valuations to be reliable as they have an interest in increasing the sale price. So I cant 
reasonably consider this as evidence to support a further increase in the settlement. 
Putting things right
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to increase its base valuation of Miss Ms van to £5,043, 
add its estimate for materials and labour and 20% mark up, and pay her the difference 
between this amount and its previous payment. Interest should be added to this difference at 
the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of the initial payment to the date of the final 
settlement. 
If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Ageas Insurance Limited to carry out the redress set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman