DRN-4310713
The complaint
Mr R, a sole trader, complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc that led 
to his business account being temporarily frozen.
What happened
The following is intended only as a brief summary of events. Mr R has held a business 
account with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) for many years. Due to an error by RBS, 
his wife was named as the sole proprietor of the account. 
Sadly, Mrs R passed away in October 2022. And, as a result, the account was frozen. Mr R 
was unable to resolve this issue himself and his adult children have assisted him both in 
resolving the problem and bringing this complaint. 
The account was eventually unfrozen after around three months. During this time, Mr R had 
to use his own personal finances to support the operation of his business and take a more 
active role in this business itself. Mr R and representatives suffered a great deal of 
inconvenience, and this was at a time when they were already no doubt greatly distressed 
by Mrs Rs passing. 
RBS acknowledged it was responsible for the situation. It corrected the accounts, apologised 
for the error and offered £500 in compensation, as well as offering to consider any direct 
monetary consequences of the error. I note that it has also waived some charges that were 
incurred on the account during the period it was frozen. 
Mr R was not satisfied with this outcome. And felt that a higher level of compensation was 
appropriate. Our Investigator agreed with this and recommended that RBS increase the 
compensation to £1,000. RBS agreed to this, but Mr R did not. He and his representatives 
did not consider this adequately reflected the strain created by the situation. 
As our Investigator has been unable to resolve this complaint, it has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as the Investigator, for largely the 
same reasons. 
RBS has agreed that it is at fault for the situation. So, this complaint is largely limited to 
considering what needs to happen to address this.
Our role when considering a situation where a financial business has made a mistake is to 
try and put the parties back in the position they would have been in had no mistake been 
made. There are two potential consequences to the situation Mr R found himself in. He could 
have suffered direct financial detriment  for example he may have incurred charges and 
costs that he otherwise would not have, had the account not been frozen. And he may have 
suffered distress and/or inconvenience. 
In terms of the first of these consequences, RBS has waived charges it is aware of and has 
offered to consider any other financial losses Mr R incurred. In doing so, I consider RBS has 
appropriately put Mr R back in the financial position he otherwise would be had there been 
no mistake. 
Turning to the non-financial consequences, it is clear that this whole episode would have 
had a substantial impact on Mr R. And whilst RBS is only responsible for the impact of its 
mistake, this issue arose at a time when Mr R would already have been distressed. So, the 
impact of RBSs mistake was likely greater than it would otherwise have been. 
Mr R was unable to resolve this situation himself, partly due to his difficulties with dealing 
with modern technology, as highlighted by his representative, but also no doubt because of 
the grief he was suffering. In considering the impact of RBSs mistake, I am limited to 
considering the impact on Mr R, rather than directly on his representatives. However, Mr R 
would have likely been aware that the issue was not resolved and that he was asking his 
children to continue to deal this whilst going through their own grief. The knowledge of 
putting this burden on them during this time would no doubt have been distressing for Mr R.
I have also noted that the situation took longer to resolve than might be expected and that 
there were communication issues with RBS during this period. Mr Rs representatives have 
highlighted some of the impacts this had. But I am only considering the impact of the issue, 
rather than the fact the initial error from RBS seems to have taken place many years ago. 
Whilst the account had, in effect, been incorrectly set up for a number of years, this does not 
appear to have had any detriment prior to the current issue. So, there was limited impact 
from RBSs error prior to the account being frozen. 
Taking all of these points into account, I consider that the initial offer from RBS for £500 
compensation does not adequately reflect the impact on Mr R. However, I agree with our 
Investigator that an award of £1,000 does. 
I appreciate Mr R and his representatives do not consider this to be sufficient. But, taking all 
of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I am satisfied that this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Putting things right
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay Mr R £1,000 in compensation if it has not 
already done so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman