DRN-2015848
The complaint
Your text here Mrs B, who is represented by a third party, says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds), 
then trading as Lloyds TSB, mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) in December 
1998. 
What happened
Mrs B took out the PPI to be used with a credit card. She says she was made to feel she had 
to take out the PPI even though she didnt need to have it. 
One of our adjudicators looked at Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think her PPI was mis-sold. 
Because Mrs B disagrees her complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think Lloyds made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI. But from what Ive 
seen it looks like she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant 
remember this. 
Mrs B says she bought the PPI at a meeting. Ive seen that Lloyds accepts that it made a 
recommendation that she should buy the cover and that the sale most likely happened at a 
meeting in a branch. So Ive looked at the sale on the basis that Lloyds needed to make sure 
the card was suitable for her and also that it gave her enough information so that she could 
make an informed choice about whether she wanted to take it.
Ive seen a copy of the actual application form on which Mrs B has ticked a box to show she 
wanted to take out PPI. Given that the card and PPI were taken out at a meeting, I think 
Mrs B would have had the opportunity to discuss taking PPI with a Lloyds representative at 
the time and then to review the application form before she signed it. So I think it was up to 
her to make a decision about whether she wanted the PPI with her card and she decided 
she did. 
Ive noticed that Mrs B also says she was pressured into taking out the PPI. Pressure is 
something thats difficult to prove, especially given that that the sale of the PPI happened so 
long ago. And being told that its a good idea to have PPI isnt the same as being told that it 
must be taken out. So I dont think Im able to make a finding that Mrs B was pressured 
based on what shes told us plus taking into consideration the evidence and information 
thats available from the sale. 
It looks like Mrs B was eligible for the policy and I haven't seen anything to suggest she 
would have been disadvantaged by the main exclusions and limitations of the policy. Mrs B 
has told us she was self-employed. But from what I've seen about the type of policy she had 
she wouldn't be in any worse position to make a claim than someone in full-time 
employment. I've also seen that the PPI would pay out for up to 12 months per claim, which 
would have been available in addition to any other sources of income she may have 
had. Other than that, I cant see that Mrs B was affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI cover and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
I also think Mrs B received some information about the policy at the time of the sale and 
would have been given the full policy wording either at the meeting or by post soon 
afterwards. For instance, the monthly cost of the card , being 77p per £100 owed on the 
card, was shown on the application form. But its still possible the information Lloyds gave 
Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. Given that she chose to take it out, 
though, it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover  so it would have been useful to her if something went wrong. 
Overall, therefore, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs B off 
taking out the cover. 
I realise that Mrs B will find this outcome disappointing, especially given the difficult 
circumstances she told us about in relation to an unemployment claim she tried to make that 
was unsuccessful.  But from the situation she described I still dont think this suggests the 
PPI was mis-sold. But I would like to assure her that Ive reached my finding having carefully 
considered all the evidence and information she has provided. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman