DRN-1913923
The complaint
Mrs P has complained about her home insurer Aviva Insurance Limited because it avoided 
her policy (treated it as though it had never existed) and, by association, declined a claim 
shed made to it.
What happened
Mrs P arranged a policy with Aviva which commenced in December 2012 and ran for one 
year. The cover was not renewed. 
In 2013 Mrs P made a claim to Aviva which it began investigating. Aviva then discovered 
that Mrs P had made several previous claims which she hadnt disclosed to it when the 
policy was arranged. Mrs P denied knowledge of some of the claims and stated that one, 
from 2010, wasnt really a claim because it involved damage caused by a previous insurer. 
Regarding a claim from 2008, Mrs P accepted she should have disclosed this and 
apologised. Aviva had other concerns at the time too but stated that the claims from 2008 
and 2009 alone would have been sufficient reason for it to not have offered a policy if it had 
been told about them. It confirmed it was avoiding the policy.
Aviva said it was also unhappy in respect of some claim issues. It alleged that Mrs P had 
acted fraudulently. But it explained that it was only reserving its rights in respect of the fraud 
argument  its primary position was that it was avoiding Mrs Ps policy.
Mrs P objected to this. She felt Aviva had no grounds for avoiding her cover because she 
had never meant to mislead it. She noted she had disclosed one very expensive claim so it 
made no logical sense for her, she felt, to have done this whilst withholding detail regarding 
others. There were three claims she hadnt known about and regarding the one from 2008, 
which she accepted she should have disclosed, she said shed got her dates muddled up 
and thought it had occurred earlier (outside of the five-year window Aviva had asked about). 
When Aviva wasnt minded to change its position Mrs P complained to this service.
 
Our investigator felt Mrs P should have told Aviva about the claims and, if it had been made 
aware of the history, it wouldnt have offered cover. So, she thought its act of avoiding the 
policy was fair and reasonable. However, Aviva was told it should refund Mrs Ps premium, 
plus interest, as it hadnt established any grounds for it to fairly withhold it.
Mrs P maintained that the avoidance was unfair. She asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Aviva agreed with the findings
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted above that Aviva raised further concerns with Mrs P, beyond the issue of her 
claims history. Im aware of the other issues but havent gone into detail about them here. 
The other issues are secondary to Avivas concerns about Mrs Ps claim history and it has 
shown this service that, if it had known about the claims, it wouldnt have offered cover. So 
only if I find against it regarding the claim history would I need to address its other concerns.  
When Mrs P arranged the policy Aviva asked her to tell it if she or anyone living with her had 
suffered any claims, losses, damage or liability incidents in the last five years. It was always 
Mrs Ps responsibility to make sure she gave Aviva correct information in response to this 
clear question. 
Mrs P told Aviva shed made a claim in 2009 for storm damage. But she didnt tell it about 
four other claims shed made between 2008 and 2010. One of Avivas senior underwriters 
has confirmed that if it had been made aware of Mrs Ps claim history for that period when 
she arranged cover, no policy would have been offered. Ive considered then why Mrs P 
didnt tell Aviva about the other claims and decided whether or not I think she reasonably 
should have done. 
Regarding one of the 2008 claims Mrs P said she had been muddled with her dates. Whilst 
I appreciate that keeping track of things can be difficult, Mrs P should have taken care when 
giving Aviva information to make sure the right information was given to it. Mrs P could have 
checked the date of this claim before deciding to only tell Aviva about the 2009 storm claim. 
Mrs P said she had no recollection of another claim made in 2008 or a claim which had been 
logged regarding lost jewellery in 2009. Whilst there is little detail available about these two, 
relatively minor claims, Mrs P should, in my view, have checked her claims history in respect 
of the 2008 claim which she was aware of but thought had happened earlier. If she had 
shed have found out about these two claims and been able to share the detail with Aviva.
In respect of the 2010 claim Mrs P has said she did not make a claim  contractors must 
have done this on her behalf. And because she hadnt made a claim, and believed the 
incident related to damage caused by a contractor, she hadnt told Aviva about it. Ive seen 
correspondence on this subject which took place after the damage occurred and before the 
policy with Aviva was arranged. Im satisfied that, whether or not Mrs P actively made a 
claim, she was aware that the matter was being treated as such; multiple references to the 
claim are made (both by Mrs P and her then insurer) and Mrs P is made aware that an 
excess is being taken. At no time in that correspondence does Mrs P object to the matter 
being dealt with as a claim or suggest that she believes the contractor caused the damage. 
I think Mrs P did know there was a claim and she should have disclosed this to Aviva. 
Im not sure why Mrs P didnt disclose this claim to Aviva. Her answer for why she didnt, as 
Ive explained above, doesnt make sense to me. But I bear in mind that she did disclose a 
more expensive claim from 2009. Importantly, Aviva hasnt shown me that Mrs P most likely 
deliberately withheld this information from it. 
In an instance like this, the insurer is entitled to act as it would have done if it had been given 
the correct information. Aviva has satisfied me that, had it been told about the claims, it 
wouldnt have offered cover. That means Aviva was entitled to avoid Mrs Ps policy and, by 
so doing, decline the damage claim. But Aviva should always have refunded the premium to 
Mrs P  because the act of avoidance resets things to a point where it is as though they 
never entered into a contract together. It is only where an insurer shows that the prospective 
policyholder deliberately misled it into offering that cover that it is entitled to keep the 
premium paid to it. And as Ive said above, Aviva hasnt shown that is the case. Im satisfied 
that it should now refund that money, plus interest*.
Putting things rightIm satisfied that Aviva owes Mrs P reimbursement of the premium she paid to it. I, therefore, 
require Aviva to return the premium to Mrs P now, plus interest*, from the date of its 
avoidance in June 2014 until settlement is made.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mrs P, it should tell her how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs P a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide the redress set out 
above at putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman