DRN-3330698
The complaint
Mr J complains that the changes Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) made to its overdraft 
pricing structure were unfair. He says that:
When Barclays moved to charge interest on a standard daily rate, customers with 
lower overdraft balances paid proportionally more than those with higher overdraft 
balances. 
This is unfair as it does not take into account the lower risk of someone with a 
smaller overdraft balance. 
Mr J would like Barclays to put this right by:
Repaying the charges and fees that he paid.
Removing any negative entries on his credit file that relate to the period when his 
overdraft remained unpaid. 
Paying compensation for the time and effort, and the anguish, that this matter has 
caused, and the impact his credit poor credit file had had on his ability to get credit. 
He considers reasonable compensation for this to be up to £200,000.
What happened
Mr J says he has been a customer of Barclays since around 1999. He has had loan and 
current accounts with Barclays over this time. In this decision Im only looking at Mr Js 
complaint about the overdraft charges applied from 16 May 2013 onwards. Ive issued a 
separate jurisdiction decision about the complaint Mr J has made about the charges applied 
before this time. 
Mr J complained to Barclays after it had changed its overdraft pricing structure, I understand 
this was in May 2019. He said this change was unfair. Barclays didnt uphold his complaint. 
And as Mr J didnt agree with this outcome he referred the complaint to this service.
When our adjudicator was gathering information about this complaint Barclays made an offer 
to settle it. It offered to refund all the fees and charges Mr J had paid on the overdraft 
between May 2013 and July 2019 when the overdraft was closed. This offer was put to Mr J 
but he didnt accept it. Mr J thinks the offer is not fair as it doesnt include interest on the 
compensation. So, the compensation is worth less now that it would have been when the 
charges were incurred. 
Mr Js complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought that:
She shouldnt consider Mr Js complaint about how Barclays had changed its 
overdraft pricing. This was a business decision it was entitled to make. 
From his overdraft usage it looked like Mr J may have been in financial difficulty. So, 
she agreed that the refund of overdraft fees and charges was fair. 
She didnt think it was fair to award any further compensation for any distress this 
may have caused Mr J or any interest on the refund of the overdraft fees and 
charges.  
Mr J hasnt agreed so the case has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, I think that Barclays acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees. But Im not making a further 
compensation award than the offer Barclays has already made. 
Mr J has given an example of the overdraft charges he thinks are unfair. He says that these 
charges are £1.50 per day on an overdraft balance of around £2,000 and £3 per day on a 
balance of around £5,000. He thinks that this means that customers with lower overdraft 
balances pay a proportionately higher charge. And this is unfair as these customers pose a 
lower risk to Barclays. 
Ill firstly explain that my role here is to look at individual complaints. And to decide if a 
business has acted fairly in respect of a persons individual circumstances. I wont look at the 
fairness of decision that affects all customers. This is the role of the industry regulator the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).  
And there are good reasons for this. In relation to Mr Js complaint, as outlined above, hes 
assessed the risk of some of Barclays customers based on the size of their borrowing. But 
assessing the risk of any individual customer is much more complex than this and assessing 
the risk of a customer base is more complex again. I dont have the information to be able to 
adequately do this. 
And Barclays can, and should, make its own commercial decisions. And this is something I 
wouldnt normally consider. And it wouldnt be right for me to do this here. 
Mr J has said that recent rules and guidance changes by the FCA means that earlier 
charges must have been incorrect. But this isnt necessarily the case. Rules and regulation 
changes are made to account for a number of factors over time. And its generally unfair to 
retrospectively apply these. So, I wont do this here. 
Overall, because of the above factors, I wont be upholding Mr Js complaint on the basis 
that its been made. 
Our adjudicator thought the use of the overdraft showed that Mr J was possibly in financial 
difficulty. And Barclays had already agreed to refund the overdraft fees and charges that 
were applied to the account between May 2013 to the closure of the overdraft in July 2019. 
Barclays hasnt admitted liability. 
I havent fully considered whether it was right for Barclays to individually apply these 
charges. This is because if I were to uphold this aspect of Mr Js complaint I would award the 
same as Barclays has already offered. So, I wont comment further, save to say I agree that the fees and charges should be returned to Mr J, as Barclays has already said it will. Ive put 
this in my putting things right section below.  
And this is based on Mr Js individual circumstances. It is not because of any overall 
unfairness of Barclays charges.
Mr J doesnt fully agree with this offer. He thinks he should be awarded a significant further 
amount for the distress and inconvenience this issue has caused him. 
In order for me to make a distress and inconvenience award I must uphold Mr Js complaint 
about the issues he is complaining about. Whilst I think some compensation should be paid, 
I dont think his complaint should be upheld about the general fairness of the charges. And, 
so whilst I can see that Mr J has spent a lot of time on this, I dont think it would be right to 
award anything further than the refund of the charges he paid. 
And I dont think that interest should be added to the charges that are being returned to Mr J. 
Mr J didnt clear his overdraft balance when the charges were added so he didnt actually 
pay them. So, this compensation effectively gives Mr J an interest free loan. And, if the fees 
and charges are refunded Mr J has had the benefit of borrowing money at the time free of 
charge. I think this is fair resolution to this complaint. 
Mr J has asked for any negative entries on his credit file to be removed when he didnt repay 
the overdraft. But these entries were for non-payment of the whole facility, which would 
include the non-payment of the amounts he had borrowed, not just the fees and charges. Mr 
J had the use of this money but was unable to pay it back as agreed. So, I think its fair that 
his credit report properly reflected this. And its worth noting that Barclays is required to 
accurately report the payment history of any lending and it is reasonable that it takes action 
when credit has not been repaid as agreed. 
Overall, I think Mr Js complaint should succeed in part. He should receive a refund of the 
fees and charges that he paid on his overdraft between May 2013 and July 2019. I dont 
uphold the other aspects of his complaint. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Js complaint for Barclays to put things right by returning to Mr J all of 
the fees and charges he paid on his overdraft from 13 May 2013 to the closure of his 
overdraft in July 2019.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, partly uphold Mr Js complaint. Barclays should put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman