DRN-2503893
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Dunfermline Building Society. Dunfermline Building Society later merged with 
Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide), so Nationwide is responsible for answering this 
complaint. For simplicity Ill just refer to Nationwide from now on. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took out the PPI alongside a mortgage. Its not entirely clear when this 
happened  Mr and Mrs R said they moved to the property in question in November 1995, 
and then took out a further advance in 1996. They thought they probably took out the PPI 
alongside the original mortgage in 1995. Nationwide couldnt confirm the start date, but a list 
of transactions provided to us showed the mortgage account in existence in April 1996.
Nationwide said that Mr and Mrs R would have applied for the mortgage and PPI during a 
meeting in a branch, and would not have been offered advice about the PPI. Mr and Mrs R 
agreed about the meeting, but said they were advised to take the PPI, and indeed felt they 
may not have been granted the loan without it. They also said that they didnt need the policy 
as Mr R (the insured) had good employee benefits. 
The policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr R at a monthly cost 
of £24.36 (in April 1996). Nationwide said the monthly benefit would have been around 
£400.00. If Mr R had made a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 
months per claim. Mrs R was working part-time at the time of the sale and was not eligible 
for the cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs R disagreed, and 
asked that it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
This is a difficult case to decide given the lack of information from Mr and Mrs Rs PPI sale. 
Having said that, the absence of documentation is unsurprising given that the mortgage was 
repaid around 18 years ago, in February 2003, and businesses are not required to keep 
records indefinitely. 
Nationwide sent in a list of transactions on Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage account from April 
1996 to February 2003, and sample copies of a PPI application form from the time of the 
sale and a mortgage statement from 2002. We have in our files a copy of the PPI policy 
document from 1995/6, and Mr and Mrs R have provided their detailed recollection of 
events. I have based my decision on what I consider most likely to have happened, taking 
into account all of this evidence and information. 
Mr and Mrs R said the sale took place in a meeting, and they were advised to take the PPI, 
and indeed felt pressured to take it. Their recollections were quite detailed, and I have 
considered them carefully. In summary, they said that the salesperson - who they knew - 
would have had personal knowledge (through a relative) that there was a risk of Mr R being 
unable to make the mortgage payments in the case of redundancy, and that there was 
general uncertainty and restructuring in the industry in which Mr R was working - and this 
was discussed with the salesperson. Mr and Mrs R went on to say that the salesperson 
emphasised that it would 'probably be a good idea' to take out the PPI to offset the risk and 
that they were left with the impression that they would have to take the policy to get the 
mortgage. 
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs R have said. I accept they may have taken the 
salesperson saying it was a good idea as meaning that they had to have the policy - but their 
description of events makes me think the salesperson most likely advised them to take the 
policy (even if this went further than the salesperson would normally do) rather than exerted 
pressure on them to do so. Ive also looked at the sample PPI application form, and theres 
nothing on there to suggest that the PPI was compulsory. So overall, I think its most likely 
that Mr and Mrs R had a choice about taking the PPI. 
Nationwide said that advice wouldnt have been offered on the PPI policy. Mr and Mrs R 
disagreed, and as Ive said, their description of events leads me to think that, in this 
particular case, its most likely they were advised to take it. So the salesperson should have 
made sure the policy was suitable for Mr R (the insured). I think it was.
I cant know how the salesperson explained the PPI - especially the things not covered. But I 
cant see that Mr R wouldve been affected by any of these. He said hed had no health 
problems at the time of the sale (he did mention a health issue but said hed had no time off 
work, and from a transcript of a conversation between Mr R and Nationwide during the 
course of this complaint, it seems this did not require a formal diagnosis). Overall, I cant see 
any reason why Mr R might not have been able to make a claim on the policy. 
Mr and Mrs R told us that Mr R wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of six 
months full pay followed by six months half pay. They didnt mention having had any 
savings they could have relied on. So I think Mr and Mrs R couldve found it difficult to meet 
the mortgage payments once Mr Rs sick pay reduced or if hed lost his job  and Ive kept in 
mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a successful claim 
In any case, I think Mr and Mrs R could reasonably have wanted to protect an important 
commitment that was secured on their home, especially as Mr R was the main income 
earner. And as Ive noted above, Mr and Mrs R had concerns about uncertainty in Mr Rs 
industry. So I think the PPI was a reasonable recommendation to make. 
Its not clear how the cost of the PPI was explained to Mr and Mrs R, but I dont think its 
likely that they would have agreed to take the PPI without some idea of the amount theyd 
need to pay. And Ive no evidence to suggest the premium was unaffordable for them. 
On balance, although I cant know whether Nationwide clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Mr and Mrs R would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided 
useful protection if Mr R couldnt work. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs R, as I can see 
they feel strongly about this, but my conclusion is that, on the evidence I have, I cant fairly 
say the PPI was mis-sold.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman