DRN-2026089
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs P says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr P and Mrs P were sold an PPI policy with a mortgage in 2001. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.  
Mr P and Mrs P say they had taken PPI to cover the mortgage in 1994 and had no need for 
an additional policy in 2001. They dont recall PPI being discussed or agreed to at that time.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr P and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
The sale took place a long time ago. So, there is understandably limited information 
available from the times of sale. But I can see that there were amendments made to their 
mortgage in 2001. Bank of Scotland has provided evidence that shows this changed 
Mr P and Mrs Ps total monthly repayment to about £238 per month. And the new PPI 
policy provided cover that exact amount. 
So, I think it is most likely that  given Mr P and Mrs P had wanted PPI cover in 1994, 
that Mr P and Mrs P agreed to take an additional policy to cover their increased 
repayments in 2001. There is insufficient evidence that would allow me to conclude that 
Bank of Scotland didnt make it clear that Mr P and Mrs P had a choice about whether to 
take out the PPI or that they didnt choose to take it out. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr P and Mrs P, so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example, they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover. With the two policies, 
they had a benefit level that exceeded their monthly mortgage repayments by £67. But it 
is not unusual for extra cover to be taken to ensure that a customer can cover things 
related to owning a property, such as utility bills. So, I dont think this extra cover means 
the policy was mis-sold.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr P and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means Bank of Scotland doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P and 
Mrs P. But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P and Mrs P 
because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr P and Mrs P about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt tell Mr P and Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr P and Mrs P have said. But these points dont change my 
decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P and Mrs P.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr P and Mrs P any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman