DRN-3317936
The complaint
Mr P complains about the exchange rate used by The Co-operative Bank Plc trading as 
smile on a payment into his account.
What happened
Mr P holds an account with smile. In 2021, he received a payment into his account in Euros, 
which smile converted into Sterling. He complained to smile about the exchange rate it had 
used to convert the funds. He said hed researched exchange rates online and that the rate 
used was inflated and extremely unfavourable to him. He wanted smile to recalculate the 
payment using a fairer and more realistic exchange rate.
Smile didnt uphold the complaint as it said it hadnt made a mistake. It explained that the 
exchange rate it used was based on the Bank of England rate and currency exchange 
markets on the day of the conversion. 
Mr P wasnt happy with smiles response and brought the complaint to this service. Our 
Investigator didnt think smile needed to do anything here. But Mr P didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account confirm that smile will use its standard rate of 
exchange for incoming payments in a foreign currency. By opening and continuing to use his 
account, Mr P agreed to be bound by these terms and conditions. And, from the information 
available to me, Im satisfied that smile converted the currency in line with them. 
Smile has explained that its standard exchange rate is based on the mid-market rate which 
is checked three times during the day. Its website states that exchange rates vary from day 
to day and provides a phone number for customers to call if they want to find out the current 
rate. I think thats reasonable. The phone number is also set out in the terms and conditions.
Smile also applies a margin when converting funds. This is set out clearly on its website. I 
havent seen anything to suggest that smile treated Mr Ps payment any differently from how 
it said it would in the terms and conditions or on the website. So I dont think it made a 
mistake or acted unreasonably here.
I understand that the payment was sent to Mr P by a third party. Im not sure if he knew in 
advance when the funds were going to be credited to his account. So I understand that he 
may not have been in a position to call smile on the day of the payment to find out the 
exchange rate. And he may not have had any control over when or how the payment was 
sent to him. It seems that the third party payer left the currency conversion to be done by Mr 
Ps bank upon receipt of the funds, rather than converting them at the outset. Mr P may wish 
to discuss that with the payer as its possible he would have asked it to take a different 
approach if hed had the choice. But I dont find that smile did anything wrong in the way it 
dealt with the incoming payment.
I realise that Mr P doesnt think the amount charged by smile was fair. But, as our 
Investigator explained, its not the role of this service to tell smile what exchange rate to use 
or what fees it can charge. What we look at is whether it acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances of the case. I think it did here because I find that it treated the payment in the 
way it said it would and that this information was available to Mr P. So, Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr P but Im not going to ask smile to do anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman