DRN-2293934
The complaint
Mr G, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) mis-sold him a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in or around March 2002. 
What happened
The PPI was to be used alongside mortgage borrowing that had been taken to refinance 
an existing mortgage. 
Mr G says he wasnt given a choice about taking out the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt think that HSBC had mis-sold the PPI policy. Mr G disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to look at their complaint again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. I will explain why below.
Ive seen that Mr G and HSBC agree that he took out the PPI at a meeting at an HSBC 
branch. They also agree that HSBC made a recommendation that Mr G take out the cover. 
So HSBC needed to make sure that the PPI was suitable for Mr Gs situation and that the 
information it gave him was clear and not misleading. 
HSBC cant provide all the sale paperwork because the sale took place so long ago. But  
that doesnt mean I must draw negative conclusions about the sale. Taking into account 
what I know about the sales process and the way the PPI application worked, I would have 
expected that a discussion would have taken place with HSBCs representative when the 
application form was signed. Ive seen evidence that Mr Gs details and information about 
his situation was noted down when he discussed taking out his mortgage. This included a 
discussion about his insurance needs when Mr G told HSBC that protecting his income 
was a financial priority. 
I also would have expected Mr G to look through the paperwork before he signed it, so that 
he would have been aware he was buying PPI. I therefore also think he would most likely 
have known that he had the option not to buy it if he didnt want to. Ive also seen a letter to 
Mr G from HSBC time setting out the PPI recommendation which reinforces my view that 
Mr G ought to have realised that he didnt have to take the PPI.
Ive also noticed that HSBC was offering the PPI free for the first six months. This was a 
promotion to encourage customers to buy PPI cover. As HSBC was promoting the PPI 
to its customers, this suggests to me that Mr G would have known he had a choice 
about whether or not to buy it. And given that Im aware that the monthly PPI payment 
would have been taken separately from Mr Gs bank account, Mr G would have had to 
fill out a direct debit form to authorise the PPI payment to be taken, which would be 
separate to his mortgage payments. 
Ive then looked at whether the PPI was suitable for Mr G, given what we know of his 
circumstances. Given what Ive seen, I dont think the policy was unsuitable. I say this 
because I cant see that Mr G was disadvantaged by any of the common limitations or 
conditions on the cover. It appears that he was in good health and in full time employment 
when he applied for the policy. Also, his age and the fact that he lived in the UK made him 
eligible for the policy.
Mr G has told us that he was entitled to generous sick pay from his employers of around 
twelve months at full pay. He also told us he had a good savings level of savings that 
would have covered him for twelve months. But I dont think this necessarily made the 
policy unsuitable. I understand the benefits of the policy, which would pay out for up to 
twelve months, would be paid in addition to his employee benefits. This could reduce the 
pressure on managing regular expenses and outgoings during a period of long-term 
sickness. 
The policy could also help because Mr G wouldnt have to dip into  and potentially use up 
 the savings he told us about in order to meet his mortgage payments if he was unable to 
work or lost his job. I do note however from HSBC system information Ive seen that Mr G 
hadnt mentioned to HSBC about these savings when he discussed arranging his 
mortgage. Ive also kept in mind that it looks as if Mr G had decided to take some 
additional borrowing to pay for home improvements without using those existing savings. 
So I consider that maintaining a good level of savings would likely have been important to 
him. So overall the PPI seems like a benefit which could have been useful to Mr G.
Mr G also told us he had an existing income protection policy he could rely on. However, I 
see that HSBCs representative had also discussed taking out income protection cover with 
Mr G when he was arranging his mortgage borrowing. Unfortunately Mr G hasnt been able 
to provide us with details of the policy. Income protection is different to PPI in that its 
benefit replaces a proportion of income rather than, in this case, protecting a mortgage. 
And each policy has its own rules about when it will pay out. Without having details of the 
policy and how it operates, I cant really comment further as to how it would have worked 
alongside Mr Gs PPI. 
It might be that HSBC could have explained the policy more clearly. But the information I 
have seen about the sale, together with what I know about the PPI and the sales process, 
doesnt make me think that better information would have changed Mr Gs decision to take 
out the policy.
I therefore wont be upholding this complaint. I realise that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Gs complaint and so HSBC 
UK Bank Plc does not have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 March 2021. 
Michael GoldbergOmbudsman