DRN-3769990
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited made an error that meant he 
missed out on his ISA allowance for 2019/2020 for £20,000.
What happened
Mr H holds an investment account with Nutmeg. On 1 April 2020 he asked Nutmeg if the 
£20,000 hed deposited would be applied to his stocks and shares ISA before the end of the 
tax year. He was told that it would. Later he found out that the money had gone into the 
general investment account rather than his ISA. Nutmeg said that this was because his ISA 
wasnt set to auto-renew which meant he didnt have an ISA open to put the money into. 
Nutmeg accepted that it shouldve spotted this when Mr H was asking and had it done so, 
the ISA subscription wouldve been made on time.
Nutmeg calculated redress in line with the approach the Financial Ombudsman Service sets 
and offered him £1,500 to settle the complaint. Mr H said hes missed out on a lot more than 
that amount and asked for the Financial Ombudsman Service to investigate.
Whilst our Investigator was considering the complaint there were additional offers made from 
Nutmeg after considering different calculations to work out the potential Capital Gains Tax 
(CGT) liability that Mr H may incur from the error. The most recent offer is a total of £7,000.
Mr H didnt accept this offer and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. He said 
that he intended to hold his ISA for 30 years, and the fund he invested in has historical 
performance of 8.8% which is the return rate that should be used. Mr H also said that if 
Nutmeg wanted to reduce the redress in line with inflation, then a rate of 2% should be used. 
He also felt that he wouldnt have any of his CGT allowance available.
Nutmeg felt that inflation should be applied at a rate of 5.5%. However it said it would accept 
a rate of 2% but would reduce the return on the investment to 5.74%. It said that it would 
calculate the loss as if Mr H held his ISA for 20 years rather than 10 years.
Our Investigator felt that the return rate should be 8.8% and the inflation rate applied should 
be 2.5% and it should be calculated over a 20 year period. 
I sent my provisional decision on 13 September 2022 in which I explained I intended to 
uphold the complaint. I said aside from the term, there was no reason to depart from the 
Financial Ombudsman Services usual approach for redress. The relevant extract, which 
forms part of this decision, is as follows:
The only thing for me to decide in this case is the financial loss that Mr H has/is likely to 
incur because of the error Nutmeg has acknowledged it has made. Its not in dispute that Mr 
Hs £20,000 deposit ought to have been protected from tax inside an ISA wrapper. What is in 
dispute, is how to put things right.
The position that has been put forward by all parties at this point doesnt follow our published 
guidance. And, aside from the length of time Mr H wouldve held the investment for, I see no 
reason to depart from the guidance. To clarify, the issue that Mr H faces is that any growth of 
the £20,000 investment he made will now be subject to CGT. Especially because its clear 
from the evidence that Mr H is able to, and does, fully fund his ISA allowance each year. 
This means there isnt space to absorb the £20,000 into his ongoing ISA subscription. In 
cases like this we make the following assumptions:
1. Any charges on holding the investment outside the ISA will not be significantly 
different from those that would have applied if it had been held within an ISA
2. Mr H will pay tax on the investment at the highest rate applicable to him 
3. Mr Hs tax position will remain unchanged for as long as they hold the investment
4. The tax position of the investment will remain unchanged while he holds it
5. If the investment pays dividend distributions, it will return 7.5% each year (made up 
of 5% growth and 2.5% dividend)
6. If the investment pays interest distributions, it will return 6% each year (made up of 
1% growth and 5% interest)
7. If the investment doesnt pay either interest or dividends (e.g. growth stocks), it will 
grow at 7.5% each year
8. The investment will be held for 10 years before it is sold.
In Mr Hs case, hes an additional rate tax payer and looking at his job I cant see any reason 
to suspect that his tax position will change over the next 20 years. And this is the only point 
that I see fit to depart from the above assumptions.
The redress is to ensure that Mr H doesnt lose out when he sells his investment as if it was 
inside the ISA wrapper, he wouldnt pay any CGT. Ordinarily we expect investments to be 
sold after 10 years. However, Mr H is in his thirties and has a senior position at work. I think 
its very likely hed have no reason to cash in his investments for many years to come. Mr H 
has said he would hold his investments for 30 years. I think this is too long a time period to 
suggest. I think its likely that after 20 years, Mr H may be wanting to cash in some of his 
investments. I do accept that usually we suggest 10 years, but Ive not seen anything to 
show me that Mr H would likely have a need or desire to sell his investments in that 
timeframe given his age, position and current salary. So, it follows that I think we should use 
the assumption of 20 years when calculating what hes lost out on in the circumstances of 
this case.
Other than this I see no reason to depart from our usual approach. I appreciate Mr H has 
sent evidence showing historic performance of the fund he invests in and this shows 8.8%. 
But historic performance isnt a guarantee of future performance and were looking over a 
very long timescale here. So I dont think its enough to depart from our usual approach of 
using a return of 7.5% (5% growth and 2.5% dividend in this particular case). Equally, Ive 
seen nothing to suggest we should be using a lower return rate as put forward by Nutmeg of 
5.74%.
There have been multiple debates about inflation, and at what percentage that should be 
set. But our usual redress has no mention of taking account of inflation, thereby reducing the 
redress. The method is set to give Mr H a monetary sum that equals the tax benefits he will 
lose in the future by virtue of Nutmegs error. What Mr H does with that sum now will enable 
him to make up any shortfall he thinks he may experience. Theres no reason to assume 
Mr H would use up his CGT allowance in that specific year so I think its reasonable for 
Nutmeg to take account of that in its calculations. However, I do think its likely that Mr Hs 
dividend allowance is used up each year. Mr H has provided us with details of his finances 
and investments and I think that its likely he receives dividend payments over and above the 
£2,000 allowance hes entitled to each year. So, I dont think it would be fair to assume that 
the dividends he receives from this investment wouldnt be subject to tax.To summarise, aside from believing that in this case Mr H is likely to not sell his investment 
for 20 years rather than 10 years, I see no reason to depart from our established approach 
for redressing his loss of tax benefits. So, I intend to direct Nutmeg to calculate redress on 
that basis. I can see its original offer was calculated in line with this approach but for the time 
the investment would be held, so I intend to direct it to do the same with a 20 year 
investment time period rather than 10.
Putting things right
I intend to direct Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited to calculate the potential loss that 
Mr H may incur due to its error which led to £20,000 being held outside of his ISA. To do so 
Nutmeg should use the following assumptions:
1. Any charges on holding the investment outside the ISA will not be significantly 
different from those that would have applied if it had been held within an ISA
2. Mr H will pay tax on the investment at the highest rate applicable to him 
3. Mr Hs tax position will remain unchanged for as long as they hold the investment
4. The tax position of the investment will remain unchanged while he holds it
5. If the investment pays dividend distributions, it will return 7.5% each year (made up 
of 5% growth and 2.5% dividend)
6. If the investment pays interest distributions, it will return 6% each year (made up of 
1% growth and 5% interest)
7. If the investment doesnt pay either interest or dividends (e.g. growth stocks), it will 
grow at 7.5% each year
8. The investment will be held for 20 years before it is sold which will trigger a CGT 
liability
Responses to the provisional decision
Both parties responded to the decision. Nutmeg provided calculations to show what the total 
compensation would be. Mr H responded and made the following comments:
- Hes explained that hed have used up his CGT allowance and has passed evidence 
of his unrealised gains showing these are far beyond the threshold. Hes asked the 
redress be calculated on the basis that his CGT allowance wouldve been used up.
- He emphasized that he has considerable savings, a healthy salary and wouldnt need 
access to his funds for at least 30 years, he has asked that the redress is changed to 
25 years rather than the 20 years set out in the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same decision set out in my provisional decision dated 13 
September 2022 for the same reasons (relevant extract above which forms part of this 
decision). I will address Mr Hs points and explain why these dont lead me to change my 
decision.
Firstly, the redress I set out assumed that Mr H would have his CGT allowance available for 
the year hed likely realise the gains. I accept that Mr H has a number of investments which 
have, at this point, made substantial gains. Hes provided evidence of significant unrealised 
gains. But these are unrealised and could change. So its too speculative to know when Mr H 
would cash in any of his investments, and hes insisted that he wouldnt need to for some 30 years. Ive explained in my decision why I thought 20 years was the fair length of time to 
assume hed hold the investments for in this particular case. But I explained its likely Mr H 
would want to cash in some investments  so I dont think its fair to assume hed realise all 
his gains over a specific period of time, and in this case its simply too far in the future to 
suggest he wouldnt have his CGT allowance available. 
We cant know what will happen in the future, and the redress set out in this complaint is 
based on assumptions. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to say that Mr H wouldnt 
have his CGT allowance available in 20 years time. Mr H has also asked for the term to be 
extended to 25 years. But as Ive mentioned above, it is too speculative to know what will 
happen over that length of time. I agree that Mr H is in a good position now and will likely not 
need to cash in his investments for some time. But I dont think its fair or reasonable to ask 
Nutmeg to go beyond 20 years when looking to reimburse him for his potential losses as its 
too speculative to know what situation Mr H would be in after that period.
As Ive not seen anything that changes my decision, I uphold this complaint. Nutmeg is able 
to assume that Mr Hs CGT allowance would be available when calculating redress but must 
assume that his dividend allowance is taken up each year and therefore any dividends would 
be taxable as the applicable rate of tax.
Putting things right
I direct Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited to calculate the potential loss that Mr H may 
incur due to its error which led to £20,000 being held outside of his ISA. To do so Nutmeg 
should use the following assumptions:
1. Any charges on holding the investment outside the ISA will not be significantly 
different from those that would have applied if it had been held within an ISA
2. Mr H will pay tax on the investment at the highest rate applicable to him 
3. Mr Hs tax position will remain unchanged for as long as they hold the investment
4. The tax position of the investment will remain unchanged while he holds it
5. If the investment pays dividend distributions, it will return 7.5% each year (made up 
of 5% growth and 2.5% dividend)
6. If the investment pays interest distributions, it will return 6% each year (made up of 
1% growth and 5% interest)
7. If the investment doesnt pay either interest or dividends (e.g. growth stocks), it will 
grow at 7.5% each year
8. The investment will be held for 20 years before it is sold which will trigger a CGT 
liability
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited must calculate and pay 
redress due to Mr H based on the assumptions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman