DRN-3093144
The complaint
H complains that Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc (EIO) has unfairly declined a claim it 
made under a charity and community connect insurance policy. 
H is a non-profit organisation. Any reference to H or EIO includes its respective agents or 
representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
H holds a policy with EIO that was taken out through a broker (Company A).
Hs property was damaged as a result of arson.
Following EIOs investigations, it accepted the claim. But it said H had underinsured 
the property. The declared value of the property for the purposes of the policy was 
£273,004. But EIO said the correct value shouldve been around £580,000. As a 
result, EIO settled the claim proportionately.
H agreed to a cash settlement in the circumstances and sought to find funds to meet 
the shortfall for any repair costs.
H brought its complaint to this service, saying it was unhappy with EIOs use of the 
average clause and that it had been left without around £15,000. It also complained 
that EIO had unfairly included a shed within its insured sum calculations. And it said it 
was misled into accepting a settlement as it wasnt clear this was inclusive of VAT.
One of our investigators looked into what happened and upheld the complaint. She 
said the definition of buildings within the policy included any outbuildings. So, she 
was persuaded EIO had acted fairly when including the shed within its calculations.
The investigator said the declared value sum used by EIO was inclusive of VAT  
which was unusual within the industry. She said the policy definition did not mention 
this inclusion, so it was unfair for EIO to include VAT within its calculation of value. 
She also said the VAT in question amounted to around £15,000 which was 
significant. And that EIOs response that there was no evidence to show H wouldnt 
incur VAT within its reinstatement was wrong, as the sum insured, and the cost of 
reinstatement were two separate and distinct concepts.
So, the investigator said EIO should recalculate the declared value of the property 
excluding VAT, then in turn the average clause in light of the revised declared value. 
EIO should then pay the difference between what was paid, and what shouldve been 
paid, with 8% interest on the additional sums from the date of initial payment until 
settlement.
H agreed, but EIO didnt. EIO said:
oH had previously agreed to its valuation at risk (VAR) figure of £579,216 
(inclusive of VAT at 20%) via its loss assessor. And it wouldve expected this 
to be challenged at the time  and because it didnt this shows H was aware 
and accepted VAT would be included to arrive at the correct VAR figure.
oH is not VAT registered so was unable to reclaim VAT from HMRC.
oIts policy definition of declared value includes the required cost of 
reinstatement of buildings. And it is general public knowledge that, when 
purchasing goods or services, that VAT will be added when arriving at their 
cost. So, it said for a policyholder to ignore VAT, would mean sums insured 
would be inadequate.
oVAT being added by insurers for the purposes of declared value/sum insured 
was common industry practice (as confirmed by its loss adjusters), especially 
in the commercial market.
oH was represented by a professional broker  so they had received the 
benefit of professional insurance advice. It said if the policyholder incurs a 
VAT liability on the reinstatement works it will pay the VAT, subject to proof of 
the liability to pay and subject to application of average which it is entitled to 
do because of the underinsurance in the declared value for buildings.
oEIO disagreed with the Services use of 8% interest and suggested a lower 
sum of no more than 5%.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Use of average clause
In this case all parties appear to be in agreement that Hs property was underinsured. 
When this happens, an insurer may choose to "apply average" to the claim under an 
"average clause". This means that where the sum insured is inadequate, the insurer can 
reduce its liability for a claim by applying a proportionate approach. EIOs policy includes a 
term that allows for this. 
So, Im satisfied EIO is able to do this in line with the terms of its policy.
Scope of VAR
H had previously raised concerns about a shed being included within EIOs calculation of 
VAR. I understand H has now accepted our investigators assessment that it was fair for EIO 
to include this as outbuildings were included within the policys definition of buildings. For 
completeness, Im in agreement with our investigator that this is the case, and Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for EIO to include the shed for this reason.
VAT within sum insured 
The crux of the complaint that is outstanding sits with whether it is reasonable to have 
expected H to include VAT within its sum insured / declared value.
Declared value is defined within the policy as:the cost of reinstatement of the buildings insured at the level of costs applying at the 
inception of the period of insurance (ignoring inflationary factors that may operate 
subsequently) plus an allowance for:
the additional costs of reinstatement
professional fees
debris removal costs
as insured under the Additional Fees and Costs extension to the Buildings section of 
this policy.
Reinstatement is defined within the policy as:
the rebuilding, replacement or repair of property damaged to a condition that is 
equivalent to, or substantially the same as, but not better or more extensive than its 
condition when new.
This means the declared value should include the cost of rebuilding, replacing, or repairing a 
property to the position it was in prior to the loss (subject to the terms included). And I would 
note that this specific policy doesnt specify that the declared value includes VAT.
EIO has argued that there was no evidence to show H wouldnt incur VAT within its 
reinstatement and therefore should be included within the sum insured. And that the cost of 
rebuilding a property necessarily includes VAT.
But not all contractors that a consumer might use, or specifically H in this case, to get the 
work done will be registered to charge VAT. In addition, while VAT is charged on new 
buildings, this is subject to many exemptions including homes and certain buildings used for 
charitable purposes. 
For these reasons, Im not in agreement in that this is the standard expectation when 
providing this figure as EIO has suggested. And looking at professional standards and 
guidance in this area, there is an expectation to make this clear. And moreover, it specifically 
hasnt included this point about VAT factoring into its calculation within its policy, as it had 
with other costs like professional fees and debris removal costs. 
So, Im not satisfied EIO has acted fairly in this case by using the VAR sum inclusive of VAT. 
And Im directing it to recalculate the declared value of the property without VAT. It should 
then reapply its average clause using this revised declared value. EIO should then pay the 
difference between what was paid, and what shouldve been paid, with 8% interest on the 
additional sums from the date of initial payment until settlement.
Interest 
EIO has disputed the figure of interest suggested by our investigator at 8% simple.
We award interest at 8% simple for a few reasons. This includes 8% being the current rate 
used on judgment debts, and because people often have to a pay higher rate than this if 
theyve borrowed money to cover a loss  for example, on a credit card.
While Ive taken on board EIOs concerns, this is the established approach of this service 
and its points havent changed my mind.
Putting things rightEIO must:
Recalculate the declared value exclusive of VAT.
Reapply the average clause relevant to the correct declared value.
Pay the difference between what should have been the correct cash settlement and 
what has already been paid.
Pay 8% interest per annum on the difference from the date of payment of the initial 
cash settlement to the date of settlement. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc must follow 
my above direction to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman