DRN-3724285
Complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against him.
Background
In November 2017, Mr P received a payment of £120, into his current account. £60 of these 
funds were immediately transferred to a third-party and the remaining £60 was sent on to 
another of Mr Ps accounts. 
Lloyds subsequently received a notification from the third-party bank responsible for sending 
the payment stating the payee of the funds had reported being a victim of fraud. Lloyds 
reviewed Mr Ps account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close Mr Ps 
account and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Mr P complained that it had been applied 
unfairly. Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. As Mr P remained dissatisfied, Mr P referred 
the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ps concerns. She didnt think that Lloyds had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr P unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr P disagreed and the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Lloyds has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr P is guilty of fraud or a financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Lloyds must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Ps account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Lloyds also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr P was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr P allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Ps complaint, I need to decide whether I think Lloyds had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Ps account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Lloyds did have enough 
to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
Lloyds received a notification from a third-party bank stating that its customer had reported 
being a victim of fraud. So Im satisfied that this was enough to raise suspicion and for 
Lloyds to investigate the matter. Mr P disputed and still disputes that the funds which 
entered his account were fraudulent. Hes said his sister wanted to sell some baby clothing 
and so he offered the use of his online selling account and the funds were from that 
purchase. He said he would have saved the proof of posting the items at the time but no 
longer has this evidence now as his online selling account doesnt have information going 
back more than two years. 
Ive thought about what Mr P has said. But even though Ive tried to give him the benefit of 
the doubt here, Im afraid that there are a number of things which dont add up and which 
mean I cant reasonably accept his version of events here. I firstly say this because Lloyds 
asked Mr P provide evidence of having sold the items he said he sold and proof of posting a 
week or so after he received the transfer in question. So while I accept that he may no 
longer have this information now, this doesnt explain why he couldnt have and didnt 
provide this in November 2017. 
Secondly, the reference used for the payment in question is tools. Mr P says he doesnt 
know why this reference was used, in these circumstances. But it looks like similar 
references were used for other payments into his account on more than one occasion. 
Thirdly, half of the funds were transferred to another of Mr Ps accounts. I know Mr P says 
that his sister told him he could keep this amount for helping to sell the items. But this seems 
to be quite a significant proportion of the funds for Mr P simply doing his sister a favour. 
Im afraid that the available evidence and Mr P being unable to provide anything 
contemporaneous, either when initially asked in November 2017 or now, to corroborate 
what, on the face of things, appears an implausible version of events means that I cant 
reasonably accept what hes said. Instead, I think its more likely than not he was complicit in 
his account receiving fraudulent funds. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Lloyds did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Mr Ps account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Mr P was complicit in this. As this is 
the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Lloyds to record a fraud prevention marker in the 
circumstances that it did. So Im not upholding this complaint and Im not requiring Lloyds to 
take any action in relation to the fraud marker. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr P  especially given what hes said about 
the effect the marker is having on him. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell appreciate why a fraud marker has been recorded against him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman