DRN-4066715
The complaint
Mr L complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund over £38,000 he lost to an 
investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr L authorised the disputed payments he made to his Binance and 
Coinjar wallets from his HSBC account (where his funds were subsequently transferred 
on to the scammers). The payments were requested using his legitimate security 
credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr L from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
Its common ground that some of the payments were considered as higher risk by 
HSBC, such as the £2,350 payment made on 12 April 2021 that triggered a written fraud 
warning, for example. An SMS message was also sent in relation to the £2,961 payment 
made on 6 July 2021 asking Mr L to confirm it was genuine, which he did. I appreciate 
Mr L considers that HSBC ought to have gone further than simply providing written fraud 
warnings and asking him to confirm the payments were genuine. But having considered 
all the disputed transactions against his account history, Im not persuaded they would 
have appeared particularly unusual or out of character, such that they would have 
reasonably required a human intervention from HSBC.
I can see, for example, that Mr L had made similar large payments from his account in 
the months prior to the scam, such as a payment for over £6,000 on 28 February 2021. I 
appreciate that the largest payment he made as part of the scam was for £7,350. But I 
dont consider this to have been significantly larger than payments made from the 
account before, such that it ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that 
he might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. There also werent any other 
significant indicators of financial harm with regards to these payments. They were not 
being made to the same payee in quick succession for example, or going to directly to a 
merchant with a live FCA warning. As a result, Im satisfied that the fraud warnings and 
SMS messages HSBC sent were proportionate to the risk presented in these 
circumstances, and I dont think it can fairly be held liable for Mr Ls loss for failing to 
intervene and question him further about the payments.
Ive also thought about whether HSBC could have done more to recover the funds after 
Mr L reported the fraud. However, in this instance we know the funds were swiftly moved 
out of the crypto wallets and on to the scammer, so there would have been no prospect 
of HSBC recovering any of the money from the beneficiary accounts Mr L paid. 
HSBC are also under no obligation to refund the faster payments to Mr L under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code only applies to 
transfers made to another person. In this instance, the payments were made to crypto 
wallets in Mr Ls own name (i.e. not to another person), so the CRM Code would not 
apply to these transactions. 
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr L, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold HSBC liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman