DRN-2359514
The complaint
Miss H complains that the car she acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Aston Martin Financial Services (BMWFS) 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
Miss H entered a HPA in December 2017 to acquire a new car. On collecting the car, she 
noticed a problem with the sport functionality and says the car was underperforming and 
making a loud noise. The car was returned to the dealer and repairs undertaken. 
In April 2018, Miss H says she needed to return the car again as several faults had 
developed. She says further issues were identified while the car was in for repair. Miss H 
says the car was returned after seven or eight weeks and she was told all the issues had 
been resolved. However, she says that further issues arose and although she reported 
problems with the centre console docking station in December 2018 the problem wasnt able 
to be replicated. In November 2019, she says further issues had developed including the car 
not starting and ongoing issues with the centre console. She says although she was told the 
faults couldnt be replicated the centre console was replaced. However, Miss H says the 
repairs didnt resolve the issues and even after further repair attempts issues remained. 
Miss H says she asked to reject the car, but this wasnt accepted.
Miss H says that while courtesy cars were provided, these were often standard cars 
compared to the premium car she was paying for under the HPA.
BMWFS says that it wasnt provided with evidence to show that the faults Miss H had 
experienced were present from the point of supply.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. On balance, she was satisfied that the faults with 
Miss Hs car were present at the time the car was supplied and so the car was not of 
satisfactory quality. She said that BMWFS had had a fair chance to repair the car but this 
hadnt resolved all the issues and so it was now fair that Miss H be allowed to reject the car 
and have her deposit refunded with interest. She said that Miss H had been able to use the 
car despite the issues and was provided with alternative transport when the car was in for 
repair. However she noted the difference between the car Miss H was provided with and the 
car she as paying for and recommended that Miss H be refunded the difference between the 
hire car cost of the courtesy car (estimated at around £300) and the monthly repayments 
Miss H was making (£1,495) for the three months when a like for like car hadnt been 
provided. She also thought that Miss H should be paid £400 for the distress and 
inconvenience she had been caused by the need to return the car so many times and the 
disappointment she would have suffered due to the issues with the car.
Miss H said she was generally in agreement with our investigators view but noted that she 
had asked to reject the car in December 2019 and raised a complaint. She said that she was 
still paying monthly repayments which wouldnt have happened had this been dealt with 
sooner.
BMWFS didnt accept our investigators view and noted the time Miss H had had the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H entered a HPA with BMWFS to acquire a car. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), BMWFS can be held liable if the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply. In this case, the car Miss H acquired was new and 
a high value car with monthly repayment amounts of £1,495. Therefore, I think it reasonable 
she would expect the car to be free from faults, including minor defects and that it would be 
sufficiently durable and so not experience faults for a reasonable period.
Unfortunately, there were issues with Miss Hs car. She noticed issues on collection of the 
car and faults were identified and repairs undertaken. As faults were identified within the first 
30 days, Miss H could have asked to reject the car at that time under the short term right to 
reject. However, I am not aware that this happened and instead she accepted repairs, which 
is also a reasonable remedy.
Unfortunately, Miss H had to return the car again in April 2018. At this time Miss H raised 
several concerns including water ingress, a noise from the centre console, issues with the 
seatbelts and an external grille falling off. While in for repair further issues were identified. I 
can see from the job card that Miss H had driven 2,100 miles at this time and that several 
repairs were undertaken. 
Although repairs took place, Miss H continued to experience issues with the car. She has 
noted other times that she has raised issues and I have seen further job cards from 
November 2019. While I note certain issues couldnt be replicated, the information provided 
suggests that issues with the centre console were ongoing despite repair attempts and that 
there were other issues with the car that hadnt been fully resolved.
Given the issues Miss H experienced and that some of these were ongoing from within the 
first six months of acquisition, I find it more likely than not that at least some of the ongoing 
issues with Miss Hs car are due to underlying problems that were either present or 
developing at acquisition. Even if the issues developed after acquisition I dont think it 
reasonable that Miss Hs new car experienced so many issues in the first few months and so 
I do not find the car was sufficiently durable. Based on this, I do not find that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Miss H needed to return the car on several occasions, and I think she has given BWMFS 
enough opportunities to repair the car. She asked to reject the car and I think this should 
have been accepted. Therefore, I find the fair resolution at this time is for Miss H to be 
allowed to reject the car and have her agreement cancelled with nothing further owing and 
her deposit refunded along with interest. 
Miss H has asked about a refund of her monthly payments, noting her previous request to 
reject the car. However, as Miss H has continued to have use of the car I do not find that a 
refund of monthly payment is required in this case. I understand that the car has been driven 
around 17,000 miles. The HPA has an annual mileage amount of 6,000 miles and I also note 
there were extended periods when the car was in for repair. So, while I appreciate that 
Miss Hs comments about reduced mileage, the information suggests she has had 
reasonable use of the car while not in for repair.
Miss H was kept mobile while her car was being repaired, however she has explained that like for like alternative transport was only provided on some occasions and for an equivalent 
of around three months, the replacement transport was of a lower standard to her car. As 
Miss H was paying a high amount for her monthly rentals, in this case it does seem fair that 
she would have either had an equivalent car while hers was in for repair or she is refunded 
part of her monthly rentals to reflect the lower standard of car. Our investigator thought the 
hire cost of the car Miss H was provided with would have been around £300 and, unless 
further evidence is provided to show a higher cost, I agree that Miss H should be refunded 
the difference between her payments of £1,495 and the £300 for three months.
Miss H was caused inconvenience due to the issues she experienced with the car. She had 
to return the car on several occasions and use a replacement car for an extended period. 
Because of this I agree that she should be paid compensation inconvenience and upset she 
was caused. I agree with our investigators recommendation of £400.
Putting things right
BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading as Aston Martin Financial Services should:
Cancel Miss Hs agreement with nothing further to pay and collect the car at no 
further cost to Miss H;
Refund Miss H's deposit (noted in the HPA as £10,000) and pay 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement;
Refund the difference between the hire car Miss H was given (estimated at £300) 
and her monthly instalment amount (£1,495.90) for three months to account for the 
time she wasn't given a similar vehicle when her car was in for repairs or off the road;
Pay £400 for the distress and inconvenience Miss H has been caused; 
If applicable, remove any adverse information from Miss H's credit file.
If BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss H how much its taken 
off. It should also give Miss H a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited trading 
as Aston Martin Financial Services should take the actions set out above to resolve this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman