DRN-2451004
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs V are unhappy Metro Bank PLC wouldnt allow Mr R to withdraw all the money 
in their account in cash. 
I note that since bringing the complaint to this service Mr R added his wife, Mrs V, to the 
account. I wanted to acknowledge this, but note that I will mostly refer to Mr R throughout my 
decision as he has been leading on this complaint. 
What happened
In March 2020 Mr R let Metro know he would be attending branch to withdraw £70,000 from 
his account. He had recently stopped using his small business account and transferred the 
funds from his Metro business account into his personal account. Mr R has explained that 
due to the unprecedented situation in 2020 following the Covid-19 outbreak, he had 
concerns over the stability of the financial system and therefore didnt want to keep his 
money in a bank account. 
A couple of days later, Mr R amended the amount he wanted and asked to withdraw 
£120,000 from the account. He was asked the purpose of the transfer on this call and 
explained he was considering travelling out of the country with Mrs V to support their 
parents. The advisor asked where specifically he was travelling to and he told him his 
parents live in Kiev and Mrs Vs parents live in Western Ukraine. 
After initially being told the money would be ready for him to collect, Metro called him back 
and explained that it wouldnt allow the withdrawal. 
Mr R complained to Metro explaining he would start legal proceedings if it didnt release the 
cash to him, and interest would be payable on the amount at 34% APR.  
Metro issued its final response explaining that it has the right to decline or refuse a request 
for a withdrawal under the terms and conditions of the account. It explained that it was doing 
so in compliance with its sanction policy. Metro told Mr R that it would happily transfer the 
money to another account or issue a cheque, and he was still able to transact on his account 
as usual, it just wouldnt agree to the large cash withdrawal. 
Mr R emphasised that he didnt have another bank account and he didnt want to open one  
the point of the withdrawal was because he didnt want his money to be in the banking 
system anymore. He said Metros refusal to allow the cash withdrawal had caused stress 
and anxiety affecting his health, sleep, appetite and relationships, and he was worried for the 
safety of his money. 
Mr R referred his complaint to this service. Prior to our investigator issuing his view, Mr R 
informed him that he didnt need to travel to the Ukraine in the end as the situation following 
the national lockdown hadnt escalated as badly as hed feared. As a result, he said he didnt 
intend to withdraw all the money from the account, but still wanted that option of course 
should things change. He explained that in April 2020 he added his wife to the account so 
the full balance would be covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), 
as he was so concerned about the security of his money. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He explained that whilst it was understandable for 
Metro to have questioned the large cash withdrawal, it was too far to deny Mr R access to 
the cash following his explanation as to why he wanted to withdraw it. He didnt think it was 
for the bank to concern itself with where the money would ultimately end up, as this wasnt 
something it could guarantee against. As result he recommended that Metro allow Mr R to 
withdraw the money in cash and pay him £150 compensation. He felt this was fair as Mr R 
hadnt needed the money in the end and had been able to use his account as normal during 
this time  and he explained he couldnt make a recommendation for something that 
couldve happened. He also didnt feel interest should be payable as had Mr R had his 
requested granted by Metro, the money wouldnt have been earning any interest at all. 
Metro agreed to the recommendations. However, Mr R remained unhappy with the level of 
compensation our investigator recommended and the lack of interest payment. He believes 
the £150 is derisory considering the distress Metro caused him and does nothing to send a 
message to banks that mistreatment of their customers will not be tolerated. He said that if 
the roles were reversed and it was him not returning money to Metro, it wouldve charged 
him interest. 
Because Mr R disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute between the parties as to the events that have taken place. Metro has 
agreed with the investigators findings that it was wrong to deny Mr Rs request to withdraw 
his funds. In this decision, I need only address the issue of how it would be fair and 
reasonable to settle this complaint in terms of compensation for this error. Having done so, 
my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator 
previously set out and for much the same reasons.
I understand Metros failure to allow the cash withdrawal caused Mr R unnecessary worry 
and distress, at what was already a significantly unsettling time for everyone. Its clear he 
was concerned enough about the impact of the pandemic to want to withdraw all his money, 
and when he couldnt do this, he took steps to add Mrs V to the account so the money would 
be protected. I think the £150 recommended by our investigator is fair for this worry and 
upset. That is not to down play the worry Mr R felt over the safety of his money of course. 
But ultimately, I have to take into account that he didnt need this money in the end and his 
account remained fully functional otherwise  meaning there was no financial detriment 
caused by Metros error. And so, the impact of Metros actions was limited to the worry 
caused and the frustration Mr R felt in being continuously denied access to the cash 
withdrawal. 
I understand Mr R would like Metro to pay interest on the money, as he believes had the 
tables been turned, Metro wouldve charged him interest. For me to direct Metro to award 
interest in these circumstances would be punitive and that isnt what this service is set up to 
do. Instead we recommend awards to reflect any financial loss and trouble and upset caused 
by an error. Mr Rs intention was to remove the money from his account in cash and keep it 
out of the banking system. Therefore, he wouldnt have been earning any interest on the 
money, and in addition he didnt end up needing the money for anything in particular, so has suffered no financial loss as a result of Metros actions. It would therefore not be appropriate 
for me to ask Metro to pay interest. 
Overall, I can appreciate why Mr R feels so strongly about Metros actions in denying him 
access to his money. This undoubtably caused him unnecessary stress for the period of time 
he wanted his money in cash. But I feel the £150 is fair for this. As Mr R has said he no 
longer wishes to withdraw the full balance of his account at this time, I have no need to make 
a direction on this.  
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr R and Mrs Vs complaint against Metro Bank PLC and 
ask it to pay them £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman