DRN-3107958
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs H complain HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) have unfairly charged an early 
repayment charge when they sold their property and moved overseas.
What happened
Mr H and Mrs H took out two ten-year fixed interest rate mortgage products with HSBC on 
their UK property, the first in 2017 and a separate home improvement loan in 2018. Mr H 
and Mrs H says as Australian nationals they intended at some point to move back to 
Australia but took out the fixed interest rate products on the understanding they could 
transfer this to another property, without incurring any early repayment charge (ERC). Mr H 
and Mrs H says when they approached HSBC about their move, they were informed 
because they were moving overseas, the mortgage wasnt portable and they would be liable 
for the ERCs, which HSBC subsequently charged in February 2021 costing approximately 
£19500. Mr H and Mrs H says there is nothing in their mortgage terms and conditions to 
suggest they couldnt port their existing mortgage interest rate product to an overseas 
property. 
Mr H and Mrs H want HSBC to waive any ERCS. 
HSBC says Mr H and Mrs Hs mortgage and its fixed interest rate product cannot be moved 
to its Australian business, as this is a separate entity and the ERCs are payable in line with 
the terms and condition of the mortgage. 
Mr H and Mrs H werent happy with HSBCs response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says a UK mortgage product cannot be used to finance an overseas property as 
the security taken wouldnt have met HSBCs terms and conditions. The investigator felt 
HSBC had acted correctly when applying the ERCs when Mr H and Mrs H sold their UK 
property. 
Mr H and Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr H and Mrs H to have been informed by 
HSBC they would have to pay a sizeable ERC when they sold their UK property, especially 
given they took the mortgage products on the basis they were portable.
Mr H has made a number of separate points regarding this complaint, but I wont be 
commenting on every point he has made as I dont feel its necessary in order to come a full 
and impartial decision here. Thats not to say I havent considered everything hes said  I 
have. I should say Mr H and Mrs H arent disputing the amount of the ERC calculated by 
HSBC, only that it shouldnt be charged at all in their case. 
The first thing to say here is the investigator has commented on the separation of HSBCs 
UK retail banking  business in 2018 and although that may be the case, that isnt the central 
issue Mr H and Mrs H are referring to, as they make the point their mortgage is subject to 
the terms and conditions they originally entered into. 
Its worth saying, porting a mortgage is when a lender agrees to allow their customers to 
transfer a mortgage product from one property to another, in most cases when moving 
home, without any ERCs payable.  Here, the mortgage taken in 2017, where the majority of 
the ERC is payable, was taken out without receiving any advice from HSBC, this seems to 
have been conducted by a broker, appointed by Mr H and Mrs H. I havent been provided 
with any evidence to show the second home improvement loan taken in 2018 was under 
advice form HSBC either. So, I cant say that HSBC gave any advice to Mr H and Mrs H 
prior to them taking out the two, ten-year fixed interest rate mortgage products with them.
What is important is whether HSBC at the time they provided the mortgages to Mr H and Mrs 
H had agreed that the fixed interest rate products were portable to a property they proposed 
to buy overseas. Mr H and Mrs H make the point there is nothing in the mortgage terms and 
conditions that state this isnt possible, after all HSBC are a bank with global reach, which is 
why they chose them. 
While I understand the points Mr H and Mrs H make here, its fair to say although HSBC are 
a bank with international presence, thats not to say it has to provide all of its products and 
services in every country where it is represented, under the same terms and conditions. I 
have read the terms and conditions of the original mortgage offer and it states the following :
If you move house and buy another house during the fixed rate period we may agree to lend 
you up to the same amount as the balance of your existing loan at the same fixed rate for 
the remainder of the fixed rate period, provided that you meet the conditions stated in the 
HSBC Mortgage Loan Terms.
So here, HSBC are saying they may agree to lend when moving to a new house provided 
their terms and conditions are met. Mr H and Mrs H have provided this service with an 
extract of their mortgage terms and conditions and Under Section 16, Moving property, it 
says :
 If you move property during the term we may agree to lend the same amount as the 
balance of the mortgage debt at the same interest rate over the same duration (or, where the 
loan is in more than one part, interest rates) then remaining provided that:
 we are satisfied with your credit history;
 we are satisfied the new property being offered as security is acceptable to us (a new 
legal charge may be required in some cases) ;
 we are satisfied the new lending meets our standard lending policy and assessment 
criteria at the relevant time; 
So, although I understand the point Mr H makes, that there is no direct mention the 
mortgage isnt portable to another property overseas, neither does is state it can be. Here it 
says, HSBC may lend provided the new property offered as security is acceptable to them and meets their standard lending policy and criteria at the relevant time  but it didnt. HSBC 
told Mr H and Mrs H in their final response letter this didnt meet their criteria as you are 
unable to transfer the rate/mortgage over to HSBC Australia, which is a separate entity.
With this in mind, I am satisfied even though the mortgages Mr H and Mrs H took out in 2017 
and 2018 did have a porting option, thats not to say HSBC had to agree to transfer (port) the 
mortgage to any property without first properly assessing a full mortgage application and 
importantly here,  accepting the property as acceptable security. HSBC says after 
considering Mr H and Mrs Hs request they were unable to transfer the mortgage to an 
Australian property and I cant tell them they must. 
While Mr H and Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
HSBC here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman