DRN-2752172
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance, 
acted when he asked for assistance with payments on his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
On 21 August 2018, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Close Brothers. The agreement was for £10,532.60 over 48 months; with 47 monthly 
payments of £195.79 and a final payment of £4,264.54.
Mr S emailed Close Brothers on 18 April 2020 to let them know he wouldnt be able to make 
the payment due on 21 May 2020 - he was out of work due to being furloughed because of 
COVID-19 and was self-employed with no income coming in at the moment. And he asked 
for a two-month payment holiday, with the missed payments being added to the end of the 
term of the agreement.
In response, on the same day, Close Brothers told him they were receiving a higher number 
of emails than usual, and it was taking them longer than normal to respond. Mr S chased 
them for a response on 12 May 2020, and in reply Close Brothers said it could take them up 
to five working days to respond. Mr S contacted them again on 19 May 2020, telling them 
that he was cancelling his direct debit as he couldnt afford to make the next payment.
On 27 May 2020, Close Brothers contacted Mr S to say they werent able to call him as they 
didnt have a valid mobile number for him. And they asked Mr S to contact them, which he 
did the same day. In this call Mr S complained about the lack of response to his emails. He 
also again asked for a payment holiday, with the missed payments added to the end of the 
term. Close Brothers agreed to the payment holiday but said they couldnt agree to any 
extension of the term. 
In response to Mr Ss complaint, Close Brothers apologised for the lack of contact. They also 
explained that any payment holiday would result in an increase in the monthly payments, 
and the term would remain the same. Close Brothers also granted Mr S a payment holiday 
until October 2020. Mr S was unhappy with Close Brothers response, and he brought his 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Close Brothers were also affected by the national lockdown, which 
affected their ability to provide their usual service. And this impacted the speed in which they 
were able to respond to customer questions. While he recognised that this wouldve been 
frustrating for Mr S, because the delays were caused by exceptional and unforeseen 
circumstances, he thought the apology they provided was sufficient.
The investigator also said that Close Brothers also offered a payment holiday to Mr S in line 
with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines in place at the time. And, in doing so, 
Mr Ss credit history wasnt affected  the payments have been recorded as being made for 
the duration of the payment holiday. 
He also said that Close Brothers had given Mr S three payment options, two of which 
included an extension on the original term by 3-months. And these all included the continued 
reporting of Mr Ss account as being up to date, and no additional interest or fees being 
charged. The investigator thought this was fair.
So the investigator thought Close Brothers had acted reasonably in all of the circumstances, 
and he didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he didnt think Close Brothers had been fair, and their response 
system that was specifically set up to deal with covid issues  failed dramatically. He didnt 
think an apology was sufficient for this. And he also said that he couldnt resume payments 
as he was currently out of work, but he will do as soon as hes able to. And he would like 
Close Brothers to add all of the missed months to the end of the term.
Because Mr S didnt agree with the investigator, this has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, 
its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Before I address the specifics of Mr Ss complaint, I think it would be useful to summarise 
the FCAs guidance on the financial impact of COVID-19 on customers and their ability to 
make payments on regulated motor finance agreements. The FCA expected all firms to 
provide support for customers experiencing temporary financial difficulties as a result of 
COVID-19 related issues.
On 24 April 2020, the FCA issued guidance saying that firms could grant a payment holiday 
(referred to as a payment deferral) for up to 3-months. And on 17 July 2020 the FCA issued 
further guidance saying, if a customer was unable to resume full payments after an initial 
payment deferral, a further payment deferral period of up to 3-months should be offered.
Its not disputed that Mr S contacted Close Brothers about his financial situation, and that 
there was a delay in them responding to him. I appreciate Close Brothers were affected by 
the national lockdown, and that this affected their ability to respond to customer contacts as 
quickly as they normally would. But their email of 12 May 2020 explained that it would take 
them five working days to respond to Mr S. And they didnt. 
So Im satisfied that, even given the unforeseen and exceptional circumstances Close 
Brothers were experiencing, the delay in responding to Mr S was unreasonable. This was 
frustrating for Mr S but, because he cancelled his direct debit and no payments were taken, 
he didnt suffer any financial impact as a result. So Im also satisfied that Close Brothers 
apology was sufficient in the circumstances, and I wont be asking them to do anything more.Once Mr S had spoken to Close Brothers, and hed explained his situation, they arranged for 
a 3-month payment deferral in line with the FCA guidelines. And they extended this by a 
further 3-months as Mr S wasnt able to resume payments at the time. Close Brothers also 
followed the FCA guidance relating to interest and charges, and by how this was reported to 
the credit reference agencies. Once the payment deferral period had ended, Close Brothers 
gave Mr S some options as to how he could proceed with payments on his agreement. In 
doing this, Im satisfied that Close Brothers acted reasonably.
But Mr S wasnt able to resume payments at the end of the second 3-month deferral period. 
So I appreciate why he felt Close Brothers option were unhelpful in the circumstances. Mr S 
wanted to continue to not make payments until such time as he was able to, and then have 
all of the missed payments added to the end of the term of his agreement.
Where a customer is unable to maintain payments, the FCA requires financial businesses to 
treat them with forbearance and due consideration. And Id expect Close Brothers to do 
this. But it doesnt mean they should automatically add all missed payments to the end of the 
term. And its not my role to tell Close Brothers what terms they must accept. Instead Id 
expect them to treat Mr S sympathetically and work with him to reach a mutual agreement 
on how hell make payments going forward.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint about Close Brothers Limited 
trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman