DRN-3497013
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, declined their 
application for a further advance on their mortgage. They also feel that Halifax handled the 
application, and the communication of the result, badly.
What happened
In August 2021, Mr and Mrs D applied for a further advance on their existing mortgage 
with Halifax. They dealt with two different mortgage advisors, and were asked to provide 
a range of evidence for the lending assessment. Ultimately, in December 2021, Halifax 
emailed Mr and Mrs D to let them know that they could not approve any further lending, 
but would reconsider if their income increased. Mr and Mrs D complained about the 
outcome of the application and what they considered to be the poorly handled process. 
Halifax rejected their complaint, so they came to this Service.
Having considered all the evidence, the investigator thought that Halifax hadnt done anyting 
wrong in how it handled this application for the further advance, so didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagree, although havent explained why, and have asked an 
ombudsman to look at their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Ill look first at the process that went on between August and December 2021. Mr and Mrs D 
feel that Halifax dragged its feet and that had their application been handled more 
promptly, it would have been successful.
I accept that four months is a relatively long time for an application for a further advance to 
be in train. But actually that was because there were various complications and anomalies 
that had to be worked through. Mr Ds income had been a little bit reduced by the Covid-19 
pandemic restrictions, so additional pay slips were needed to show what he would typically 
earn in normal times. Pension projections also had to be obtained, as the term of the 
proposed borrowing extended beyond Mr and Mrs Ds retirement age, so that income had to 
be checked. There is a second charge on the property in question as a result of a 
government backed buying scheme. So additional information about that had to be sought 
from the relevant third party. And finally, Mrs D was made redundant during the application, 
which obviously impacted on the lending assessment.
So all in all, I dont think its a surprise that the application process was protracted. And from 
looking at the contact notes, I dont find any evidence of Halifax causing any notable delays.
I can imagine how disappointing it must have been for Mr and Mrs D when it was confirmed 
that Halifax wouldnt approve their application. But Halifax explained why, and how that 
decision was in line with its lending criteria. Each mortgage lender sets its own lending 
criteria, and changes them from time to time. That is normal and lenders are allowed to do 
so, provided they act fairly and reasonably and exercise discretion in line with the rules. Mr 
and Mrs D comment that their financial position is better now than when the original 
mortgage was approved, so they dont understand why their application was unsuccessful. 
But that was some time ago. Not only are lenders allowed to change their criteria and how 
they assess applications, they are in fact required to do so by the regulator from time to time. 
The regulatory picture has changed a lot since Mr and Mrs Ds original mortgage was 
approved, so it isnt surprising that the assessments and lending criteria have too. That 
doesnt mean Halifax has done anything wrong in declining this application  its criteria 
werent met and and the risk was one it wasnt reasonably willing to take on this occasion.
Finally, Mr and Mrs D are unhappy with how Halifax communicated the outcome to them, 
which was by email. I can see from Halifaxs contact notes that the mortgage advisor did try 
to call, but couldnt get hold of them, and wanted them to know the outcome as soon as 
possible. So I dont think it was wrong of her to send an email, and note that she invited Mr 
and Mrs D to call her on her mobile to discuss the situation.
So although this application was drawn out, and the final result was a disappointment for Mr 
and Mrs D, I dont think that was because of any significant mistakes by Halifax. So it follows 
that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Halifax doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 October 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman