DRN-4356210
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the price of his renewal premium quoted by Makerstudy 
Insurance Company Limited under his quad bike and motorbike insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had insured his quad and motorbikes with Markerstudys broker for many years, at 
least from 2016, under a type of multi-vehicle policy. In October 2022 he insured two 
motorbikes and quad bike for about £350 per year and he was very happy with that premium 
price. 
Sadly, Mr S was involved in an accident also in October 2022. The next quote he received in 
November 2022 was just over £450 when at this time it was unknown whether the motorbike 
in the accident would be written off and Mr S was also happy with that. 
Then the motorbike involved in the accident was deemed a total loss. So, Mr S bought 
another motorbike which he asked the broker to insure with his other vehicles. This time the 
quote generated was nearly £1,900. He S said he was very shocked at the substantial 
increase. So, he didnt accept that quote and found a better one elsewhere. 
Mr S complained to the broker about the high premium quote as he felt he had been singled 
out and treated unfairly. And then he brought his complaint to us. It took some time to ensure 
it was Markerstudy who should respond to Mr S complaint, which delayed matters. Neither 
the broker nor Markerstudy believed they had done anything wrong in calculating the quote 
to Mr S. The investigator also was of that same view. As Mr S didnt agree his complaint has 
been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. And I do appreciate 
and understand Mr S will be disappointed with my decision.
As the investigator told Mr S, this service isnt the regulator who monitors premium prices for 
insurance policies. The regulator is the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) instead. However, 
this can service can check and make sure that Mr S wasnt singled out and treated unfairly in 
comparison to anyone else in similar circumstances.
How we do this, is to check the underwriting criteria and guide, which is used by the 
underwriters in setting the premium. Unfortunately, we cant share these guides or criteria 
with Mr S as this information is commercially sensitive to each insurer and we also publish 
our decisions in the public domain. 
As the investigator explained in his view, both he and now I have checked the calculations, 
guides, and criteria in detail both from Markerstudy and indeed what the broker used also. 
There is no deviation away from the pricing guides, what needs to be taken into account and 
how that affected the premium price in Mr S case. So, this shows me he wasnt singled out 
or treated differently to anyone else in his circumstances. The main reason for the 
substantial increase was the rating given to his new motorbike. This also means anyone else 
who had bought that type of motorbike at the time would have been treated the same as Mr 
S in calculating the premium.
 
Insurers are commercial enterprises and the FCA permits them to decide what issues they 
want to insure and what they dont want to insure. The FCA also permits them to rate certain 
issues as being more expensive or less expensive to insure. The FCA demands insurers 
dont however single out individual consumers and treat them any differently to any other 
consumer in the same circumstances, hence the underwriting guides and criteria being used 
to generate any premium. That means there is there nothing in the information sent to us by 
Markerstudy or its broker which broke any of the FCAs rules in calculating the amount of 
premium it wished to charge Mr S after he bought his new motorbike. 
Further I dont consider its at all relevant what might have happened in 2016. Premiums 
rates and their criteria are adjusted all the time as market forces change all the time too. So, 
what happed back in 2016 wouldnt have any relevance to what happened in 2022 
Therefore, in conclusion, I dont consider Markerstudy did anything wrong. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman