DRN-4028223
The complaint
Mr S complains that Retail Money Market Ltd trading as RateSetter irresponsibly gave him a 
peer-to-peer loan he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In May 2018, Mr S applied for a peer-to-peer loan with RateSetter. His application was 
approved, and he was given a loan of £6,000. Mr S was required to pay 36 repayments of 
£207.67.
In March 2022, Mr S complained to RateSetter to say he shouldnt have been given the loan. 
He said that adequate affordability checks werent completed and if they were it would have 
been clear he didnt have enough disposable income to repay the borrowing. Further, he 
said he had a gambling problem which would have been evident had RateSetter reviewed 
his bank statements before lending. 
RateSetter didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had completed appropriate checks which 
showed that the loan was likely to be affordable to Mr S. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought RateSetter ought 
to have completed more thorough checks before lending to Mr S. She said this ought to 
have included asking Mr S about his committed monthly expenditure. However, she didnt 
think this further level of checks would have revealed any affordability concerns and 
therefore didnt think RateSetter had made an unfair lending decision. 
Mr S disagreed. He provided a detailed breakdown of his monthly expenditure which he said 
demonstrated that prior to taking out the loan he was spending more than he was earning. 
He said his income was around £200 less per month than the figure RateSetter had used 
and he considered RateSetter should have reviewed his bank statements prior to lending to 
him. 
The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The rules and guidance for lenders is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (known as 
CONC) within the regulators handbook of rules and guidance. Ive had these rules and 
guidance in mind when deciding whether RateSetter acted fairly and reasonably. 
Before approving the loan, RateSetter were required to ensure that the borrowing was 
affordable and sustainable for Mr S. There isnt a set list of checks that it had to complete, 
instead it was required to ensure that any checks it did were proportionate in the 
circumstances. What is considered proportionate will vary as there isnt a one-size-fits-all 
approach. In deciding what is proportionate, RateSetter needed to consider things such as 
(but not limited to): The amount borrowed, the size of the regular payments, the cost of the 
credit, the term, the total repayable and the consumers specific circumstances. 
As part of the application, Mr S declared an annual income of £61,000 and a monthly income 
of around £3,600. RateSetter says it verified this information using a credit reference 
agency. RateSetter also completed a credit check which revealed no previous difficulty in 
repaying credit. It showed that Mr S had a mortgage commitment of £873 per month and 
unsecured loan balances totalling around £5,500 (with monthly repayments of around £600). 
Mr S also held five current accounts, three of which were overdrawn to a total of around 
£3,800.
RateSetter could therefore see that Mr S had around £9,300 in unsecured debt in addition to 
his mortgage. Mr S had declared on his application that the purpose of the RateSetter loan 
was for debt consolidation, so it would be reasonable for RateSetter to assume this is what 
Mr S would use the loan proceeds for. This means when deciding what proportionate 
affordability checks ought to be, RateSetter was entitled to conclude that its loan was 
unlikely to increase Mr S overall unsecured indebtedness.
With this in mind, Mr S monthly outgoings for credit commitments, including the RateSetter 
loan, was going to be around £1,700 (reducing to around £1,500 within two months when 
two previous loans were due to be repaid in full). This would have left Mr S with around 
£1,900, rising to around £2,100 per month, for his other committed expenditure based on the 
income he had declared. I think it's arguable that this would have been sufficient to 
demonstrate the lending was likely to be affordable to Mr S. However, given that Mr S had 
been overdrawn for some time across three current accounts, and notwithstanding that he 
had indicated the loan was for debt consolidation, I think it would have been proportionate 
for RateSetter to have done more before lending. 
Mr S says that RateSetter ought to have reviewed his bank statements, but I dont agree. 
I think in the circumstances here, it would have been sufficient for RateSetter to have asked 
Mr S about his committed expenditure instead. I say this because Mr S had a significantly 
above average income, had no evidence of current or historic financial difficulty on his credit 
file and had a relatively modest amount of unsecured debt compared to his income. Further, 
the amount he was seeking to borrow wasnt significant when taking into consideration his 
income and existing credit commitments. It was only the make-up of his existing unsecured 
debt and the request for a consolidation loan that I think warranted some further probing of 
Mr S expenditure, but not to the level he has suggested. 
Mr S has provided a breakdown of his expenditure which he says demonstrates he was 
spending more than he was earning. However, parts of his expenditure summary couldnt 
reasonably be considered essential living expenses (such as holidays) and other expenses 
he has declared dont match up with the information contained in his bank statements (such 
as the amount spent on food). Taking into consideration what is evident from the bank 
statements, it appears Mr S had sufficient disposable income, after taking into account just 
his essential expenditure and credit commitments to comfortably meet the RateSetter loan 
repayments (even if I use Mr S figure for monthly food spend of). 
Mr S says his income was £200 lower than the figure RateSetter relied on. However, even if 
RateSetter had used the lower income figure, it appears Mr S would still have sufficient 
disposable income to service his credit commitments, the RateSetter loan and his essential 
living expenses.
Mr S says he had a gambling problem at the time and I think that is evident from the 
statements hes provided. However, I dont think this is something RateSetter knew about or 
would reasonably have found out about either. This is because I dont think RateSetter was required to check bank statements prior to lending to him, nor do I think it would have been 
proportionate or reasonable for them to have asked for this evidence in these specific 
circumstances.   
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman