DRN-3574768
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to them alongside a mortgage in 1990. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs G had a joint mortgage, but the PPI policy was set up to cover only Mr G. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. As Mr and Mrs G did not agree 
with our adjudicator, the matter was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
Mr and Mrs G told us that PPI was sold to them in a face to face meeting. I cant know what 
was said at that meeting. So to help me decide whats most likely to have happened, Ive 
looked at what Mr and Mrs G remember about it. Ive also considered some limited 
information Santander provided to us. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs G would have known the PPI policy 
was optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. What I mean by that is 
whether it was presented to them as though they had to take the policy out or their mortgage 
wouldnt be agreed. 
Looking at what Mr and Mrs G told us in their PPI questionnaire, it looks as though 
Santander presented the PPI as a cheap policy that would give them peace of mind if Mr G 
was out of work. I know that in response to our adjudicator, Mr and Mrs G said they were 
told the policy was essential to their mortgage. But they also said they made their decision to 
take PPI based on their fears about Mr Gs job as well. From the information Ive seen, it 
doesnt look as though Santander misled them into thinking they wouldnt get their mortgage 
unless they agreed to the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs G also told us that they felt pressured by Santander and the insurer after the PPI 
was sold because the cost of the premiums was increasing. Im sorry to see that Mr and Mrs 
G felt pressured in that way. But in the context of whether PPI was mis-sold, I have to look at 
what happened at the point of sale. So I dont think I can reasonably say Mr and Mrs G were 
pressured by Santander in the meeting when the cover was sold. 
Santander advised Mr and Mrs G to take the PPI out, so it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the cover was suitable for their needs. To help me decide whether the cover was 
suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the cover. Ive also given careful thought 
to what Mr and Mrs G told us about their personal circumstances at the relevant time. 
I can see that if Mr and Mrs G had to make a claim on the policy, their mortgage repayments 
would have been covered for up to three years if Mr G was off sick. Theyd have been 
covered for up to 12 months if Mr G was made redundant. I can see that Mr and Mrs G told 
us Mr G didnt have a lot of sick pay or redundancy pay. Mr G told us Mrs Gs salary wouldnt 
have been enough to cover the mortgage if he wasnt working. And they didnt have any 
other means with which to meet their mortgage repayments if he was out of work. In those 
circumstances, I can see how PPI could have been useful if Mr G was out of work. 
Ive next considered whether Mr and Mrs G would have been affected by any of the policys 
exclusions. I understand Mr G was in good health at the point the policy was sold. So I dont 
think any of the exclusions about medical conditions would have stopped him from being 
able to claim. And I havent seen anything unusual about their circumstances that would 
have stopped Mr and Mrs G from being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. 
I know Mr and Mrs G told us the cover was expensive and they had to cancel the policy in 
1997 because it was too much. But it looks as though when they took the policy out, the cost 
of the cover was £20 per month. I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable at 
that time. 
I must stress that the borrowing was secured on Mr and Mrs Gs home, so the 
consequences could have been severe if Mr G was out of work and they couldnt meet their 
repayments. In those circumstances and for the reasons set out above, Im satisfied 
Santanders recommendation to take the PPI out was suitable. 
Even so, Santander still had to give Mr and Mrs G enough information about the cover so 
they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. That information 
had to be clear, fair and not misleading. Mr and Mrs G told us that Santander didnt set the 
costs and benefits out clearly. I accept its possible that Santander didnt tell Mr and Mrs G 
everything it should have done about the policy. But Ive set out above how I think the policy 
could have been helpful if Mr G was out of work. So I dont think more or better information 
about the cover would have caused them to act differently. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs G. But after considering the matter at some length, I 
cant reasonably find PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Santander UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman