DRN-3868518
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Aldermore Bank Plc provided incorrect advice and poor 
customer service when they redeemed their mortgage with it.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K held a residential mortgage with Aldermore Bank until July 2022 when it was 
redeemed. 
Mr K made a payment of £90 to Aldermore Bank when his mortgage was redeemed. This 
was a fee set out in the redemption statement as a mortgage exit fee. He believed this 
payment would allow the mortgage to be discharged and the property deeds provided to 
him.
To understand the redemption process, Mr K made a number of phone calls to Aldermore 
Bank. He was given conflicting information with Aldermore Bank saying a D1 form was 
required for it to be able to process the discharge. It later turned out this was incorrect.
Mr K complained that he spent time and money, making phone calls to Aldermore Bank to 
try and get his mortgage discharged as well as paying the £90 fee. He didnt think it was fair 
that he paid this fee when hes also needed to instruct a solicitor to assist with the discharge 
of the mortgage. He asked that Aldermore Bank refund this fee and compensate him for his 
time spent trying to resolve this.
Aldermore Bank looked at Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and said it was sorry for the 
inconvenience caused when it failed to give him the correct advice on the process when he 
called previously. It said the discharge fee it charged would always have been charged, 
whether Mr and Mrs K used a solicitor to assist with the redemption process or not. Because 
of this, it didnt think it was fair to refund the fee. But it recognised that its service fell below 
the standards it expected and made a payment of £100 to Mr and Mrs K for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator looked at Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and said that she didnt think Aldermore 
Bank needed to do anything else. She agreed it had provided incorrect information about the 
form needed for the mortgage to be discharged. And she felt the information provided with 
the mortgage did indicate this could be redeemed without the need to use a solicitor, which 
may have caused confusion. But she thought Mr and Mrs K would have always needed to 
pay the mortgage exit fee as it was set out as a fee payable on their redemption statement 
and theyd need to pay solicitors fees too if used. So it was fair that Aldermore Bank 
charged this. 
Overall, when considering the impact of the errors and the £100 paid, she thought Aldermore 
Bank had offered a fair settlement and she didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs K disagreed. They still believed it was fair for Aldermore Bank to refund the £90 
fee charged and they asked that the case be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why.
It isnt disputed that Aldermore Bank failed to give the correct information to Mr and Mrs K 
about the redemption process and what was required. What is disputed still is whether 
Aldermore Bank acted fairly charging Mr and Mrs K the mortgage exit fee. 
The mortgage redemption statement provided to Mr and Mrs K detailed a mortgage exit fee 
of £90 as a fee payable when their mortgage was redeemed. This fee is also detailed in the 
mortgage tariff and charges documents where it also says the following:
You may be charged a separate fee by your solicitor or licensed or qualified conveyancer 
for their work relating to the redemption of the mortgage and discharge of the security.
So I think it is fair to say the £90 mortgage exit fee was set out in the information provided to 
Mr and Mrs K and they knew this would need to be paid. I think it also demonstrates that if 
there is any work required by a solicitor to complete the redemption, that this charge would 
stand as a separate charge. 
Had Mr and Mrs K been informed correctly of the process when they first called Aldermore 
Bank, they would have needed to pay the mortgage exit fee. But theyd have been told 
sooner of the need to use a solicitor and have been aware of having to pay for this service. 
The incorrect information led them to believe that the £90 fee was all theyd need to pay and 
when they realised this was wrong, they have been understandably disappointed. Theyve 
questioned why they still need to pay the mortgage exit fee when Aldermore Bank isnt able 
to discharge the mortgage with the fee alone.
I understand the frustration Mr and Mrs K have faced in trying to understand what they 
needed to do to have their mortgage discharged and why they dont think its fair to pay the 
exit fee. But I think its fair this is paid as it is a cost set out in the redemption statement as 
something needing to be paid as part of the redemption process. 
There has been inconvenience and distress caused with the mis-information provided but I 
think Aldermore Bank has fairly compensated Mr and Mrs K for this when making the 
payment of £100 to them in August and I dont think it needs to increase this or refund the 
mortgage exit fee.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman