DRN-4038423
The complaint
Mr T complains that Canada Life Limited unfairly declined his group income protection claim. 
What happened
As both parties are aware of happened Ill only be summarising events in brief. 
Mr T has access to a group income protection policy through his employer. He made a claim 
on that policy after becoming absent from work with ill health. But Canada Life declined it 
and said he wasnt eligible for cover. 
Canada Life explained the policyholder, Mr Ts employer, had told it Mr T wasnt living in the 
UK and had been working outside of it on a permanent basis since 2020  without 
permission to undertake duties from abroad and having been told his benefits may be 
affected. Canada Life said there was no cover under the policy for such circumstances, and 
it further explained that even if prior approval had been sought for them cover wouldnt have 
been agreed.
Unhappy, Mr T complained and referred his complaint to this service when Canada Life 
maintained its position. Mr T said he was a UK resident. He set out his reasons for remaining 
outside of the UK. And he explained hed asked for investigations to be halted until a 
disciplinary he was going through with his employer had ceased. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. They thought Canada Life had declined the 
claim fairly and in line with the policy terms. Mr T disagreed with that however and reiterated 
his position. He also said Canada Life had acted solely on the assertions of his employer 
and he asked to appeal the investigators findings. So, the matter was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator before me, for largely the 
same reasons and will explain why:
Canada Life has a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, and to not 
reject them unreasonably. 
Mr T has detailed his reasons for remaining outside of the UK (namely he says he 
chose to stay abroad following a holiday to care for his father). Though I can 
empathise with Mr Ts position, I cant see where in the group policy cover would be 
available for his circumstances. 
The policys terms and conditions set out that Cover will be maintained for members 
whilst they are outside the UK on holiday or travelling in connection with their 
business other than secondment.... And as Canada Life has rightly explained, 
neither of those situations applied to Mr T. 
The terms and conditions also explain that the policyholder can request cover for 
individuals who are working outside the UK on a permanent basis, or on secondment 
in a country outside the selected territories. But again, neither of those situations 
applied to Mr T who had chosen to continue working abroad without his employers 
permission to do so. 
Even if prior approval for cover outside the UK had been sought for Mr T, Canada 
Life has already confirmed it wouldnt have agreed to provide it. It says it would have 
reached that decision based on the unstructured nature of Mr Ts circumstances  
namely because of the lack of agreement between Mr T and his employer. 
While I appreciate the arguments Mr T has put forward in relation to his position on 
being a UK resident, I dont think it was unreasonable of Canada Life to find that the 
group policy simply did not cover his circumstances. 
Mr T may have wanted investigations paused until such a time that the outcome of 
his disciplinary was known, but I dont think it was unreasonable of Canada Life to 
determine this claim based on the information it had at the time. 
Mr T may be further disappointed by the above, but in al the circumstances Im satisfied 
Canada Life declined this claim both fairly and reasonably. I hope Mr T will understand why 
Ill not be interfering with its position on this occasion. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman