DRN-4196056
The complaint
Miss G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In March 2021 Miss G applied for a credit card with Capital One. Capital One approved the 
application and gave Miss G a card with an initial credit limit of £200. The credit limit was 
increased to £450 in December 2021.
Miss G complained that Capital One lent to her irresponsibly.
Capital One didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks 
before lending to Miss G.
Miss G remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Capital One had completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks before lending to Miss G and that the lending decision 
was fair.
Miss G didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Miss Gs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, Capital One needed to complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to ensure that Miss G could sustainably repay what was being lent to her. Theres no 
set list of checks that a lender has to carry out. But lenders are required to have regard to 
things like the amount being lent, the total amount repayable, the monthly repayment and 
the consumers individual circumstances when deciding whats reasonable and 
proportionate.
Ive looked at the checks Capital One completed before lending to Miss G. Miss G declared 
annual income of £30,000 when she applied for the credit card. Capital One carried out a 
credit search and took into account Miss Gs expenditure on thigs like housing, food and 
utility bills. Using the information it had gathered, Capital One carried out an affordability 
assessment and found the credit card to be affordable for Miss G.
Capital One carried out similar checks before it increased the credit limit in December 2021.
Based on what Ive seen, I think the checks carried out by Capital One were reasonable and 
proportionate. There was nothing in the information gathered from the checks which 
wouldve given Capital One cause for concern, or which meant that further checks shouldve 
been carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decisions were fair. Ive reviewed the 
information gathered from the checks which were carried out at the account opening stage 
and at the credit limit increase stage. Theres isnt anything to suggest that Miss G was 
struggling to re[pay her debts. Or that she was overly reliant on credit, or that she was 
unlikely to be able to relay the credit sustainably. 
Taking everything into account, I think the lending decisions were fair. For the reasons Ive 
given I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 July 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman