DRN-4255819
The complaint
Mr T complains that QIC Europe Ltd unfairly declined his claim on his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr T was driving along a small country lane following other cars. When driving down the lane 
Mr T said the lane went around a bend and there was then a ford in the road. Mr T said the 
car in front drove through the ford and, as it was just after the bend, he also drove through it 
without having much time to think. Mr T said after driving through the ford his car stopped 
and so he had it inspected by a garage. 
The garage said the car had what is known as hydro-lock, and this meant he needed a new 
engine. Because of this Mr T claimed on his policy for the accidental damage to his car from 
driving through the ford. QIC reviewed the claim and declined it. It said there were signs 
warning drivers about the ford, and as Mr T had continued to drive through it, then QIC 
thought he hadnt taken reasonable care to protect his car from damage. 
Mr T didnt agree and complained. He said it was at a time when there had been hot weather 
and the water level of the ford had seemed low. He said the car in front had driven through it 
and, as he was following them, he didnt really have time to react and just followed them 
through the ford. QIC reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. It stood by its position that 
Mr Ts claim wasnt covered. Mr T didnt agree and referred his complaint here.  
Our investigator reviewed Mr Ts complaint and recommended it be upheld. She thought that 
by definition a ford is designed to be driven through. And that Mr T hadnt thought it would 
damage his car by driving through it, as hed seen another car drive through it before him. 
Our investigator recommended QIC accept Mr Ts claim and pay him the reasonable costs 
he incurred having his car repaired. She also recommended QIC pay £250 compensation to 
Mr T for the distress and inconvenience caused by having his claim unfairly declined. 
Mr T accepted our investigators outcome. QIC didnt and asked for an Ombudsmans 
decision. As QIC didnt accept our investigators outcome the complaint has come to me to 
decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts policy say under the general conditions section:
You or any insured driver must take reasonable steps to:
Protect your car from loss or damage;
QIC has also relied on a term which says it wont cover damage to Mr Ts car if its caused 
deliberately. Ive therefore considered both of these to determine whether QIC has applied 
them fairly, and Im not persuaded it has. 
For the term which refers to deliberate damage, there isnt anything other than QIC relying on 
the term to suggest Mr T damaged his car deliberately, and so Im not satisfied that term 
applies here. Ive therefore focused my decision on the reasonable steps term quoted above. 
The recognised approach to a reasonable care term is whether Mr T foresaw the risk and did 
nothing to mitigate it, i.e. that he was reckless. 
QIC has said there are signs for the ford and that Mr T therefore would have known there 
was a ford and proceeded to continue to drive down the road. While I understand there were 
signs for the ford, a ford is also able to be driven through, albeit if the conditions permit. Mr T 
explained it was summertime and the weather had been warm. He also said he thought the 
water was inches deep and he didnt think it would have damaged his car. During the 
interview call after the incident Mr T also explained several other cars drove through the ford 
after hed driven through it without any issues.
When considering Mr Ts comments, Im not persuaded QIC has shown he was reckless 
when he decided to drive through the ford. I say this as Mr T was aware of the ford and didnt 
think it would cause any damage to his car when driving through it, as another car drove 
through it before him. It therefore follows that Im not satisfied QIC has acted fairly and 
reasonably by declining the claim under the term it has.
Ive therefore looked at the impact of QIC unfairly declining this claim. Mr T said hes paid for 
a replacement engine and had this fitted and provided evidence of this. He also said he had 
to pay for storage of his car, moving it to be repaired and an initial inspection. Therefore, QIC 
should pay Mr T the £1,722 he paid for the replacement engine, and the £1,704.02 he paid 
for the engine to be fitted. For the storage of Mr Ts car, initial inspection and moving it to a 
garage to be repaired, Mr T said this cost him £720. QIC should therefore also pay Mr T this 
amount, subject to Mr T providing evidence of this. QIC should also add 8% simple interest 
per year to the amount it pays for these, to compensate Mr T for not having the money. As 
this would be recorded as a claim, QIC will be entitled to deduct any applicable excesses 
from what it pays, in line with the remaining terms and conditions. 
Ive also noted in the file that it appears QIC has tried to recover £118.56 for an initial 
inspection fee from Mr T. As Im satisfied this is a valid claim, it wouldnt be fair for QIC to 
recover its investigation costs, as that is all part of its claim handling process. Therefore, QIC 
needs to stop recovery of its claim costs and remove any adverse markers it may have 
applied if Mr T hasnt paid them. If money has already been recovered from Mr T by QIC, 
which relate to this claim, it needs to refund those along with 8% simple interest to 
compensate him for not having the money.  
Ive also considered that Mr T has had to organise for his car to be stored, find a replacement 
engine and organise for the engine to be fitted. If QIC had dealt with his claim, then Mr T 
wouldnt have had to do these. Therefore, QIC should pay Mr T £250 for the unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience he had organising all of these.  
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
QIC Europe Ltd to:
1. Pay Mr T £1,722 for the replacement engine
2. Pay Mr T £1,704.02 for the engine to be fitted3. Pay Mr T £720 for the initial inspection, recovery and storage of Mr Ts car. Subject 
to Mr T providing evidence of these costs
4. Not recover any claim costs its incurred from Mr T and remove any adverse markers 
which relate to them if Mr t hasnt paid them. If any claim costs have already been 
recovered from Mr T, these need to be refunded to Mr T 
5. Pay Mr T £250 for distress and inconvenience
For items 1,2, 3 and 4 above, QIC Europe Ltd also needs to add 8% simple interest per year 
to the amount it pays, calculated from the date Mr T paid them until payment is made. HM 
Revenue & Customs may require QIC Europe Ltd to take off tax from this interest. If asked, 
QIC Europe Ltd must give Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
As QIC Europe Ltd are paying the claim, its entitled to deduct any applicable policy excess 
from the amount it pays. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman