DRN-3317390
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zopa Limited has unfairly applied a market rate adjustment (MRA) when
he sells loans from his crowdfunding accounts. He says he has lost out financially because
the MRA has been deducted from his sale proceeds.
What happened
Mr S holds two crowdfunding accounts on Zopas peer to peer (P2P) lending platform  his
first account was opened in 2016 and an ISA account was opened in 2019. Zopas platform
allows investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest payments. An
investor agrees to lend a proportion of the total loan a borrower is looking to borrow, and in
return an investor receives interest on their loan part. At the time of Mr Ss complaint, Zopa
provided a secondary market for investors to access their funds early by selling their loan
parts to other investors.
In October 2020, Mr S complained to Zopa as he was unhappy about that he was being
charged a 5% MRA for loans he wanted to sell. He didnt think this was fair because his
loans had been performing well  so he didnt think the MRA was justified.
Zopa didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:
-It made some changes to the way it calculates the MRA in March 2020 to ensure the
price of historic loans accounted for the uncertainty caused by the global pandemic.
-It does not take any cut of the MRA and the entire adjustment is passed on to the
investor purchasing the loan so as to compensate for the difference in current rates
compared to rates on historic loans available on the secondary market.
-Its terms cover the situations of when and how an MRA would be introduced.
-Loans covered by its Safeguard fund would still be subject to the MRA. And the
Safeguard fund doesnt guarantee against losses.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response he received from Zopa, so he referred his complaint to
this service for an independent review.
One of investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt think it should be upheld. Mr S 
didnt agree with the investigators assessment. He said the projected return available
to investors was lower than the returns on his accounts. So, the investors buying his loans 
had a benefit of an increased return plus a discount from the MRA. He doesnt accept
there was an increased risk to his loans - so doesnt think MRA should have been applied.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2021  I said I didnt intend on uphold the 
complaint. 
This is what I said:
Ive looked at the terms that were applicable to Mr S when he opened in his first Zopa
account. These confirm that there is the ability to withdraw from a loan early. They explain:
In the event that any Market Loan you wish to cash out using the Rapid Return Facility is
at a lower interest rate than any other Lenders' Market Offer, you will incur a charge, payable
to the incoming Lender, equivalent to the shortfall in interest that the incoming Lender would
otherwise have received on that Loan Contract at the incoming Lender's Market Offer rate.
By the time Mr S opened his second account the terms had been updated and provided the
following information about the possible fees when selling loans. These say:
Note: The market rate adjustment fee
There may be occasions when the projected returns on the loans you want to sell are lower
than the returns currently available to investors for loans which have a similar expected
performance to yours. To encourage investors to buy your loan if this happens, we'll work
out an additional amount (the market rate adjustment fee), equal to the additional return they
would expect to earn and deduct it from the amount the new investor must pay you.
Example - where there's £10 left to pay on the loan you want to sell.
If the interest rate on your loan is the same as the rate an investor would be paid on a
new loan and all repayments have been made on time, the projected return for your loan
is likely to be the same, so the purchasing investor may pay you £10.
If the interest rate on your loan is lower than the rate an investor would be paid on a new
loan and not all repayments have been made on time, the projected return for your loan
is likely to be less, so the purchasing investor may pay you £9.80. Effectively the other
20p is treated as an upfront interest payment to the investor buying your loan.
Zopa also says information was available to Mr S on its website when he opened his
accounts to explain the key features. This included the following information about loan sale
fees:
Loan sale fees:
 A 1% fee applies if you choose to access your money before the end of the loan term
by selling outstanding loans to other investors.
 If the loans you're selling are worth less than equivalent loans today, you will pay a
market rate adjustment fee to the purchasing investor.
So this information supports that Mr S was aware of the possibility of an MRA being applied.
However, Mr S disputes that it has been applied correctly when he attempted to sell his loan
parts in 2020. Mr S argues that Zopa hasnt provided justification for applying the MRA
because his loans were preforming better than the average returns on the platform. So he
doesnt think it should have been applied.
The application of the MRA is a re-pricing instrument applied to loans which are sold on the
secondary market. I say this as Zopa has confirmed it doesnt receive any money from the
transfer payment. Instead its paid directly to investors who acquire loan parts via the
secondary market. It acts as discount incentive to those acquiring loans into their account. In
June 2019 the regulator, the FCA, published its policy statement on Loan-based (peer-to 
peer) and investment-based crowdfunding platforms: Feedback to CP18/20 and final rules. 
In this, the FCA provided clarity around when and how often crowdfunding platforms should 
re-price loans. It implemented this by way of introducing new rules into COBS which came 
into force in December 2019.
COBS 18.12.16 R explains that:
Where a firm determines the price of a P2P agreement it must review the valuation of each
P2P agreement in at least the following circumstances:[]
(4) where the firm is facilitating an exit for a lender before the maturity date of
the P2P agreement.
And COBS 18.12.17 R goes on to explain that:
Where a firm that determines the price of P2P agreements is facilitating an exit for a lender
before the maturity date of a P2P agreement, the firm must ensure that the price offered for
exiting the P2P agreement is fair and appropriate.
The FCA added that this is a non-exhaustive list as the frequency of re-pricing will depend
on a platforms business model. It is therefore for each individual platform to determine in
light of its business model and the offer it is making to investors.
In Mr Ss case, Zopa is facilitating an exit for him by way of selling his loan parts on the
secondary market prior to them maturing. So its clear that Zopa has a regulatory
requirement to ensure that the price for Mr Ss loan parts are fair and appropriate on the
secondary market. So in order to determine whether this is fair and appropriate, its
important to understand what considerations Zopa made before introducing this.
Having reviewed the information Zopa has provided about how it would apply the MRA, I
think it has applied it fairly  Ill explain why. But first I think it would be helpful to explain my
understanding of the situation of when an MRA would apply. The MRA is applied by
comparing new loan rates  with rates of loans that are already running that are being put up
for sale by investors. So this means if a consumer is trying to sell a loan on the secondary
market  and the equivalent new loan of similar risk level is being offered on the platform at
the same time with a higher interest rate, an MRA would apply.
Weve asked Zopa to provide evidence that this was the situation when Mr S was selling his
loans in 2020. It says the interest rates it charged for borrowing went up by roughly 5% for a
period, this was to reflect the uncertainty in the market, and also the possibility that more
loans would fall into arrears and default. It has provided details of the average interest rates
paid to lenders for new loans during the period from the start of 2019 to the end of 2020.
This shows a starting point of an average rate that broadly stays between 7 and 8% through
2019 and at the start of 2020, then in April 2020 this jumps to 11% and increases further
over the next few months hitting a peak of over 12% in July 2020 before staying around 11%
for the rest of the year. This information shows that new loans being offered in mid-2020
were at a higher interest rate (on average) than the loans that exiting loans from 2019. This
information supports the situation where an MRA would apply. It is important to remember
these rates arent the guaranteed returns for investors as it depends on whether repayments
were kept up by borrowers.
Zopa has reiterated that the MRA Mr S paid was passed on to the investors who purchased
the loans on the secondary market to compensate for the fact his loans were at a lower
interest rate than new loans. It says if it didnt apply the MRA  Mr S would not be able to sell
loans at all as it would make no sense for people who were still investing in the platform to
purchase loans at a lower interest rate.
Mr S disagrees with Zopa  he says the interest rates increased to the borrower not the
investor. The evidence Mr S has relied on to support his complaint is the information he was
sent by Zopa to explain the current performance of his existing loans with the current
projection of returns on the platform at the time he was trying to sell. He says the projected
returns available to investors were 2.9% in October 2020 and the average percentage return
on the loans in his accounts was 3.76% and 4.4%  so above the projected rate for new
investors.But projected returns isnt what the MRA is based on  as explained above its based on
interest rates for new loans compared to existing loan rates. Zopa has explained the weekly
projection emails sent to Mr S reference the returns after expected losses. Expected loss
assumptions increased as a result of the uncertainty caused by the global pandemic, so
whilst interest rates went up for borrowers and investors, this did not necessarily translate to
higher expected returns due to the higher loss environment prevailing. It also says interest
rates were increased on newly originated loans to try and protect investor returns due to the
likelihood of more loans defaulting or falling into arrears. Zopa says the projected returns it
quoted are by definition forward looking based on expected performance of new loans. And
Mr S is comparing this to the actual performance of his portfolio of loans which he historically
acquired during times where the environment was more stable.
Ive considered the points Mr S makes about projected returns compared to the performance
of his loans. When providing a projected return, Zopa makes assumptions on performance in
the future. But as explained above, this isnt the relevant criteria for when an MRA is applied.
Zopas justification for introducing the MRA was based on actual interest rates on existing
loans compared to the equivalent rates for new loans. So, I dont agree that the comparison
Mr S makes between projected rates and the current performance of his existing loans is a
strong argument to show that the MRA was unfairly applied. Im persuaded by the evidence
provided that the MRA was introduced to promote liquidity in the secondary market. Mr S
argues his existing loans didnt carry a higher risk  so Zopa didnt need to apply MRA to
them. But where Mr Ss loans performed well (and risks didnt materialise) it doesnt mean
there wasnt more risk. Generally speaking, default risk did increase as a result of the
circumstances surrounding the pandemic, so interest rates on new loans increased to reflect
that. And its important to consider Mr S didnt have to sell his loan parts on the secondary
market if he didnt want to incur the MRA. The MRA is only triggered if Mr S decides to exit
from his investment before the maturity date of the loans. So, he was able to avoid the MRA
by cancelling any requests to transfer loan parts and keeping the loan parts until they mature
and withdrawing his monthly repayments.
In conclusion, Im satisfied the relevant terms and conditions allow for Zopa to apply an MRA
to the sale of loan parts on the secondary market. Im also satisfied the way in which Zopa
has in practice done this on Mr Ss accounts is in line with the way the terms suggest. So, I
havent found Zopa to be acting outside of the agreement it had with Mr S. I acknowledge Mr
S believes he has been treated unfairly because he was charged an MRA on loans that were
outperforming the wider platform projections. But I think it is fair for Zopa to price secondary
market loans to reflect changes in the broader market risk (e.g. the impact of the pandemic
on the market). And I find the result of the MRA being applied was to bring the price of Mr
Ss loans in line with newly originated loans - which seems reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Zopa didnt provide any further comments for me to consider.  
Mr S didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary he said:
He questions the information provided by Zopa about the  average  interest  rates paid to  
lenders  for new loans  during  the period from  the start of 2019  to the end of 2020 - 
specifically whether these were projected or actual rates. He said there  had been  a gross 
exaggeration on Zopas behalf.
He referred to the FCA guidance on re-pricing and doesnt think ombudsmans findings are 
following Zopas investor principles. He said, there is no reference to interest borrower rates 
in the investor principles. And he understands the MRA to be the difference of returns when 
buying second-hand loans, which is the projected return Zopa quote in their example given in the principles. He has also made further comments about what he sees as discrepancies 
between the weekly emails he received about projected returns and the information Zopa 
has provided to justify the MRA. 
Hes received notice that Zopa are now buying all the loans back from investors. He 
believes this must have been a future plan, therefore increasing MRA would be in Zopas 
interest as it would decrease the amount they had to pay when buying back loans. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent found reason to change the conclusion I reached in my provisional 
decision Ill explain why. 
Mr S has questioned the figures Zopa has provided to demonstrate that lender rates were 
increasing during the pandemic. Zopa has confirmed, the rates quoted are those 
contractually agreed as part of the new P2P lending agreements that were originated each 
month. These differ from projected rates. Projected rates are calculated using forward-
looking assumptions of what is likely to be returned on existing loans taking into account 
market conditions, payment history and projected defaults. So the figures Zopa has 
provided, demonstrate the rates for newly originated loans were higher from April 2020 for 
both borrowers and lenders as a result of the underlying market conditions. For clarity, the 
figures that were quoted in the provisional decision were based on information provided by 
Zopa on the average rate for lenders, not borrowers (Zopa say borrower rates were actually 
slightly higher). Loans that originated prior to this, historically were agreed at lower rates 
when they were first made available on the platform  under different market conditions. 
Having considered Mr Ss comments, I havent found evidence to say Zopa has exaggerated 
the figures. 
Mr S has provided his interpretation of the application of the MRA from the description in 
Zopas investor principles. He refers to the investors principles that say:
There may be occasions when the projected returns on the loans you want to sell are lower 
than the returns currently available to investors for loans which have a similar expected 
performance to yours.
There does seem to be some confusion on how projected rates fit into the application of the 
MRA. So, I will attempt to explain my understanding based on the evidence provided. 
When a loan is put up for sale on the secondary market, the projected rate of this loan can 
be established because it has been inexistence for a period and will have a known payment 
history. This projected rate is then compared to newly originated loans at the sale point. As 
these are new loans, they dont have a payment history and the rate used isnt impacted by 
passed performance. Also, the interest rate set for new loans is based on current market 
conditions  so provides a rate that is up to date with the underlying market. And Zopa have 
told us rates went up for newly originated loans in the period after March 2020  whereas the 
loans Mr S was selling, originated when interest rates were lower. In simple terms, where the 
projected rate of the loan put up for sale is lower than the rate for a newly originated loan the 
difference is the MRA discount. 
While, Ive also considered the further comments Mr S has made about the projected rates 
that he received by email, Im not persuaded that they support he has been treated unfairly 
in the way MRAs have been applied to his loan sales. The monthly emails Mr S received 
give him projected performance of his existing loan portfolio that had been acquired over a number of years. But I dont think this information has a direct link to how the MRA was 
calculated on any of the specific loans that he sold. The emails do appear to show that the 
loans in his portfolio were projected to perform better than the platform average during that 
time. But I dont think this information can be used when establishing the individual 
calculation of an MRA applied to loans that was sold during this period.   
I appreciate that this isnt the most straightforward of things to explain. But I havent found 
that Mr Ss further comments lead me to make a different decision to that I explained in my 
provisional decision. So, it remains that, I dont think Mr S has lost out by the way MRAs 
were applied to the loans he sold.  
Mr S has received notice that Zopa intends to close the P2P lending part of its business, so 
all of his loans were due to be repaid at current face value by the end of January 2022 (and 
as far as I understand this has happened). He believes this must have been a future plan 
and increasing MRAs has allowed Zopa to benefit when it buys back loans. While, I 
understand the assumption Mr S has made, I havent seen anything to support this to be the 
case. Im satisfied the purpose of the MRA was to offer a discount to investors buying loans 
not to benefit Zopa at a later date. Im not persuaded by the evidence and arguments 
provided that the commercial decision Zopa made recently has caused Mr S a loss or 
treated him unfairly.  
Having re-considered all the evidence and arguments, it remains my conclusion that Zopa 
havent treated Mr S unfairly in the way it introduced an MRA on the loan parts he sold on 
the secondary market. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman