DRN-2022225
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that National House-Building Council trading as NHBC unfairly 
declined a claim theyve made under their building warranty policy.
What happened
Mrs Y brings this complaint on behalf of her and her husband. So, for ease, any references I 
make to her actions include those of her husband.
Mrs Y part-owns a property jointly with a housing association. The property has the benefit of 
an NHBC Buildmark building warranty which provides cover, in some instances, for defects 
which affect it.
In March 2019, Mrs Y noticed water entering into the property. She contacted the housing 
association, the developer and eventually NHBC to report the problem. NHBC asked her to 
provide photos of the issue. Once she did this, it declined the claim. 
Mrs Y wasnt happy and complained, saying the housing association thought the issue might 
relate to the construction of the building. NHBC responded saying that, having looked at the 
evidence, it thought the windows in the flat hadnt been installed correctly and this was the 
cause of the problem. And it explained this wasnt covered under the policy.
Mrs Y didnt think this was fair so brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator 
considered the evidence and decided not to uphold the complaint. But she said if further 
evidence became available that suggested the claim should be covered, Mrs Y should send 
this to NHBC for it to consider further.
Unhappy with this answer, Mrs Y asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Building warranties arent designed to cover everything that might go wrong with a property. 
The terms and conditions of the policy define what is  and isnt  covered and they form the 
basis of the contract between the insurer and the policyholder. In this case, the relevant 
terms of the Buildmark cover are detailed in Section 3. 
With claims, the onus is on the policyholder to demonstrate that the policy provides cover for 
the damage.
Ill be mindful of these things when reaching my decision while keeping in mind what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
The cause
Having viewed the photos provided by Mrs Y, NHBCs surveyor concluded the cause of the 
problem was due to the installation of the windows.  The housing associations surveyor 
seems to be in broad agreement the problem lies with the window area, the relevant 
comment on the likely cause being: 
defective window frame created a gap between glazing and frame causing water ingress
I know Mrs Y disagrees and believes the problem may result from an issue relating to the 
construction of the building. This belief seems to stem from some initial speculative 
comments made by the housing association, but Ive seen nothing to substantiate this. 
Overall, Im persuaded its more likely than not the problem lies with either the installation of 
the windows or a defective window frame.
The cover 
So, Ive then gone on to consider what the terms of the policy say. The only cover relating to 
windows in this section of the policy is detailed below. The policy states
What NHBC will pay for
A. The full cost, if it is more than £1,000 indexed of putting right any actual physical 
Damage caused by a Defect in any of the following parts of the house, bungalow, 
maisonette or flat and its garage or other permanent outbuildingsdouble or 
triple-glazing panes to external windows and doors
From this, I think its clear theres no cover for issues relating to window installation or 
defective window frames, only for damage caused by a defect in window panes. Im 
therefore satisfied NHBC has acted fairly in declining this claim.
I note, NHBC says if, after further investigation by Mrs Y or the housing association, theres 
evidence there is a structural defect, it will give this further consideration. Im satisfied this is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 September 2020.
 
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman