DRN-3044646
The complaint
Mr Us complaint relates to the transfer of his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) from 
James Hay Administration Company Ltd (JH) to True Potential (TP). As part of the 
transfer, his investments with Brewin Dolphin Limited (BDL) were liquidated, and the 
proceeds were transferred too. Mr U says the transfer process was unduly delayed and that 
JH and BDL are jointly responsible for the delay.
Mr U has a separate complaint alleging BDLs contribution to the delay. The present 
complaint is only about JH.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that JH had offered 
enough to fairly resolve it, so it should not be upheld. She mainly found as follows:
Following Mr U instruction of the transfer [on 6 November 2019] JH wrote to BDL on 
8 November 2019 and asked BDL to liquidate his investments. This contact included 
the following request  
Please confirm you have received and completed this request by signing and faxing 
back the attached disclaimer to us  once the portfolio has been fully surrendered 
and the monies have been returned. We acknowledge that you may retain a minimal 
balance to cover any charges and that the account may not be able to formally close 
for a given period pending receipt of any future dividends.
Mr Us BDL investments were liquidated by 25 November and the proceeds of 
around £320,000 were sent to JH, but the disclaimer was not.
On 2 December JH asked BDL for confirmation that Mr Us account was closed; on 5 
December BDL replied to say the account would be closed after additional 
investment income that had been received was remitted; additional income payments 
were received on 5, 10 and 12 December; and on 16 December the closing 
statement was sent to JH.
JH thereafter completed the transfer on 17 January 2020.
The disclaimer that JH requested from BDL was needed once it had liquidated the 
investments (and sent the proceeds), and JHs request made allowances for 
dividends and charges. As such, it was not necessary for BDL to wait until all income 
had been received before it provided the disclaimer. Having transferred the 
liquidation proceeds on 25 November BDL should have provided JH with the 
disclaimer by 27 November. Had it done so, based on the 10 working days it 
normally took JH to process a transfer, the transfer (to TP) would have been done by 
11 December. However, due to the receipts from the BDL account over 5, 10 and 12 
December it is fair to say JH would not have concluded the transfer until 3 January 
2020, which is when JH says it should have done so. 
JH is responsible for the transfer delay between 3 January 2020 and when it 
completed the transfer. JH already concedes responsibility for the delay over this 
period and it has offered to compensate Mr U for any investment loss in this respect, 
so it would not be fair to ask JH to do any more.
Mr U queried this outcome with regards to responsibility for the ongoing effect, to date, of 
any financial loss incurred between 3 and 17 January 2020  in other words, he queried 
compensation for his SIPPs performance to date being hindered by the missing amount of 
any such financial loss. The investigator responded and said  James Hay would need to 
consider what the value would be on [sic] today if it was invested on 3 January 2020 in 
comparison to what it is actually worth today. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator.
The separate complaint about BDL was also referred to me and I concluded (with reasons) 
in that case that BDL contributed to the delayed transfer between 11 December 2019 and 3 
January 2020 because of its unreasonable delay in returning the signed declaration 
requested by JH. 
I agree with the investigators assessment that the income receipts, from BDL and from      
Mr Us liquidated BDL investments, up to 12 December 2019 would probably have meant  
especially in the context of JHs internal transfer process usually taking five to 10 working 
days for transfers  conclusion of the transfer by 3 January 2020. I have not seen evidence 
of a good reason why the transfer was not concluded until 17 January 2020, so I understand 
why JH accepts that it should have done so by 3 January  and I agree that it should have 
done so by this date.
JH has already offered to compensate Mr U for investment loss between 3 and 17 January 
2020. In its letter to Mr U dated 7 May 2020 JH said  
In conclusion, I have upheld your complaint and would like to take this opportunity to 
reiterate my apologies to you for the service that you received from James Hay on this 
occasion. Turning to the question of investment loss, I am of course happy to give this 
matter further consideration.
The letter proceeded to ask Mr U for details of the investments made in his TP SIPP in order 
for JH to conduct redress considerations and calculations. In its letter to this service dated 
16 September 2020, JH summarised its position on the complaint and, in conclusion, said  
As you will see from my final response letter to [Mr U], I agreed that James [sic] had caused 
some delay to [Mr Us] transfer away because James Hay did not act in a timely manner 
upon receipt of the disclaimer from Brewin Dolphin. I therefore offered to pay any investment 
loss that may have occurred if [Mr Us] monies had been sent to his new provider on 03 
January 2020. [my emphasis]
I understand the enquiry that Mr U put to the investigator and I agree with her response. I also 
consider that the offer that JH has made to him stands to cover  any investment loss that 
may have occurred if [Mr Us] monies had been sent to his new provider on 03 January 
2020, as JH has expressly stated to us and as I emphasised in the quote above. This 
means loss that has resulted from JHs failure to complete the transfer by 3 January 2020 so, as the investigator said, this reasonably includes resulting loss in value to date. The 
aforementioned quotes from JH do not conflict with this and the second quote is broadly 
consistent with this.
Like the investigator, I am not persuaded that JH should do more than what it has already 
offered to do to address compensation for Mr U. It appears that after he engages with JH 
and provides it with information about the TP SIPP required to conduct its redress 
consideration and calculation, the matter will be settled. 
For the sake of completeness, the above conclusion is based on the understanding that JHs 
offer fairly covers the consideration and calculation of any investment loss to date in Mr Us 
TP SIPP resulting from JHs failure to complete the transfer on 3 January 2020; and I have 
set out why I consider this to be the offer it has already made to him. If JH subsequently 
alters its position in this respect such could potentially amount to material change in the 
case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Us complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman