DRN-3515549
The complaint
Mrs D complains about how One Insurance Limited (One) dealt with a claim on her motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs D had motor insurance with One. Her car was involved in an accident and One decided 
it couldnt be economically repaired. In accordance with the terms of her policy, One offered 
her the market value of the car in settlement. However One said the car had previously been 
a write off and so it deducted 30% of the market value. Mrs D said she hadnt known the car 
was previously written off and she complained to One about the settlement amount, and also 
about delays in dealing with her claim.
One agreed there had been some delay in dealing with the claim and paid Mrs D £50 
compensation. However One said it had provided Mrs D with the correct pre accident value 
of her car.
Mrs D wasnt happy with this and complained to this service. Our investigator partly upheld 
her complaint. She said a 20% deduction from the original settlement value of the car would 
have been fair. So she asked One to pay Mrs D 10% of the original settlement value, plus 
interest. But the investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint about the service she received 
from One, saying there was a slight delay during the claim but that One had offered Mrs D 
£50 compensation for this. 
Mrs D was happy with our investigators suggestion, but One didnt agree, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
This service would usually expect someone to do some sort of check on a cars history 
before buying it. Mrs D didnt do any checks. So it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to ask One 
to pay Mrs D the full settlement value of her car.
But in cases like this, we generally consider a deduction of up to 20% to be fair unless there 
was a good reason to deduct more. Our investigator asked One why it had deducted 30% in 
this case. One just provided evidence of the salvage offer for the car, which would be low for 
a car that had been written off before. So, I dont think the 30% deduction was fair and 
reasonable. I think a 20% deduction would have been reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to 
pay Mrs D 10% of the original settlement value of the car, making the total paid the 
settlement value less 20%.
This to include interest at 8% a year simple from the date One Insurance Limited initially 
made a payment to settle the claim to the date of payment. If One Insurance Limited 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs D a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman