DRN-2703742
The complaint
Mr T complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited (BMW). 
  
What happened
In October 2019 Mr T acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement. In April 2020, 
he started to have problems with the car. Mr T had visits from five mobile engineers and 
visited the dealership for repairs on two occasions. 
Below is a summary of the faults and work completed, compiled from the job sheets and 
BMWs system notes. 
11 April 2020  Fuel recently topped up but dash showing as empty. Problem with electric 
mirrors. Recommend a software update. 
7 May 2020  Multiple warning lights on dash. Braking system and pedestrian detection 
system. Faults cleared, awaiting software update.
20 May 2020  Taken to the dealership and software update installed. 
03 June 2020  Dash not displaying gesture controls. Battery reset and fault codes cleared. 
05 June 2020  Warnings on dash including braking system. Fault codes cleared. Customer 
will take to dealership for investigation. 
06 June 2020  Warnings on dash including electronic power steering and braking. Engineer 
suggests the software download may have been corrupt and needs to be reinstalled. The 
engineer notes that the car is driveable. 
08 August 2020  Taken to the dealership and software update installed. 
Mr T reports that he continues to experience intermittent electrical faults with the vehicle. 
Hes asked BMW to reject the car and says he no longer feels safe driving it. 
BMW didnt provide an answer to Mr Ts request to reject the car. And they didnt answer his 
complaint, so he brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. He felt that the car was of unsatisfactory quality 
when it was supplied and agreed that Mr T was able to reject it. He made several 
recommendations on how BMW needed to put things right. 
BMW didnt respond to our investigators view, so the case was been passed to me for a 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in January 2021 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
Ive asked Mr T for some further information relating to his losses, which he has supplied. I 
asked BMW if they had a response to our investigators view, but they havent provided a 
response, so Ive gone on to consider the merits of the complaint. 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. BMW as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
My starting point is BMW supplied Mr T with a car that was 7 months old and that cost over 
£30,000. I dont have evidence of the mileage at the time of supply, but it is recorded as 
being 6,200 at the time of the first fault. So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person 
would expect the level of quality to be higher than a cheaper more road worn vehicle. And, 
that it could be used, free from defects, for a considerable period of time. 
Mr T began to experience faults with the electrics around six months after acquiring the car. 
He had several engineer visits to clear the faults in a short space of time and took the 
vehicle to the dealership for a software upgrade on two occasions. This doesnt seem to 
have remedied the problem or identified the root cause of the fault itself.  
Based on the evidence, I am satisfied that there was a fault with the vehicle at the time of 
supply and that it wasnt of satisfactory quality. I dont think a reasonable person would 
expect numerous electrical issues within a few months of purchase. 
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything BMW need to do to put things 
right. The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered 
not to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair 
the goods. I think the two attempts at installing new software were BMWs opportunity to 
repair the goods and return them to a satisfactory state. So, Mr T should now be allowed to 
exercise his final right to reject the vehicle. This would mean the car is collected from Mr T, 
the finance agreement is bought to an end, and Mr T has his deposit refunded (plus 
interest).
Our investigator has recommended that BMW refund Mr T 50% of his monthly payments to 
reflect the loss of use of the car. The car was driveable, and Mr T has told me that its current 
mileage is approximately 8,000, so he has had some use of the car throughout the process 
of his complaint. But, one of the aspects of owning a car such as the one Mr T purchased is 
its comfort and style. Some of its functions werent working correctly all the time, and some 
of the warning lights related to important safety aspects of the car, such as breaking, so I 
can understand why Mr T might have felt unsafe in continuing to drive the car. Overall, Im 
satisfied that a 50% refund of his monthly rental payments compensates Mr T for the loss of 
use and loss of enjoyment of the car. 
Our investigator also recommended that BMW pay Mr T £200 compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused. BMW have not responded to Mr Ts initial request to 
reject the car which was made in June 2020, and so hes been put to inconvenience in trying 
to resolve the matter through other means. Mr T has had to make himself and the car 
available for a number of inspections to clear the faults, and he says that hes suffered embarrassment in repeated visits by engineers to his home address. In the round, I think 
£200 is fair to reflect the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr T. 
Mr T responded to our investigators view to say that hes had to continue to pay to insure 
and tax the vehicle, will have to pay around £100 to remove his cherished plate and £25 to 
cancel the service plan on the vehicle so would like these costs refunded. 
Mr T has used the car in some capacity during the course of his complaint, so I am satisfied 
that he is responsible for the cost of maintaining its tax and insurance. The rejection of the 
car does bring about the added cost of cancelling the service plan, and the cost for Mr T to 
remove his cherished plate that he wouldnt have faced otherwise. So, I think that BMW 
should refund him for these losses. The DVLA website states that the removal of a 
personalised plate costs £80, and Im satisfied that £25 is a standard cancellation fee for a 
service plan.
BMW havent responded to my provision decision. 
Mr T has provided evidence that he paid £30 to cancel the service plan, but otherwise 
accepted my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see no reason to alter my provisional decision as there hasnt been any further substantial 
evidence provided, save for the small increase in the refund for the cancellation of the 
service plan. Im satisfied that Mr T has paid £30 to cancel this, and for reasons Ive 
explained previously, that BMW should refund him for this loss.   
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited to: 
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr T
Refund Mr Ts deposit of £18,850 and pay 8% simple yearly interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund 50% of Mr Ts monthly rental payments that relate to use of the car from 1 
April 2020 and pay 8% simple yearly interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Pay Mr T a total of £110 for the cancelled service agreement and cherished plate 
costs
Pay Mr T £200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. BMW 
must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr T 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Remove the finance agreement from Mr Ts credit file. 
If BMW considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr T how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman