DRN-3501297
The complaint
Mr C complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
Mr C, along with his wife, bought a timeshare from a timeshare supplier in June 2010. The 
total cost of membership was £3,780, which was paid for by way of a loan from BPF. That 
loan was taken out in Mr Cs sole name and paid off in August 2010.
In March 2021, Mr C (using a professional representative) made a claim against BPF for 
problems he said he had had with the timeshare.1 In particular he said:
The nature of the timeshare had been misrepresented to him and his wife.
The timeshare agreement was null and void due to an EU Directive.
The associated loan from BPF was also null and void due to breaches of the CCA 
and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999.
BPF never asked for any information about his income or expenditure before granting 
the loan.
BPF responded to the claim, but said it had been brought too late under the provisions set 
out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). It said that if Mr C was unhappy with the outcome it 
reached he could refer a complaint to our service, which he did.
Mr Cs representative (SL) argued that any claim had been made in time and explained 
that he was only aware of the problems with the timeshare and loan after it had been 
engaged to represent him. SL argued that he complained within the 3 years date of 
knowledge rule. In addition, SL said that he had held on to his timeshare until June 2013, 
when it was upgraded to a different product with the same supplier. As that upgrade was still 
in place, SL argued that he claimed during the period of time that his relationship with the 
supplier was still ongoing.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that BPF had acted fairly 
in turning down the claim. He thought that there were two potential claims Mr C could have 
made under s.75 and s.140A CCA, but both claims had been made too late under the 
provisions in the LA. Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I considered the complaint and issued a provisional decision, setting out my initial findings 
on the complaint. I came to the same conclusion as our investigator, but for different 
reasons.
1 Although the timeshare was in the names of Mr and Mrs C, as the loan was in Mr Cs name only, he 
was the only person eligible to make the claim
I noted that there were several claims that Mr C was making to BPF. I considered each in 
turn.
The claim under s.75 CCA
Mr C said that the timeshare supplier misrepresented the nature of the membership to him 
and his wife when they bought it. I said that under s.9 LA, Mr C had to make that claim within 
six years of when he entered into the timeshare and credit agreements  which was in June 
2010  because that was when he said he lost out having relied on false statements of fact.
As Mr C first made a claim to BPF in March 2021, that fell outside of the time limit set out in 
the LA.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I said that I had to consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Much like a claim under s.75 CCA, the LA also applies to claims under s.140A CCA. Under 
s.9 LA2, Mr C had to make his claim within six years of when the loan ended  which was in 
August 2010. But as the claim was made in March 2021, it was made outside of the time 
limit that applies.
Could limitation be extended?
The LA provides for extensions of the time limits in certain circumstances. Having 
considered the facts of this complaint, I did not think the lime limits I set out could be 
extended under any of the provisions of the LA.
SL argued that an unfair relationship with the timeshare provider continued beyond August 
2010 and, as the loan from BPF had been used to fund the timeshare purchase, time for the 
purposes of the LA did not start to run until Mr and Mrs C stopped paying maintenance fees 
in 2020.
S.140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor arising 
out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement). But once Mr C 
repaid the loan in full, the agreement between him and BPF ended. As it was only the 
relationship between Mr C and BPF that could be found unfair, I thought limitation started to 
run when the credit agreement ended.
SL also said that limitation could be extended by s.14A LA. But I didnt think BPF or the 
timeshare provider owed any duty of care or provided any advice that could give rise to a 
claim to which s.14A LA could apply.
Was the loan agreement voidable?
SL argued that the timeshare agreement was null and void, which meant the related BPF 
loan was voidable and Mr C now wished to exercise his right to rescind it. If the timeshare 
agreement was voidable, I thought it was likely that the related loan was also voidable on the 
recission of the agreement it was used to fund. This was something that could be considered 
under a s.140A CCA claim, but for the reasons I explained, I thought that claim was brought 
too late. But it could also be a freestanding claim in its own right, so I considered it 
2 I was satisfied s.9 LA applies to this claim, not s.8 LA, as Mr C was making a claim for sums 
recoverable by statuteseparately.
SL asked me to consider an EU Directive, some Spanish legislation and a Spanish court 
judgment. They said that, taken together, they demonstrate that a timeshare that provides 
for a floating week or the ability to use points to book holidays with a provider, was a 
voidable agreement. I considered this argument, but I did not agree with the argument that 
Mr and Mrs Cs timeshare agreement was voidable.
The timeshare agreement states that it is governed by English law, not Spanish law, so I did 
not think the Spanish judgment (which in any event related to a different timeshare product 
to Mr and Mrs Cs timeshare) could be applied directly to the question as to whether the 
contract is voidable under English law.
I noted that SL had not asked me to consider any specific part of the relevant EU Directive or 
any other provision (in English or European law) that would point to Mr and Mrs Cs 
timeshare being voidable. Having read all of the relevant legislation, rules and regulations, I 
could not see anything that would have the effect Mr Cs representative sought. In fact, in the 
recent House of Commons Library Briefing Paper, Timeshares: common problems faced by 
UK owners, it was said that a floating week or points based timeshare were basic 
timeshare models that were not described as being problems in and of themselves. Based 
on the evidence I had seen, I did not think the timeshare agreement nor the related credit 
agreement was voidable for the reasons said.
BPFs decision to lend
Mr C said he was not asked for any information about his income and expenditure before 
BPF made its decision to lend to him. In addition, SL wanted me to consider a letter written 
to BPF by the Financial Conduct Authority setting out concerns it had over BPFs decisions 
to lend on loans brokered by a different timeshare provider.
I said I was able to consider a complaint about BPFs decision to lend to Mr C in June 2010. 
But in any complaint about lending there are a number of matters to consider. First, a lender 
had to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure a prospective borrower 
was able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. Secondly, if such checks were not carried 
out, it is necessary to determine what the right sort of checks would have shown. Finally, if 
the checks showed that the repayment of the borrowing was not sustainable, did the 
borrower lose out?
Mr C said that the right sort of checks did not take place and I said he may have been right 
about that. But he had not provided anything to show that the lending was not affordable for 
him. I had seen nothing to suggest there were any affordability issues, such as missed 
payments or other financial difficulties at the time of the loan. Further, it looked like the loan 
was paid back in full within a few months of being taken out. So, as things stood, I was not 
persuaded that the complaint should be upheld on that basis.
Mr C, via SL, responded to my provisional decision. SL set out in further detail its argument 
that Mr Cs timeshare agreement contravenes the EU Directive. No reference to any English 
law was made, nor did Mr C give any further information about his financial circumstances at 
the time of sale.
BPF responded to say it had nothing further to add.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and good 
industry practice.
I must also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome. So although I have read everything that has been said and provided, I may not 
address every point that has been raised.
SL helpfully summarised the different types of timeshare and long-term holiday products and 
legislation that it says applied to Mr Cs purchase. In summary, it made the following 
arguments:
Two EU Directives applied to the sale  94/47/EC (the 1994 Directive) and 
2008/122/EC (the 2008 Directive). 
The 2008 Directive was implemented into UK law through The Timeshare, Holiday 
Products, Resale and Exchange Contracts Regulations 2010 (the 2010 
Regulations).
A Spanish court judgment held that the Spanish law implementing the 1994 Directive 
meant a timeshare agreement was void as it failed to specify the particular property 
the consumers agreement related to  in other words, that a floating week was not 
lawful in Spanish law.
I was taken to various parts of the 1994 Directive that were said to be relevant to 
Mr Cs sale. In particular there were provisions setting out information that needed to 
be supplied to consumers at the time of purchase and allowed a consumer to cancel 
a contract within three months of taking it out if that information was not supplied. 
Additionally, advance payments prior to the end of the withdrawal period were 
prohibited.
It was said that as Mr C was not legally trained, he would not appreciate that the 
information he should have been given under the 1994 Directive was not there, in 
particular he was not given the apartment number his timeshare applied to nor the 
precise week in the year he could use that apartment. That meant the agreement 
was void due to uncertainty of what was purchased.
Mr C raised his claim within three years of being told he had one by SL. He was not 
aware he could cancel the contract within the three-month period set out in the 1994 
Directive.
The timeshare provider was sent the advance by BPF within three weeks of signing 
the agreement, so that was in breach of the 1994 Directive that prohibited payment 
within three months of the signing of the agreement.
Due to these breaches of the 1994 Directive, Mr Cs timeshare agreement and 
related credit agreement were null and void, which caused the relationship with BPF 
to be unfair. However, Mr C did not know that until he spoke to SL and he 
complained within three years of that date. So there is no time limitation issue.BPF breached its duty of care to Mr C by providing finance for the sale of a timeshare 
that breached the 1994 Directive and not conducting proper due diligence. This 
means s.14A LA applied to Mr Cs claim, which lengthened the time to make it.
Having considered the arguments, I still do not think BPF needs to do anything further.
The effect of the EU Directives
The 2008 Directive was implemented into English law in the 2010 Regulations. However 
they did not come into force until February 2011. As Mr Cs sale took place before then and I 
cannot see that the 2010 Regulations had retrospective effect, I do not think they apply in 
this case.
The 1994 Directive was implemented into English law in the Timeshare Regulations 1997, 
which in turn amended the Timeshare Act 1992 (the 1992 Act). Although SL has not 
mentioned the 1997 Regulations or the 1992 Act, as this is the law that applied to Mr Cs 
purchase, I think it is relevant to his complaint. Further, having read both the 1992 Act and 
1994 Directive, I do not think there is any conflict between them.
There are several matters to note in the Timeshare Act 1992 (as amended and in force at 
the time of Mr Cs sale). In particular, s.1(1) of the act defines timeshare accommodation 
as living accommodation used for leisure purposes, including accommodation within a pool 
of accommodation to which that accommodation belongs. 
Section 1A of the 1992 Act sets out a requirement to provide a document setting out specific 
information about a timeshare to anyone who requests information on the proposed 
accommodation. The things required to be disclosed are set out in Schedule 1 and, broadly 
speaking, include the things SL referred to in the 1994 Directive. In particular, it was required 
to set out:
(b) The exact nature of the right which is the subject of the agreement and, if the 
accommodation concerned, or any of the accommodation in the pool of 
accommodation concerned, is situated in the territory of an EEA State, a 
clause setting out the conditions governing the exercise of that right within the 
territory of that State and if those conditions have been fulfilled or, if they have 
not, what conditions remain to be fulfilled.
(c) When the timeshare accommodation has been determined, an accurate 
description of that accommodation and its location.

(h) The exact period within which the right which is the subject of the agreement 
may be exercised and, if necessary, its duration; the date on which the 
offeree may start to exercise that right.
Further, section 1C of the 1992 Act stated that this information had to be included in the 
agreement itself and to not do so was an offence. However, nowhere in the 1992 Act can I 
see that an agreement was voidable should the information not be provided.
The 1992 Act also provides that there is a fourteen-day cancellation period for all 
timeshares, save for ones in which the information in Schedule 1 was not provided, in which 
case the period was three months and ten days.
Having considered both the 1992 Act and the 1994 Directive at length, I do not think it 
makes the timeshare agreement voidable as is suggested. As I noted in my provisional 
decision, points based or floating week timeshares were common models that had not been prohibited in English law. Rather, the 1992 Act makes provision for timeshare 
accommodation being from a pool of accommodation, so I think it was drafted with those 
types of arrangement in mind. Nothing in the 1992 Act makes me think selling those types of 
products was prohibited. So, I do not think all timeshare agreements had to refer to a 
specified apartment or set week to comply with the 1992 Act. 3
Mr C signed the timeshare purchase agreement to say that he had been provided with a 
Disclosure Document, Inventory Schedule, Annual Global Reservations Directory, Resort 
Disclosure Booklet as well as other rules that governed the functioning of the timeshare 
agreement. So, I think it possible he was given information that complied with Schedule 1 of 
the 1992 Act. But I do not need to make a finding on that point as, even if he was not given 
that information, I do not think that means the timeshare agreement was voidable for the 
reasons I gave above. 
In Mr Cs case, BPF made payment to the supplier more than fourteen days after the 
agreement was taken out, but within three months and ten days of the sale. Such a payment 
would have been allowed had the timeshare provider provided the information required 
under Schedule 1 of the 1992 Act. But again, I need not make a finding on whether that 
information was supplied, as I do not think the agreement became voidable if payment was 
taken too early under the provisions of the 1992 Act.
Finally, I do not think that the Spanish judgment I have been asked to consider helps me 
determine the outcome of Mr Cs claim. That judgment dealt with a different timeshare 
agreement, governed by a different legal jurisdiction  Mr C, an English resident, took out a 
timeshare agreement governed by English law. Nothing in the 1994 Directive makes me 
think an English court would come to the conclusion Mr Cs timeshare agreement was 
voidable.
In summary, I think Mr C took out a timeshare agreement that was fairly straightforward. His 
agreement entitled him to stay at a number of different properties run by the timeshare 
provider. Each property had a different cost in points and he had 2,000 points to use in 
each year. Mr C was able to book from 2011 onwards and every year he had to pay 
maintenance fees to access his points. None of this was in any way unusual or unclear, in 
my view, so I do not think there was any reason why this agreement was voidable for the 
reasons put forward by SL.
Did Mr C make his claim in time?
As explained above, I do not think the timeshare agreement, and related credit agreement, 
were voidable. I also set out in my provisional decision that I thought Mr Cs claims made 
under the CCA had been made too late and outside of the limitation periods. That finding is 
not to be confused with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Dispute Resolution Rules 
(DISP) that set out when the Financial Ombudsman Service can consider complaints about 
the activities of firms the FCA regulates.
Mr C made claims under the CCA. Such claims are first made to the responsible business 
and, if the business does not accept them, a consumer has several options. They could refer 
his claim to a court and ask a judge to determine it, or, as has happened in this case, they 
could ask our service to consider a complaint about the business decision to turn down their 
claim.
3 Further, these types of agreements fell within the definition of a timeshare contained within the 
Timeshare Regulations 2010, so they were not prohibited either before or after Mr Cs saleDISP says that a consumer has six years in which to complain about an event or, if longer, 
three years after they realised or ought reasonable to have realised that they had a reason 
to complain. Those rules apply to complaints about regulated financial activities, which in the 
current context, is the way in which BPF exercised its rights and duties under a regulated 
agreement when it assessed the CCA claims.  
The claim was dealt with less than six years before the complaint was referred to our 
service. Further, while there was more than six years between the sale and the claim, I 
cannot see anything that would have triggered Mr C to realise he had a possible reason to 
complain about the things he did before he spoke with SL. However, Mr C made legal claims 
to BPF and, when it considered those claims, it relied on defences available under the LA. 
So that is why I have considered that legislation.
The LA does not have a provision allowing any claim to be brought within three years of a 
claimant realising they could issue legal proceedings. In some circumstances, the limitation 
period can be extended when a claimant first had the knowledge required to make a claim 
after the date the cause of action actually accrued. For example, s.14A LA deals with 
Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to cause of action are not 
known at date of accrual.
For s.14A LA to apply, a claimant must have a cause in negligence against the alleged 
defendant, which means BPF would have to owe a duty of care to Mr C to give rise to such a 
claim. I have thought about whether BPF had such a duty protect its customers from 
purchasing timeshare products that were non-compliant with the 1994 Directive with credit, 
by undertaking due diligence into the timeshare providers sales process. Having done so, I 
am not persuaded that such a duty can be established.
However, in any event and for the reasons set out above, I do not think the agreement was 
non-complaint with the directive. So it follows that any claim would not likely succeed, even if 
it had been made within the limitation period. 
Conclusion
For the reasons set out above, I think BPF acted fairly in turning down Mr Cs claims under 
s.75 and s.140A CCA as they were brought too late. I do not think the loan agreement was 
voidable, nor do I think there is any evidence to suggest the lending was irresponsible or 
unaffordable.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2022.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman