DRN-2795640
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy with the way that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) 
handled a claim under their home insurance policy for subsidence and the settlement it 
offered them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H own a residential property which they let out. They made a claim to RSA for 
subsidence in 2015. 
RSA appointed a loss adjuster to manage the claim. It carried out some investigations and 
found that tree roots had caused the clay soil to shrink. That in turn had caused the property 
to subside. Some of the vegetation was on neighbouring land.
Mr and Mrs H told RSA that in February 2017 long-standing tenants moved out due to the 
disruption of the repairs. Mr and Mrs H carried out some repairs and let the property again 
from July 2017 to new tenants. Those tenants left in October 2018.
In 2019 Mr and Mrs H complained to RSA about the fact that RSA hadnt paid their claim for 
loss of rent, its delays and poor communication. RSA issued a final response in respect of 
their complaint on 10 April 2019. It said the loss adjuster had told them what was needed to 
bring a claim for loss of rent. It thought the property could be lived in and offered to carry out 
some temporary repairs if Mr and Mrs H wished. It explained that it was negotiating with their 
neighbours about the offending vegetation. The vegetation was cut down later that year.
As the property was still moving, RSA decided it needed to be underpinned. RSA accepted 
that the property couldnt be re-let until it had been underpinned. That work was due to start 
in early 2021. So it agreed to pay loss of rent and council tax from November 2020.
Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service. RSA agreed that we could consider 
how the claim had been handled since February 2019. Our investigator upheld the complaint 
in part. He thought RSA should pay £150 compensation for poor communication. As Mr and 
Mrs H didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The property has now been vacant since October 2018. The monthly rent when the property 
was last let was £750. Mr and Mrs H have also had to pay council tax while the property was 
unlet. So understandably the loss of rent claim is very important to them.
Their policy covers them for loss of rent if the property is damaged by subsidence and as a 
result it cant be lived in. The property has clearly been damaged by subsidence. It had 
cracks in several rooms and a sloping floor. I need to decide whether it was unable to be 
lived in.
One letting agent said:
..we as an agency would not bring this property to market, for two reasons, firstly the cracks 
are more than surface cracks and to a less informed individual in such matters would be very 
disconcerted by their existence and inevitable result in the tenant/s wanting to serve notice 
or not want to move into the property in the first place and move to a property where they 
can reside with complete peace of mind, secondly as discussed a rent reduction would not 
be the magic wand, merely attracting tenants that at the lower rent would not appreciate the 
higher running costs of such a larger property with such things as high heating bills
Another letting agent told RSA they wouldnt let the property while there was a claim.
RSA appears to have accepted that the property wasnt an attractive option to tenants and 
offered to carry out some temporary repairs to make the property more lettable. These seem 
to have consisted of an offer to fill in the cracks in the wall and redecorate. 
Unfortunately for Mr and Mrs H, the fact that the property wasnt an attractive letting 
proposition doesnt mean that it couldnt be lived in. In fact it was lived in during part of the 
claim. 
The tenant who moved out in 2017 said they left when the flat could no longer be adapted 
to meet the disability needs of my husband and repairs needed to be undertaken to the 
bedroom. 
The tenant who moved out in October 2018 referred to problems with mould in the bedroom 
and high electricity bills because of heat escaping through the cracks.
Ive not seen any evidence that the property facilities were in any way limited  for example 
that the utilities werent working or problems using the kitchen and bathroom. There was 
also nothing to suggest the property was unsafe. It seems to me that initially the letting 
agents and Mr and Mrs H made the choice not to re-market the property for letting. Mr and 
Mrs H didnt take up RSAs offer of filling in the cracks which would have made the property 
more appealing to potential tenants and helped minimise heat loss. RSA also suggested 
letting the property at a reduced rent to mitigate their loss. Again Mr and Mrs H dont seem 
to have tested the market with this option after discussing it with their agent. So Im not 
persuaded that RSA treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly in not paying their loss of rent claim until 
it became clear that the property would have to be underpinned. At that point Mrs H 
provided evidence that the property was unable to be let and temporary repairs were no 
longer an option as the property was due to be underpinned.
Its generally acknowledged that subsidence claims can take a long time, as they often 
involve things like monitoring to measure movement and determine stability over an 
extended period. But Ive taken a closer look to see if RSA acted unreasonably or took an 
excessive amount of time. From the evidence Ive seen, from 2019 there were some delays 
in reaching agreement with Mr and Mrs Hs neighbour to deal with the vegetation and in 
getting a quote for the underpinning work. Although I accept the claim has taken a long time, 
I dont consider that RSA has taken an unreasonable amount of time overall, given the work 
and monitoring that was necessary on the claim and the delays that were outside its control. 
Where I think RSA could have handled the claim better is in explaining to Mr and Mrs H the 
policy cover in respect of loss of rent, in particular that the property had to be uninhabitable. 
They raised this issue with RSA many times and seemed to have continued to hope that 
their claim would eventually be paid.Putting things right
To put things right I think RSA should pay £150 to Mr and Mrs H to compensate them for its 
poor communication.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to pay £150 
compensation to Mr and Mrs H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman