DRN-3525347
The complaint
Mr W has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
What happened
Mr W bought a biomass boiler for his home in 2015 from a supplier. The purchase was part-
funded by his credit card from Co-op, which is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of 
the supplier under Section 75. 
In this case, that relates to the installer allegedly misleading Mr W into believing that the 
payments he would receive over seven years through the Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) 
scheme would be about twice as much as they are  and significantly more than the cost of 
the biomass boiler. But the actual RHI payments may be slightly less than the cost of the 
biomass boiler. Mr W says he was attracted to the purchase because of the profit he would 
receive on top of the cost. He made a claim to Co-op on the basis that the RHI payments 
were misrepresented to him by the supplier. 
Co-op responded to the claim to reject it because the 7-year RHI payment period was not 
over, so Mr Ws alleged loss had not yet fully crystallised to allow any loss to be calculated. 
Mr W then made a complaint about that decision. Co-op issued a final response saying that 
it didnt believe there had been a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier, 
since it only provided an estimate for the RHI payment, not a guarantee. And it would be 
impossible to confirm any loss at this time due to the RHI payments being ongoing and 
future payments being affected by inflation. 
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought that the likely 
RHI payments from the biomass boiler were mis-represented to Mr W, and that fair redress 
would be for the biomass boiler to cost Mr W no more than a fair estimate of the RHI 
payments he would receive. Our investigator also said that Co-op should pay Mr W £200 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its handling of the claim. 
Mr W felt that he should receive more redress. He wanted to be paid the difference between 
what he will receive from the RHI and what he was told he would receive by the supplier, 
plus fees he paid for a survey and a solicitor when attempting to claim from the supplier prior 
to it entering liquidation.
Because our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint, Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for much the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence 
supports the conclusion that a misrepresentation took place. The supplier miscalculated the 
RHI payments based on incorrect data, which I think it ought to have realised was clearly 
wrong. And Mr W agreed to the purchase on the basis of what he was told. 
The RHI payment is calculated based on the heat demand of the home. This is shown on the 
Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) and is calculated using, amongst other things, the 
floor area of the property. In this case the floor area on the EPC was about twice the floor 
area of Mr Ws property. 
Given the supplier attended Mr Ws home, wouldve understood how the calculations worked 
and is likely to have had experience of such calculations in similar-sized properties, I think 
the supplier ought to have realised the calculation was wrong. In any case, I would expect an 
estimate to be reasonably accurate  but the estimated RHI payments given to Mr W at the 
time of sale were not.
Ive thought about what Co-op has said about future RHI payments being uncertain. But I 
think it would be appropriate to ascertain, using reasonable assumptions about future 
inflation rates, what payments Mr W is likely to receive. This will allow the claim and 
complaint to be settled now, assuming Mr W accepts my decision, rather Mr W having to 
come back to Co-op in the future. This will give Mr W and Co-op certainty about the outcome 
of the claim, and hopefully help Mr W to move on from this episode  which has taken a lot 
of his time over many years. 
I think Co-op ought to have accepted the claim initially, since the estimated RHI payments 
calculated by the supplier were clearly a misrepresentation, being significantly incorrect and 
unrealistic. So, I think that Co-op didnt treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Co-
op did wrong. And this means that it should put things right. 
To put things right I am not asking Co-op to make the misrepresentation true  but rather to 
ensure that Mr W does not suffer a loss  that is, that what he pays for the biomass boiler 
does not exceed the RHI payments hell receive. And that he receives some compensation 
to recognise the trouble and upset caused to him by Co-ops handling of the claim.
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed with this. But the usual remedy in a case like this 
would be for the cost of the purchase to be refunded and the product to be returned. That is 
impractical in this case, since it would involve significant cost and disruption and would still 
not give Mr W what he wants. But, ultimately, the usual remedy would result in Mr W 
suffering no loss. So, the remedy I have decided on here results in the same financial 
outcome for Mr W. I appreciate Mr W claimed for some other costs he incurred in relation to 
this matter, but I am not persuaded that Co-op should pay these. 
I am awarding some additional compensation to recognise the trouble and upset caused by 
Co-ops handling of the claim  essentially that it rejected the claim when I think it shouldnt 
have. I appreciate Mr W put in a lot of time and effort with other companies and 
organisations because of the underlying problem. But I dont have the power to direct Co-op 
to compensate him for that, nor would I think it reasonable to do so. 
Putting things right
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for Co-op to put things right by:
1. Calculating all RHI payments Mr W has received to the date of settlement.
2. Calculating the likely future RHI payments Mr W will receive (using reasonable 
assumptions where necessary).3. Adding 1. and 2. together to get a total benefit.
4. Calculating the difference between the total benefit in 3. and the amount Mr W paid 
for the installation.
5. Calculating interest at 8% simple per year on 4. from the time Mr W made the 
payment/s until the date of settlement.
6. Adding the amount in 4. And 5. together and paying this sum to Mr W, along with an 
additional £200 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by Co-ops handling 
off the claim.
Mr W should provide any evidence to Co-op that it requires to calculate the settlement, such 
as statements showing the RHI payments he has received. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. The Co-operative Bank Plc 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman