DRN-3328258
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) continued to contact and harass her 
for repayments to her personal loan despite a debt management plan having been agreed.   
What happened
Mrs H applied to Santander for a personal loan of £3,000 in July 2019. Santander assessed 
and agreed to provide the loan with monthly repayments of £108.89 over three years.
In early 2021, Mrs H found herself unable to sustainably maintain the agreed loan 
repayments due to a change in her financial circumstances. So, in early March 2021, she 
called Santander. She explained that she was seeking help and support from a debt 
advisory service. Santander agreed to cancel her loan repayment direct debit and await 
details of a payment offer from her debt advisor.
Mrs H continued to contact Santander between March and May 2021 in an attempt to agree 
a reduced payment plan. But, despite her attempts, she continued to receive 
communications from them relating to the arrears on her loan. Mrs H found this very 
stressful and worrying given she was doing her best to keep them informed of her situation.
In April 2021, Santander confirmed to Mrs H theyd received her payment offer from her debt 
advisor. But this hadnt included a letter of authority from her. Theyd responded to the debt 
advisor requesting this. Mrs H continued to receive letters and communications from 
Santander about the arrears on her loan.
Mrs H contacted them again at the end of April 2021 to complain. She told them she was 
unhappy with them continually contacting her and said her advisor was still awaiting 
Santanders confirmation that a payment plan had been agreed.
Santander responded to Mrs Hs complaint in early May 2021. They said they had an 
obligation to ensure she maintained her loan repayments as failure to do so could affect her 
credit file. They also said they were obliged to ensure that didnt happen and to offer 
assistance where appropriate. They confirmed Mrs Hs loan was on hold while they reviewed 
the offer received from her debt advisor.
Santander wrote to Mrs H again in May 2021 to confirm theyd received payment proposals 
from her debt advisor to pay £61 each month under a debt management plan. 
Unhappy with Santanders original response to her complaint, Mrs H contacted them again. 
Santander looked at Mrs Hs complaint further and wrote to her on 10 June 2021. They 
agreed that Mrs Hs complaint hadnt been considered fully. They said that Mrs H shouldve 
been told in March 2021 that they required a letter of authority, signed by her, from her debt 
advisor. This is what had caused the delays. Further, they thought a complaint should have 
been raised sooner in April as a result of Mrs Hs calls to them.
Santander placed Mrs Hs loan on hold for 30 days to allow time for an arrangement to be 
set up. To apologise for their mistakes, Santander credited £100 to Mrs Hs bank account. 
But Mrs H continued to receive letters, texts, emails and calls about the arrears on her loan. 
She found this increasingly stressful and worrying. So, she decided to refer her complaint to 
this service.
While our investigator considered Mrs Hs complaint, Santander contacted this service and 
said that following agreement of the payment plan proposed by her debt advisor, her 
account had been incorrectly categorised within their systems. This led to the continued 
contact she experienced. Santander confirmed this shouldnt have happened and apologised 
for the distress this had caused. They offered further compensation of £200.  
Having considered all the circumstances here, our investigator thought Santanders further 
offer appeared fair and reasonable. But Mrs H didnt agree. She thought Santanders offer 
didnt reflect the level of stress and worry theyd caused her.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Hs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, it seems to me that Mrs H has, at all times, tried to maintain an ongoing 
dialogue with Santander in an attempt to reach a satisfactory conclusion and agreement. 
She sought advice and support from a recognised debt advisory service, which I think was 
the right thing for her to do. So, its unfortunate that it appears various mistakes and errors 
by Santander have resulted in more stress and worry for Mrs H than was necessary.
At the outset, it appears Santander failed to inform Mrs H that she would need to provide her 
debt advisor with a letter of authority before they could act on her behalf. But, as this is 
normal practice, I would also have expected her debt advisor to be aware of that 
requirement. This appears to be the main reason why there were delays in accepting the 
debt management plan proposed. And unfortunately, it appears Mrs H bore the brunt of this.
Santander are right to say that when contractual loan repayments are not being maintained, 
they have a regulatory obligation to ensure that Mrs H is fully aware of the potential 
consequences, including the impact that might have on her credit file. Equally, I think 
Santander were made aware of her circumstances, and her intentions to seek support from 
a debt advisory service in a timely manner.
Santander ultimately paid compensation to Mrs H to reflect the concern this caused her. And 
that amount feels fair to me here. But unfortunately, it appears Santander made further 
mistakes. Having considered Mrs Hs complaint again in June 2021, they placed a 30 day 
hold on her account. But this was after the debt management plan payments of £61 had 
been agreed. This had the effect of recategorising Mrs Hs loan account in their internal 
systems. As a result, once the 30-day hold was lifted, Mrs Hs loan was handled under 
Santanders normal collections process rather than where a debt management plan had 
been agreed through a debt advisor. Ultimately, this is what led to the subsequent repeated 
contacts and communications from them.
Santander have admitted they got this wrong. Theyve offered their sincere apologies to Mrs 
H for their mistake here. And in recognition of the further distress and inconvenience this 
caused, theyve offered to pay additional compensation to Mrs H of £200.
Compensation is a personal thing. What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be 
considered so by another. Mrs H did experience some inconvenience and distress. And Im 
aware that Mrs H was also experiencing other personal and health challenges at the time. 
But, I can only consider the affect of Santanders own actions. They wouldnt have had any 
control over other challenges Mrs H may have been facing. I think the amount offered feels 
fair in all the circumstances here. I appreciate that Mrs H doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of 
this service to make awards in order to penalise Santander for their mistakes. Any award is 
considered based upon the impact Santanders mistake had upon her. And I think their offer 
does that here.Santander have since placed Mrs Hs loan in default and recorded this on her credit file. 
While they accepted the offer of payments under a debt management plan, this doesnt 
constitute a formal variation of the original loan agreement. Its merely an acceptance of 
what Mrs H can realistically and sustainably afford to pay. But this does mean that Mrs H 
wasnt meeting her contractual payment obligations. I would expect her debt advisor to have 
made her aware of this. 
The Information Commissioners Office (ICO) issue guidance and principles for the reporting 
of arrears, arrangements and defaults (PRAAD) at credit reference agencies. It says that as 
a general guide, a default may be recorded when you are three months in arrears, and 
normally by the time you are six months in arrears. Santanders actions appear to comply 
with these guidelines as Mrs H was accumulating arrears by not making her contractual 
repayments in full. So, I cant reasonably say that theyve done anything wrong here.
Mrs Hs loan has since been cancelled and any further interest costs frozen. Santander have 
passed the collection of the remaining debt to an agency. They are entitled to do that, and I 
would recommend Mrs H liaise with the debt collection agency to agree a repayment plan 
going forward, if she hasnt already done so. Santander have confirmed they see no reason 
why the debt collection agency wouldnt agree to maintain the previously proposed 
arrangement of £61 a month.
Mrs H has subsequently raised concerns about a problem she experienced with maintaining 
the agreed payments of £61 when she transferred her Santander current account to another 
bank. But as this doesnt form part of the original complaint to Santander that was referred to 
this service, Im unable to consider this further. If Mrs H wishes to pursue this, she will need 
to formally raise this as a separate complaint with Santander first, so they are given the 
opportunity to investigate and respond.
I shall reflect Santanders offer to pay a further £200 in my final decision. Should Mrs H 
choose to accept this, Santander have agreed that this can either be paid direct to her or 
used in reduction of her outstanding debt, as she prefers.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I require Santander UK Plc to pay compensation of £200 to Mrs H.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman