DRN-3104741
The complaint
Mr B complained that UK Credit Limited irresponsibly provided him with an unaffordable 
loan.
What happened
UK Credit provided Mr B with a loan as follows: 
Date 
takenLoan 
amount Term 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentInterest 
(APR)Total 
amount 
repayable 
03/09/17 £5,000 36 £219.16 37.8% £7,889.76
Mr B said, through a representative, that UK Credit failed to carry out effective affordability 
checks prior to lending which wouldve shown that he was struggling to maintain his existing 
debts and that he wasnt in a position to repay the loan sustainably over the full term.
When Mr B complained to UK Credit it didnt uphold his complaint.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint. He didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr B disagrees with our investigator and he has asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. So the complaint comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our 
website and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. There are some general 
principles and questions I need to think about when deciding whether to uphold this 
complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. This should include 
more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a strict pounds and pence 
calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that the borrower can 
sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For 
example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Mr B and thought carefully about the following key questions:
- Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Bs loan 
application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way? If 
not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr B about his income and expenses before it 
agreed the loan. It looked at a recent payslip to see what Mr  B was earning and it checked 
Mr Bs credit file to understand his existing monthly credit commitments and credit history. 
UK Credit was satisfied that its checks showed that it could rely on the monthly income of 
£1,463 that Mr B had declared. Mr B had said he paid £150 towards rent/board and his 
portion of the household bills. 
When assessing affordability, UK Credit took into account statistical data that showed what 
someone in Mr Bs circumstances would typically need to pay each month. As a result, UK 
Credit boosted Mr Bs declared expenses figure and allowed for him spending a further 
£119.64 out of his take home pay on regular outgoings. UK Credit saw from its own credit 
checks that Mr B was already spending around £398 on his existing credit commitments. So 
UK Credit worked out that Mr B should still have around £796 spare cash left over each 
month and concluded that this meant the monthly repayments for its loan were affordable for 
Mr B. 
UK Credit called Mr B to talk him through the loan details and asked him if he was happy to 
proceed or if he had any further questions. I've listened carefully to the call recording  after 
being given full details of the loan costs and the monthly repayments he would have to 
make, as well as being told what could happen if the loan payments werent made on time, 
Mr B went ahead with setting up the bank arrangements for the loan. I think that UK Credits income and expenditure calculation was broadly fair and reasonable - 
and on these figures alone, I can see why it concluded that the loan looked potentially 
affordable for Mr B. But given the loan term and amount and bearing in mind that the 
monthly repayments Mr B would need to make towards his credit would be a significant 
proportion of his take home pay, I think UK Credit ought to have had concerns about Mr Bs 
finances. 
Mr B had declared to UK Credit that he had a comfortable amount of disposable income. But 
UK Credit saw from its own credit checks that, despite his apparently modest outgoings, 
Mr B had also taken out a £10,000 loan just six months or so earlier. I think Mr Bs need to 
borrow expensive credit looked potentially at odds with what UK Credit might reasonably 
have expected to see for someone who appeared to have the amount of surplus cash it 
worked out Mr B should have each month. This shouldve alerted UK Credit to the possibility 
that Mr B might be having problems managing his money. Like our investigator, I think UK 
Credit ought to have been concerned enough to do more in-depth checks before it agreed to 
provide this loan.   
To my mind, UK Credits checks should have included a full review of Mr Bs financial 
circumstances and, in particular, further verification of his expenditure so it could ensure that 
the loan repayments should be affordable over the term of the loan. 
But although I dont think the checks UK Credit did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, 
thats not enough of a reason on its own for me to be able to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I also 
need to be able to say that if UK Credit had done what I consider to be proportionate checks, 
these would have shown UK Credit that Mr B couldnt sustainably afford the repayments. 
Mr B has sent me bank statements and his own credit report. So Ive looked through these to 
see what UK Credit was likely to have found out about his overall financial situation had it 
carried out more in-depth checks. 
I havent seen anything in the information available to me which shows UK Credit would 
have decided not to agree this loan had it done so. 
Mr B was £41 overdrawn on a current account he appeared to be no longer using, but I dont 
think that would have been a reason not to lend to him. 
And the bank account his pay went into and out of which he withdrew money seemed to be 
well managed and maintained in credit. So that didnt suggest he was in serious financial 
difficulty.
Thinking about everything, I am unable to safely conclude that UK Credit gave Mr B a loan 
that it should have realised was unaffordable for him.
I can see that Mr B took out other loans with other high cost lenders after taking out this 
loan, and that he had problems repaying those loans. But this doesnt affect the outcome of 
this complaint against UK Credit. 
And for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr B, but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions. And if Mr B would 
like help to manage his finances or to speak to someone about his situation generally, 
theres more information about how to get free debt advice and other help on our website  
or we can provide contact details if he gives us a call. My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman