DRN-1933914
 
The complaint
Miss S complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos) 
accepted her application for a store card which she couldnt afford.
What happened
Miss S applied for the Argos store card in April 2016. Miss S explained she completed a 
form and it was approved. She said she wasnt told about the interest rate or credit limit. She 
also explained she was unemployed at the time and was only receiving benefits as an 
income. Miss S said she already had a credit card with debt outstanding as well as car 
finance, so she couldnt afford this. The store card had a limit of £750.
In September 2016, Argos wrote to Miss S offering to increase her credit limit to £900. It 
gave her the date the increase would happen and an option to have the increase applied 
earlier, or not at all. Miss S spoke to Argos and asked for the increase to be applied earlier. 
Miss S account went into arrears in January 2017. The debt was later sold to a third party.
Argos said it carried out credit searches on Miss S and these came back showing  the credit 
limit was affordable. It had on record that Miss S said she was employed part-time. It said 
the increase was offered based on the way Miss S had managed her account.
Our investigator felt Argos had done enough here. She explained that the credit limit was 
fairly low, so the checks Argos had carried out were proportionate. The investigator also 
explained that Miss S statements showed there may have been additional income aside 
from the benefits she received, and there wasnt any record of paying her other debts in the 
statements she provided. So, there wasnt anything to suggest the lending was unaffordable 
at the time, or that Argos needed to do more.
Miss S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. She said she didnt 
have any other income and the lending was unaffordable. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to determine whether Argos has done something wrong, and I dont think it 
has. Ill explain why.
A lender must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks when deciding whether to 
lend. When Miss S applied for her store card she told Argos that she had a part-time job and 
some unsecured debt. Miss S has told us that she was unemployed and receiving benefits at 
the time. Ive seen the information that Argos had and I dont think it had any reason to doubt 
what Miss S had said about having a job. Argos didnt check Miss S bank statements. But 
Ive seen these statements from the time and she had regular payments being transferred 
into her account that had the reference pay. Miss S has explained this was money from her 
father to help her out. This may have been the case, but even if Argos had checked this, I 
dont think it wouldve been alerted that Miss S couldnt afford the store card, or that she 
wasnt working part-time.
The checks that Argos completed were credit searches. It checked information about Miss S 
to find out how she manages credit. Ive seen the results and Miss S fit within the criteria to 
lend. Whilst in some cases I wouldve wanted to see more thorough checks, in this case the 
credit limit was relatively low - £750. So, I do think the checks Argos did were proportionate 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Argos increased Miss S limit in September by £150. This was based on the way she had 
managed her account to date. Ive had a look at Miss S statements for the account. Up to 
that point she had kept well within her limit, and she had paid off her purchase that she had 
made before she incurred interest. So, I dont think there was anything to alert Argos to her 
not being able to afford this small increase in credit. And I dont think it shouldve done 
anything more to check this at this time.
It was only after this that Miss S purchased goods up to her limit amount, and then didnt 
make her repayments when she should have. At this point I can see Argos froze interest and 
charges before the account was passed to collections. I can see Miss S has suffered 
financial difficulty and is in a difficult situation. But I cant see that Argos shouldve done any 
additional checks at the time Miss S applied for the store card, or that this lending was 
unaffordable for Miss S at the time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman