DRN-2317589
The complaint
Mr F complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Startline Motor Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A used car was supplied to Mr F under a hire purchase agreement with Startline that he 
electronically signed in January 2020. The price of the car was £9,990, Mr F paid a deposit 
of £700 and agreed to make 59 monthly payments of £234.65 and a final payment of 
£244.65 for the car to be supplied to him. 
There were some issues with the car in February 2020 so he returned the car to the dealer 
but it was unable to repair it. The car was inspected by an independent expert in March 2020 
who concluded that there was a fault with the coolant system and suspension which 
wouldve been present when the car was supplied to Mr F. 
It was accepted that Mr F could reject the car but there was no agreement about the amount 
that should be refunded to him so he complained to Startline. Mr F received a refund of his 
deposit and monthly payments totalling £320.69  but Startline kept £149.61 as payment for 
the use that hed had from the car and said that it wasnt liable for the other costs that Mr F 
had claimed.
Mr F wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service. Our investigator 
recommended that his complaint should be upheld in part. He said that Mr F had covered 
around 1,500 miles in the car so it was reasonable to expect him to incur some running costs 
for that mileage  and he didnt think it was reasonable to ask Startline to cover the cost of 
the car insurance, car tax, oil, fuel and wipers. He thought that the £149.61 retained from the 
monthly payments represented a fair usage charge for the 1,500 miles covered. He didnt 
think it would be fair to ask Startline to refund the amount paid for the car mats as they were 
a non-essential item for the car. But he thought that Startline should reimburse Mr F for the 
£35 cost of the diagnostic work and the £66 that he paid for the wheels to be realigned due 
to the handling issues with the car. 
Startline accepted those recommendations and £101 was paid to Mr F. Mr F has asked for 
his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman but Startline says that he accepted the 
investigators recommendations and the payment of £101.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Startline, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr F- whether or not it was of satisfactory 
quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age and mileage 
of the car and the price that was paid for it;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mr F was nearly seven years old and had been driven for 
64,800  but its been accepted that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to him so hes returned the car and the hire purchase agreement has ended;
Mr F says that he was going to be charged for excess mileage and damage to the 
car  but Ive seen no evidence to show that any such charges were made to him;
Mr F has now received a refund of his deposit and monthly payments totalling 
£320.69 and reimbursement of the diagnostic costs and wheel alignment costs 
totalling £101;
the cars mileage at the time of the independent inspection was 66,350 so hed been 
able to drive about 1,500 miles in it - Startline has kept monthly payments totalling 
£149.61 as payment for that use  and I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances;
the cost of car insurance, car tax, fuel and oil are normal running costs of a car and 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Startline to 
reimburse Mr F for the costs of those items that hes incurred;
Mr F has also asked to be reimbursed for the cost of replacement wipers and new 
floor mats  but wipers are a wear and tear item and I consider that it was his choice 
to buy replacement floor mats  I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for 
me to require Startline to reimburse him for the cost of those items; and
I sympathise with Mr F for the issues that hes had with the car and I uphold his 
complaint in part as I agree with the investigator that Startline should have 
reimbursed him for the cost of the diagnostic work and the wheel alignment  but, as 
those costs have now been reimbursed to him, I dont consider that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Startline to pay any further amounts to him or to take 
any other action in response to his complaint.
Putting things right
I find that Mr Fs complaint should be upheld in part but, as Startline has already refunded to 
him the £101 that was recommended by the investigator, I dont consider that it would be fair 
or reasonable for me to require it to take any further action in response to his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Fs complaint in part but I dont require Startline to take any 
further action.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman