DRN-3194513
The complaint
Miss S, through her representative, complains that S.D. Taylor Limited, trading as Loans at 
Home (LAH), lent to her irresponsibly. 
What happened
Using information from LAHs records, here is a brief table of the approved loans. 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Weekly 
InstalmentsAmount Highest Combined 
Weekly Repayment
1 02/01/2019 04/09/2019 45 £1,000.00 £40.00
2 10/04/2019 Outstanding 46 £500.00 £60.00
3 04/09/2019 Outstanding 46 £1,000.00 £60.00
Miss S entered an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) in November 2019 and her 
Insolvency Practitioner (IP) has been in touch with this Service. Miss S representative has 
sent to us the detailed documents relating to that IVA. Ill come back to what this means for 
this complaint later in the decision.
Miss S complained to LAH in November 2020. LAH looked at her complaint and issued 
Miss S with its final response letter (FRL) dated April 2021. In that FRL it explained why it did 
think that it should recompense her for loans 2 and 3. Its explanation was that it had been 
unable to conclude that the affordability checks were sufficient therefore I am upholding your 
clients complaint in relation to loans 2 and 3.
It set out its calculations as to what the refund figure would look like. As Miss S had not 
repaid all of loans 2 and 3 then the calculated redress when set-off against the money LAHs 
records showed she owed to it led to Miss S still owing LAH money. 
Through her representative, Miss S referred her complaint to this Service in April 2021. 
One of our adjudicators, having assumed that Miss S did not wish to proceed with the offer 
in LAHs response letter, proceeded to review the complaint. She felt that LAHs outcome 
was the right one. Our adjudicator did think that additional checks for loan 1 ought to have 
been carried out but in the absence of additional financial information from Miss S then she 
was not able to assess what those additional checks may have revealed. So, she did not 
think that LAH needed to do anything in relation to loan 1. 
As LAHs resolution outlined in its April 2021 FRL was that which our adjudicator felt was the 
correct way forward to resolve this complaint, officially that is termed as a non-uphold, 
meaning its for LAH and Miss S to finalise the details as set out in the FRL. 
Miss S representative has not been able to get any response from its client, Miss S, and so 
to finalise the complaint I have been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several different 
things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. 
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer. 
LAH was required to establish whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. The customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, and without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss S complaint.
Having looked at all the details surrounding Miss S application for Loan 1, it may have 
warranted additional checks to have been carried out by LAH. But as our adjudicator said, 
without additional evidence about Miss S financial position at the time she applied for loan 1 
then I cannot come to a conclusion about it. And the Claim Audit Form Miss S completed for 
her representative would not be enough for me to rely on without more information.
So, I do not uphold loan 1. 
I understand Loan 1 has been repaid. 
LAH has said that it should put things right for loans 2 and 3 and so I do not need to look into 
the details and I endorse that as the resolution for this complaint. 
However, I do think that the redress has not been calculated entirely correctly and as the 
FRL was dated April 2021 likely will have to be re-done to update it.  I remind LAH of our 
approach and what wed expect a regulated business to calculate when arranging to 
recompense its customer which is that: 
a) any overpayment on loan 2 ought to attract 8% simple annual interest (less HMRC 
deduction) from the date it was paid by Miss S to the date of settlement, and b) those sums ought to be used by putting them towards the repayment of the loan 3 
capital after the loan3 interest and any charges have been removed, and
c) amendment of the credit file. 
In any event, a lot of these calculations are somewhat academic as Miss S is currently in an 
IVA. Having read the IVA documents its clear that loans 2 and 3 are included in that IVA. 
Miss S may have been paying some sums (even if very small) to LAH through that IVA and 
so may have to be accounted for. And this is another reason why I think that LAH may have 
to recalculate the redress for loans 2 and 3. 
And the LAH resolution likely means in practice that Miss S overall indebtedness through 
her IVA alter. But thats a matter for LAH, Miss S and her IP to consider. 
So, overall, and subject to the figures being updated and LAH proceeding on the basis its 
aware of the IVA and IP involvement, then I do not uphold this complaint about loan 1 and 
endorse the offer for loans 2 and 3.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Miss S complaint about loan 1 and I endorse the 
uphold on loans 2 and 3 subject to S.D. Taylor Limited recognising the IVA circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 January 2022. 
Acceptance of this decision will mean Miss S has accepted S.D.Taylor Limiteds offer in its 
FRL. 
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman