DRN-2875105
The complaint
L, a limited company, complains about delays when it asked Bank of Scotland plc for 
consent to a lease extension for a property on which it has a commercial mortgage. L is 
represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr C. L asks for compensation.
What happened
L has a commercial mortgage with Bank of Scotland. In late 2019 the tenant leasing the 
security property asked to extend the lease. Bank of Scotlands consent was needed for this. 
Ls solicitor didnt receive consent from Bank of Scotland until August 2020. After this, the 
tenants decided not to go ahead with the lease extension.
Bank of Scotland accepts it caused delays. It paid £420 towards Ls legal costs and £500 
compensation for the inconvenience. It wrote to the other parties involved saying it was 
responsible for the delay.
Our investigator said while Bank of Scotland made errors it had done enough to put matters 
right. He said it wasnt clear that L had a financial loss as it might well extend the lease or 
get another tenant before the lease expires in about 10 years.
L didnt agree. Mr C said L would have been financially better off with the extended lease.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C says the property forms part of his pension. While I appreciate the importance of this 
matter for Mr C, I must be clear that the complainant here is L, a limited company and a 
separate legal entity. I have to consider the effect of Bank of Scotlands error on L.  
The current lease of Ls property expires in 2031. Mr C says the tenant asked L to extend 
the lease. L agreed to extend the lease to 2040 with an option for the tenant to purchase the 
property at the end of the lease. L needed Bank of Scotlands consent to this, which it 
contacted Bank of Scotland about in December 2019. Bank of Scotland gave consent in 
August 2020. Mr C told Bank of Scotland in January 2021 that the tenant had pulled out of 
the lease extension and asked for further compensation. 
Mr C says Bank of Scotland should pay compensation for Ls financial loss. He says L lost 
future income from the lease extension and the property would be worth more if the lease 
had been extended. He said the tenant is particularly good and difficult to replace.
I understand Mr Cs frustration about what happened. But I dont think its fair and 
reasonable to require Bank of Scotland to pay compensation for Ls possible future financial 
loss. Ive explained why below.
Mr C says due to the time factor the tenant pulled out. Its not clear why the tenant decided 
not to go ahead with the lease extension after Bank of Scotland gave consent in August 
2020 if this was something it was keen to do. But even if matters had moved along without 
the delay caused by Bank of Scotland I cant be certain the lease would have been 
extended. Until the relevant documents are signed theres always the risk that a party might 
decide not to go ahead. 
The existing lease expires in 2031  about 10 years away. Theres time for the tenant to 
extend the lease, or for L to find a new tenant. I cant know if this would be on the same, 
better or worse terms for L than the proposed extension.
Mr C says the extended lease would have increased the sales value of the property. He 
provided an email from a surveyor estimating the possible increase in value. L would only 
have a financial loss due to changes in the value of the property if the property is sold. 
Theres no suggestion that L intends to sell the property in the near future. I cant know what 
changes there might be in the value of the property by the time is sold  including whether 
thered be another lease in place by then.
Mr C says the delays were embarrassing as the tenant might have thought he wasnt 
interested or had money problems. The complainant here is L. As a limited company L 
doesnt feel embarrassment. I cant usually award compensation for the embarrassment of a 
third party. I could award compensation to L for losses due to its reputation being damaged, 
but only if theres evidence of this (which isnt the case here). Bank of Scotland wrote to the 
other parties involved saying it was responsible for the delays and I think that was the right 
thing to do.
Theres no doubt that this matter caused inconvenience to Ls director (Mr C) as he had to 
contact Bank of Scotland a number of times to sort matters out. And L incurred additional 
legal costs. I think its right that Bank of Scotland paid compensation for this. Having 
considered what both parties have said, I think the compensation paid by Bank of Scotland 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman