The complaint
Mr M complains that about the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
when he tried to open an account.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr M and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any great 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr M wanted to open an account with Barclays and had an appointment in branch to do so. 
He was told which documents he needed to bring with him. When he attended for that 
appointment he wasnt able to open his account because he was told he didnt have the right 
identification and verification documentation. Mr M also said the adviser was late and he was 
kept waiting.
Barclays accepted the service was poor on this occasion and paid Mr M £75 in 
compensation. He was given another appointment, at a branch of his choosing, but again he 
was unable to open an account because Barclays say he didnt have the right documents. 
Mr M complains because he said he had spoken to Barclays on the phone and confirmed 
with them what documents he had prior to attending the appointment. So, Mr M wants more 
compensation because of the trouble and upset he was put to in attending a fruitless second 
appointment.
Barclays said that it accepted Mr M had spoken to them on the telephone and described 
what documentation he had at that point, but when he actually attended the appointment the 
documents werent right. So it said it couldnt open an account for him.
Mr M was unhappy with Barclayss final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. An investigator looked into the complaint, and 
having done so, came to the conclusion that Barclays hadnt done anything wrong.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view and asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
DRN-1990373I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that 
Barclays has done anything wrong and Ill explain why.
Mr M had an unfortunate experience when he first attended for an appointment which 
Barclays have accepted was poor service. They have compensated Mr M by paying him £75 
which he accepted. 
It is the second appointment which Mr M now complains about. First I should say that 
Barclays invited him to choose the branch he wanted to attend, because as I understand 
matters, he was unable to attend certain other branches, for reasons which I dont need to 
go into. The branch Mr M chose was over an hour away from where he lived, although 
Barclays have confirmed they have branches which are closer.
I have seen that Mr M did talk to an advisor on the telephone prior to attending his second 
appointment and the issue of documentation was discussed with him. The call recording 
reveals that Mr M told the advisor that he had a number of documents including photo ID, a 
gas bill, other bills, solicitors letters, tenancy agreement, benefit heath assessment letters 
and, doctors letters. The advisor did say that that sounded as though it was enough but 
would have to check and call him back, which he did. Unfortunately Mr M did not answer the 
call.
When Mr M attended his second appointment the advisor found that his documents werent 
sufficient to allow the account to be opened. Barclays said the doctors letter was not official 
as it was hand written, the tenancy agreement provided was incomplete, the utility document 
was in fact a letter from the provider and not a bill, and the benefit entitlement letter Mr M 
said he had was in fact a benefits health assessment letter, and as such not acceptable.
I feel I should clarify that any overall concerns about business process would need to be 
raised with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). They take a principles-based approach 
to conduct regulation, letting businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into 
the way they deal with customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this 
service under the Dispute Rules in the FCA Handbook. 
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check that Barclays followed its rules and 
procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers. 
Barclays has a policy and procedure for opening bank accounts for new customers. It has to 
comply with the regulations which require it to check a persons identity and it does that by 
asking each customer to provide certain documents from a prescribed list. These are things 
like a passport, driving licence, utility bill, benefits agency documentation. But not all 
documentation a person has will be acceptable and it is for Barclays to decide what is or isnt 
acceptable when they see it.
Having considered the evidence, and whilst I sympathise with Mr M as he had to make a 
long journey to his second appointment, I dont believe Barclays did anything wrong on that 
occasion. I accept that the documentation which he was required to take with him was 
discussed on the telephone prior to the appointment, and Mr M did his best to explain what 
he had, but the actual facts of the matter are that when he presented his documents they werent correct. Faced with incorrect documents I cant say Barclays were unreasonable or 
unfair in refusing to open an account for him.
Ive thought about Mr Ms first appointment too, even though he has accepted the 
compensation offered and paid to him. Barclays accepted that it didnt get things right there 
and because of that it paid him £75 
Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble and upset in similar 
cases. Ive also taken into account, in the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to 
have had on Mr M. Putting all of this into the balance I think what Barclays paid is fair and 
reasonable. And I think it is enough to put matters right.
So, although Mr M will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman