DRN-3279755
The complaint
Mr H complains that two fixed sum loan agreements with Future Finance Loan 
Corporation Limited (Future Finance) were unaffordable for him and that the loans 
shouldnt have been made to him.
What happened
Mr H signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Future Finance in October 2019 to provide 
him with £5,000 to go towards the cost of living expenses whilst studying for his degree. 
The loan was to be repaid by some low payments until Mr H graduated and then some 
larger payments when both parties anticipated that hed be working. The initial payments 
were £5 per month and sometime after graduation the payments were to rise to £238.70 
per month. 
Mr H signed a second fixed sum loan agreement with Future Finance in January 2020 to 
provide him with £6,000 to go towards the cost of living expenses whilst studying for his 
degree. The loan was to be repaid by some low payments until Mr H graduated and then 
some larger payments when both parties anticipated that hed be working. The initial 
payments were £5 per month and sometime after graduation the payments were to rise to 
£200.45 per month. 
In 2021, Mr H complained to Future Finance that the loans had been made to him 
irresponsibly. The two parties were unable to agree and so the complaint was looked at 
by this service. 
The investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Mr H disagreed 
with the investigator. And so, the complaint has passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider 
it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the 
right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats 
fair in the round.
Future Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr Hs complaint is that Future Finance made credit available that was unaffordable. 
Future Finance has explained that it carried out a credit check using a credit agency to 
determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Its possible that Future Finance failed 
to make adequate checks before providing Mr H with credit. But even if thats true, I dont 
think better enquiries would have caused Future Finance to think the lending was 
unaffordable.
I say this because the initial credit was relatively modest and the initial monthly payments 
were very modest. And the loan was to help Mr H afford his living costs. The larger 
monthly repayments were based on an estimated likely salary that Mr H may have 
attracted.
There seems nothing automatically unreasonable in this and Mr H agreed to it at the time 
of the lending decision. The credit information sourced by Future Finance suggested that 
Mr Hs existing borrowings, outside of the student loan, were small and that he had little or 
no adverse credit history at that time. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, and in the absence of any 
extra evidence from Mr H to the contrary, I have seen insufficient evidence to think that 
more thorough affordability checks would have led Future Finance to think that the credit it 
provided Mr H was unreasonable. Further, Im not persuaded that the way Mr H was 
managing his account or what Future Finance could see of his management of other 
credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did.
I have noted that Mr H thinks the interest attached to the loan is too high. The interest that 
would pertain to each loan was shown on each loan agreement and Mr H agreed to those 
when taking out the loans. So, I dont think that I have seen sufficient evidence to be able 
to uphold this complaint on this aspect of the complaint. 
Mr H thinks the loans were unreasonable as they are potentially not flexible enough to 
meet his needs should he stop his course of study or want to study for longer than he 
planned when taking out the loans. I note that Mr H received the credit the loans offered 
and it seems reasonable that those funds should be repaid. The loan agreements stated 
what the repayment terms were and I do not think that information was misleading or 
omitted pertinent information. And Mr H agreed to the repayment terms at the start of 
the loans. So, I do not think these are reasons for upholding his complaint. 
I know that Mr H will be disappointed with my decision. But I want Mr H to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman