DRN-3997391
The complaint
Ms C and Mr N are unhappy with the service provided by Fullbrook Associates Ltd when 
dealing their financial claims. 
What happened
Ms C complained to lender S directly on 14 May 2018 in respect of a chargeback claim for 
the sum of £3,720 paid by debit card. 
Mr N instructed company V to deal with a mis-sold timeshare claim in 2018. Mr N says he 
paid company V £5,700 by cheque for this service. Company V passed Mr Ns details to 
Fullbrook Associates. Fullbrook Associates successfully relinquished Mr Ns timeshare 
agreement May 2019.
In September 2020 Mr N and Ms C instructed Fullbrook Associates to deal with financial 
claims.
On 22 July 2021 Fullbrook Associates contacted lender S to explain client has a claim. 
(This was in respect of the chargeback claim against lender S). The case notes recorded 
email to client advising we have written to [lender S] to confirm position on the claim. On 23 
July lender S confirmed to Fullbrook Associates that the clients claim was for a debit card 
payment and will not be considered under s.75 CCA. 
On 15 September Fullbrook Associates asked Mr N for more information about whether the 
payment made to lender S was made by credit or debit card. On 12 October 2021 Mr N 
advised payment was made by debit card. Fullbrook Associates informed Mr N that they 
wouldnt be able to pursue this claim further and it was closed. 
In February 2023 Fullbrook Associates sent Mr N an email telling him about a recent 
success theyd had with a claim referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr N was 
unhappy that hed received this email and it wasnt about his own claim. 
Ms C and Mr N complained to Fullbrook Associates about the £5,700 Mr N had paid in 2018, 
the chargeback claim that they didnt progress, and that theyd sent Mr N an email telling him 
about a successful claim when it wasnt his claim they were referring to. 
Fullbrook Associates reviewed Ms C and Mr Ns complaint, and said the service theyd 
provided was reasonable, and didnt offer anything in settlement of the complaint. 
Ms C and Mr N were unhappy with this response, and brought their complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
The investigator found that the complaint about the cheque paid to company V, and 
Fullbrook Associates handling of the timeshare claim, isnt something that we can look at 
because of the rules that tell us what we can and cant look at. 
The investigator found that the service provided in respect of the complaint about the other 
claims dealt with by Fullbrook Associates was reasonable. Ms C and Mr N rejected these 
findings, saying (amongst other things) that Fullbrook Associates should refund Mr N the 
£5,700 hed paid, and that he has been the victim of a scam.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure the parties that although Ive only summarised the background to this 
complaint, so not everything thats happened or been argued is set out above, Ive read and 
considered everything thats been provided.
Complaints I cant look at 
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules under which the Financial 
Ombudsman Service operate are set out in the Dispute Resolution section of the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) handbook. These are known as the DISP rules. These rules set 
out the limits to what our service can and cant consider. And I am entirely bound by these 
rules and cannot disregard them.
There are a number of factors that determine whether or not we can consider a complaint, 
one of which being whether the activity complained about is something we can investigate. 
The rules summarise that in order for us to consider a complaint it must relate to one of a list 
of regulated activities or ancillary activities, carried on in connection with a regulated activity.
We have the power to look at complaints about claim management activity. This includes 
Advice, investigation or representation in relation to a financial services or financial product 
claim. 
I have seen that part Mr Ns complaint concerns the payment of £5,700 to company V to 
pursue a mis-sold timeshare claim and the service provided by Fullbrook Associates in 
respect of this. 
The service provided by Fullbrook Associates for Mr Ns mis-sold timeshare does not meet 
the definition of Advice, investigation or representation in relation to a financial services or 
financial product claim. This is because there isnt a financial services or financial product 
claim that forms part of Mr Ns timeshare claim. So unfortunately its not a complaint I can 
look at. 
Chargeback claim
Mr N says (on behalf of Ms C) that Fullbrook Associates have failed to progress the 
chargeback claim against lender S. I have seen a complaint letter to lender S written by Ms 
C dated 14 May 2018 in respect of a chargeback claim.
I understand in September 2020 Mr N and Ms C instructed Fullbrook Associates to deal with 
financial claims. Fullbrook Associates say as Ms C had already started the chargeback claim 
against lender S herself, they understood there wasnt anything immediate required for this 
claim at that time. I think these actions were reasonable given Ms C had already contacted 
lender S herself in 2018. In 2021 Fullbrook Associates contacted lender S to find out more about Ms Cs chargeback 
claim. As Mr N advised payment was made by debit card, Fullbrook Associates informed Mr 
N that they wouldnt be able to pursue this claim further and it was closed. 
Ive considered what Mr N has explained about Ms Cs chargeback claim. Mr N says 
Fullbrook Associates failed to progress this claim on time. But I dont think Fullbrook 
Associates mishandled this claim in the way that Mr N has explained. 
At the time of instructing Fullbrook Associates to deal with their financial claims, Ms C had 
already contacted lender S herself and had made Fullbrook Associates aware of this. The 
claim was made in 2018, more than two years after Mr N and Ms C instructed Fullbrook 
Associates to act for them. So I dont think Fullbrook Associates needed to act on this claim.
In July 2021 Fullbrook Associates did attempt to find out more about Ms Cs chargeback 
claim. But by this time, it was discovered that payment had been made by debit card. Mr N 
also later told Fullbrook Associates that a final response letter had already been received for 
this claim. Its not clear whether this was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 
time. But I wouldnt expect Fullbrook Associates to have taken this action because they were 
of the view that Ms C was dealing with the claim herself. 
It looks likely that Ms Cs chargeback claim against lender S is now out of time, based on 
what Mr N has said about receiving a final response letter. But for the reasons explained, I 
dont think Fullbrook Associates are responsible for whats happened with this claim. It was 
reasonable for them to believe it was a claim Ms C was dealing with herself. So I wont be 
directing Fullbrook Associates to take any further action in respect of this claim. 
Email about successful claim
Mr N says Fullbrook Associates sent him an email telling him about a successful claim with 
the Financial Ombudsman Service. Mr N says he was led to believe his claim against lender 
VFL had been successful. 
Ive reviewed the email sent by Fullbrook Associates. I can appreciate how the title of the 
email, and the content within the body of the email might cause confusion. The title of the 
email reads Your consumer credit claim regarding [company A] timeshare. The email goes 
on to explain about a successful complaint with the Financial Ombudsman Service.  
As the title refers to Your I can understand Mr Ns point about him believing the email was 
going to include information about his on-going claim. Fullbrook Associates have clarified the 
email does not relate to Mr Ns claim, and is instead, a generic email advising all their 
customers about the Financial Ombudsman Services general approach to complaints of the 
same type as Mr Ns. The email was shared for awareness only. 
Mr N feels deeply concerned by Fullbrook Associates email. Fullbrook Associates 
apologised for any confusion caused and explained We thought this was good information 
to give you, so you knew what was happening with other cases like yours. I accept we can 
word things in more plain English moving forward so I will try to do that. I think Fullbrook 
Associates apology and explanation for sending the email is reasonable. So I wont be 
asking them to take any further action in respect of this complaint. 
Claim against lender VFL
Whilst Ms C and Mr N have not complained about it as part of the current complaint, it is 
noted that they also asked Fullbrook Associates to act for them in respect of a claim under 
the Consumer Credit Act against lender VFL. This instruction was made on a no win no fee  basis. This claim is currently with the Financial Ombudsman Service awaiting an 
ombudsmans decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons provided I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman