DRN-3542730
The complaint
Ms R complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc didnt do enough to protect her from what she 
says was a scam involving the purchase of a car. She is also unhappy with the service she 
received. 
What happened
In June 2021 Ms R sent two payments from her Barclays account to a business Ill refer to 
as A. The payments were for the purchase of a second-hand car and totalled £2,550. Ms R 
says the car wasnt as described, she formed the opinion that A had scammed her and 
asked Barclays to help her get her money back. 
Ultimately Barclays concluded that this was a civil dispute rather than a scam and said they 
couldnt assist. They did however accept theyd provided poor service whilst dealing with 
Ms Rs claim and they paid £300 compensation for the impact of this. 
Ms R referred her complaint to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend it 
should be upheld. In summary our Investigator thought Barclays had acted fairly in reaching 
the decision they had, she also felt the compensation already offered was fair. Ms R 
disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Having considered everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Barclays to 
refund the money Ms R sent to A. I can appreciate that this outcome is not the one Ms R 
was hoping for and I can understand why she wants to try and recover this money. But 
having thought about Barclays actions, I am unable to say they have responsibility for 
refunding the money Ms R sent. I will explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that their customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. When Barclays made 
the payment, it was complying with Ms Rs instructions. At the time, Ms R wanted to pay the 
seller and there was no mistake made as the money was sent to the correct account details. 
As I dont think Barclays acted incorrectly by making the payments, Ive gone on to consider 
whether it should have refunded Ms R for any other reason. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which 
Barclays has signed up to and was in force at the time Ms R made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Ms R made and, in particular, whether Barclays ought to
reimburse her under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
But the CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer 
has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received 
them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the 
supplier
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payment Ms R made formed part of a 
buyer/seller dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM Code. 
Ms R strongly disagrees. She feels the seller has scammed her. From what I have seen, 
although I accept Ms R may not have received a car that was in as good a condition as she 
expected, or it may have been misrepresented to her by the seller, I dont think I can fairly 
say that the situation Ms R finds herself in is a scam. I think Barclays conclusion that the 
payment Ms R made forms part of a civil dispute and, as such, is not covered by the CRM 
Code was fair. 
This means I dont think Barclays is responsible for reimbursing Ms R because of any 
obligation under the CRM Code. I can appreciate why Ms R feels she has been deceived. 
But I am mindful that Ms R did receive the car for the money she paid. There is no dispute 
that the car exists, as Ms R has taken ownership of it, and Ive not seen anything that makes 
me think the person selling it did not have the right to do so.
The problems Ms R has raised stem back to the condition of the vehicle  she said the car 
was not fit for purpose, not as described and was not of satisfactory quality. She also has 
concerns over the validity of the cars MOT and has evidence that shes had to spend money 
on the car since taking ownership of it. But these are issues that are clearly stated as not 
being catered for within the CRM Code.
Ms R has my sympathy, in that she hasnt received a car that was in the condition she had 
hoped for. But overall, I dont think Barclays has treated Ms R unfairly when they concluded 
this was a civil matter. For the reasons I have explained, Im satisfied Ms R isnt due a refund 
under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are other grounds on which I could say that 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably bear the responsibility for either refunding Ms R the 
purchase price or paying for or contributing towards any of the further costs shes since 
incurred. 
Ive also considered the service provided by Barclays in relation to this complaint. Ms R 
believes Barclays ought to have advised her to contact the DVLA sooner than they did. Ive 
considered this, but I dont think its reasonable to expect Barclays to give specific advice 
about other options for how Ms R might resolve her dispute with A. So even if a member of 
staff did later provide some useful advice, I cant fairly criticise Barclays overall for not doing 
so sooner. With regard to the rest of the service Ms R experienced, its agreed by both sides 
that things didnt go as they should, and that Ms R was put to avoidable inconvenience which I agree would have caused frustration and upset. However, Barclays have paid £300 
compensation in relation to this. I appreciate receiving a vehicle that wasnt what she was 
expecting and attempting to resolve matters with A would also have caused stress and 
inconvenience. But this isnt something Barclays are responsible for. And in the 
circumstances of this complaint, and in the context of the distress and inconvenience caused 
by Barclays own actions  Im satisfied the £300 compensation is fair.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman