DRN-3915063
The complaint
Mr B complains that Atomos Investments Limited (formerly Sanlam Private Wealth) 
delayed in taking over the management of his investments. Mr B thinks hes been 
financially disadvantaged as a result of the delays.
Mr Bs initial contact was with a different firm, but matters were taken over by Sanlam 
Private Wealth. The business responsible for this complaint is now known as Atomos 
Investments Limited, so Ill refer to Atomos throughout this decision.
What happened
Mr B had investments held within a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and an ISA and 
had been receiving advice about them from another financial adviser. The investments 
were held within a managed portfolio on an investment platform with a company Ill refer 
to as A.
Mr B met with Atomos in July 2019 to discuss whether it could take over the management 
of his investments. Based on Mr Bs circumstances and objectives, Atomos 
recommended that his funds were invested in its discretionary personal investment 
portfolio service. Atomos explained to Mr B that it would provide restricted advice  
meaning it would assess his needs in respect of investment management and investment 
services only. And its services would primarily focus on investment products that it had 
carefully researched and approved. Its discretionary service meant that Atomos would 
make investment decisions that it felt were appropriate for Mr B, taking account of his 
investment aims and objectives. Mr B agreed for Atomos to take over the management of 
his investments.
Around August 2019, apparently at Atomos suggestion, Mr B got in touch with A, the 
platform provider, to request that Atomos be given full servicing and management 
rights to his investments. Within a month or so Mr Bs existing financial adviser had 
apparently unbundled his assets and was no longer involved in the management of 
them.
In an email dated 18 October 2019, Atomos said we are now fully able to commence 
active management of your SIPP and ISAs. It suggested meeting Mr B in late October or 
early November to discuss his aims and objectives going forward to formulate a pathway 
as to how best to optimise his returns.
The following month Atomos told Mr B that it was intending to review his investments and 
onboarding following which it would summarise its discussion. In a further email sent 
shortly after, Atomos said it would look at the portfolio mix and report back.
However, Mr B says that despite giving Atomos more information from about November 
2019 onwards, nothing really happened. Mr B got in touch with Atomos in December 
2019 asking for a progress report and what he should do about paying into his ISA and 
pension. Having heard nothing in response, Mr B contacted Atomos again in January 
2020 asking if there was a problem.
Atomos said that it was seeking internal confirmation about how Mr Bs pension could be 
set up. Later in January 2020, it said looking after Mr Bs ISA didnt pose any difficulty at 
all.
However, it later said things concerning the pension had become even more 
complicated. As the assets were still held with a third party, it said it would have to redo 
the application and open an account with an Atomos application in order to move the 
pension portfolio.
Whilst possible, Atomos thought it was difficult to do it within the fee structure previously 
agreed. It apologised and said that it thought it would be able to look after both accounts, 
but the pension fell within a regulation that wasnt expected, which led to added 
complications. It explained that whilst it was rearranging its agreements to allow this type 
of account, realistically, it would be better if Mr B:
limited Atomos oversight to the ISA. Atomos acknowledged that this wasnt 
what Mr B wanted, but it felt it could be done at the quoted fee level and with 
no IFA involvement.
revisit the situation in the new tax year  giving Mr B the chance to make 
further contributions in the way hed done before.
Atomos thought this allowed things not to drift any longer.
Mr B said his priority was paying in that years ISA and pension contributions. But hed 
established that the original fund wrapper was no longer in place and funds were now held 
in individual shares. So, he wouldnt have a single fund to buy, but could instead make 
contributions to a cash account. Mr B said Its the fact that the funds are rudderless that is 
now bothering me. He asked Atomos what it could do for the pension and ISA at that 
point, or what advice it could give him until it was sure what to do.
Atomos said that as soon as it had the wording for the new agreement, it could look after 
both investments. It said the ISA would be directly under its control and the pension 
would initially stay where it was, but it would have the authority to make changes to the 
portfolio and would have the holdings loaded on its system. It said it could provide 
quarterly valuations/reviews and would be the main point of contact for both. In the 
meantime, that meant Mr Bs funds would be under dual administration and Atomos 
management. In the short term, Atomos said that if Mr B had received a valuation on both 
funds, it could decide how that years contribution could be invested rather than it being 
uninvested in cash. It also said it could talk through options with Mr B. Mr B thought that 
sounded sensible and confirmed the total portfolio value and that it was currently 
arranged in three buckets.
Atomos confirmed that it shouldnt be difficult to find holdings that suited Mr B. It then 
suggested some investment options to enable him to make the planned contributions and 
have his funds invested. It said it would be in touch once it had a new agreement to cover 
Mr Bs pension.
Mr B then got in touch with Atomos in February 2020 to make a plea for it to do 
something and said hed put his additional contributions in cash in the meantime. But he 
wondered how exposed his investments generally would be. He added that he initially 
experienced some difficulty in making the contribution, as A wouldnt initially accept a 
request that hadnt come from his adviser.
Having heard nothing from about February 2020 onwards, Mr B got in touch with Atomos 
around July 2020. Hes since explained that his contact in February 2020 was in the hope 
that Atomos would take some preventative action before the impending financial crisis as 
a result of the global pandemic. But when he didnt get an answer before the markets 
were hit, he knew the damage had been done. Mr B continued to chase things up 
throughout August 2020 saying he felt completely in the dark about what was happening. 
He asked for his concerns to be escalated.
Atomos contacted Mr B in September 2020 and apologised for the confusion over the 
previous 12 months. It said that it was in a position to take over the management of his investments, but Mr B first had to complete another fact find, risk profile and client 
agreement. Atomos has been responsible for managing Mr Bs investments since 
late 2020.
Mr B complained to Atomos. In its response sent in October 2020, amongst other things, 
Atomos mentioned some of the difficulties it had from January 2020 onwards and said the 
transfer didnt happen sooner as one of the account managers retired and another left the 
company. It apologised that Mr B hadnt been told about this. It said once it became aware 
of Mr Bs concerns, another manager asked him to complete the necessary forms and his 
investments were transferred to Atomos to manage. Atomos thought Mr Bs complaint 
should be partially upheld, as he hadnt received any updates since February 2020.
However, it said it wasnt possible to make a direct comparison of what his funds would 
have been worth as it couldnt be sure what fund values would be involved and the dates 
the transfers would have been made. And, in any event, Atomos didnt think Mr B had 
been financially disadvantaged because his funds continued to be invested. However, it 
offered £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr B had suffered.
Statements that Atomos has provided show the following:
ISA  funds were received between 1 and 14 December 2020 and units purchased 
from about 15 December 2020.
Pension investment account  funds were received on 27 November 2020 and 
units purchased from about 30 November 2020 onwards.
Mr B wrote to Atomos following its complaint response. He accepted that it hadnt 
charged him fees during the period of delay. However, he said the removal of the fund 
management 6 months before and during a financial crisis is of far greater concern to me 
than the already- agreed and signed fees incurred. He asked Atomos to work out the 
loss his investments had likely suffered due to its delays.
Mr B wasnt happy with Atomos handling of things, so he complained to our Service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that Atomos hadnt 
acted fairly. She noted it was only able to take over things from September 2020 onwards 
and felt Atomos should have taken earlier action to try to address the problems it came up 
against. She said Atomos should compensate Mr B for any financial loss suffered (if 
applicable) by comparing the values of the funds once unmanaged, versus what they 
might have been worth if theyd stayed invested in the previous portfolio. She also 
recommended, if not already paid, that Atomos pay the £250 compensation it had 
previously mentioned.
Mr B accepted the investigators assessment but felt that Atomos should be noticeably 
penalised as he felt it had been deliberately obstructive throughout. Mr B said Atomos 
had already told him it could have completed the transfer around September 2019 - as it 
did over a year later - but its failure to do so was because the request wasnt referred to 
those qualified to make the transfer.
Atomos didnt agree with the investigator because it said it had difficulty accepting Mr Bs 
pension under its management. In any event, it again said it wasnt possible to make a 
comparison between fund values, as it couldnt be sure when the transfer would have 
been made. It remained of the view that Mr B hadnt been financially disadvantaged. 
It asked for an Ombudsman to consider the matter afresh, so its been passed to me to 
decide.
My provisional decision
I sent Mr B and Atomos my provisional decision on 9 December 2022. Ive included the 
relevant extracts below:I think its worth saying at the outset that, my role here isnt to penalise Atomos in the 
way that Mr B might hope in respect of anything thats gone wrong. Rather, if I decide 
that Atomos hasnt acted fairly or reasonably, its for me to say what it needs to do to put 
things right.
Having now considered all of the evidence in this matter, Im intending to reach broadly 
the same outcome that our investigator reached, but Ive given slightly different reasons. 
So, Im giving the parties an opportunity to comment first.
Atomos does appear to accept that it caused delays from about February 2020 onwards 
when the account managers whod expected to look after Mr Bs investments left the 
company. But it seems to be suggesting that it wasnt responsible for any delays before 
then as it had difficulties accepting Mr Bs pension under its management. And its position 
is that the impact of any delays that did occur was mostly felt in the lack of updates that Mr 
B received. It doesnt accept that it was responsible for any financial loss that Mr B might 
have suffered, not least because his funds remained invested during the period they 
werent being managed.
On the other hand, Mr B feels hes been financially disadvantaged as a result of Atomos 
delays  especially as, according to Mr B, Atomos indicated it could have done things 
much sooner, but hadnt referred the matter to the right employee within the business.
I thought very carefully about both positions. But, for the reasons Ive given below, I 
wasnt persuaded by Atomos position.
In particular, Atomos argued that it wasnt responsible for a delay from October 2019 as it 
had difficulty accepting Mr Bs pension onto its system. Whilst I accept the evidence does 
suggest that Atomos had difficulties moving the pension over to its system, I dont agree 
that means its not responsible for the delay.
I say that because Mr B first approached Atomos in July 2019. And from its initial fact find 
with him, its reasonable to assume that Atomos knew enough about his current 
investments and how they were structured so as to be able to recommend its discretionary 
investment portfolio service in the first place. In other words, if Atomos had anticipated any 
problems, its reasonable to assume it would have flagged them at this early stage  
especially before giving Mr B any undertakings that it would take over things. From the 
evidence Ive seen, it looks like Atomos did tell Mr B that it would get him to fill in the ISA 
form whilst it carried out exploratory work on his pension and before it had made any move 
about transferring his assets.
But from about August 2019, it appeared to be pretty much all systems go. Mr B asked A 
to arrange for Atomos to have full servicing rights to his investments. And his former 
financial adviser had apparently unbundled the investments within a month or so of Mr 
Bs meeting with Atomos and had relinquished any management of them. As far as I can 
tell, that meant the investments were held separately outside of the fund/wrapper they 
were previously held in. In October 2019, Atomos told Mr B we are now fully able to 
commence active management of your SIPP and ISAs.
So, by October 2019, I think Mr B had a reasonable expectation that Atomos would soon 
be taking over the management of his investments. Yet, things were far from 
straightforward. And Im not persuaded thats a responsibility Mr B should bear. 
Especially when he appeared to hit something of a brick wall around November 2019 
when trying to find out what was happening with his investments. Mr B was clearly still 
hoping to make contributions to his pension and ISA around that time, so I can 
understand why it was important, for that reason amongst others, for him to know what 
was going on.
Yet, the evidence suggests Mr B had to chase things up, at which point he found out, 
around January 2020, that there was a problem concerning Atomos managing his pension investment. And whilst I accept that Atomos did pose alternatives to Mr B as a means of 
trying to move things on  including managing his ISA only in the short-term  I think thats 
likely to have come as a significant disappointment to Mr B. Although, as Mr Bs since 
explained, it was of greater concern to him to find out that his investments were 
rudderless particularly during a time of financial crisis, especially when the evidence 
shows that Mr B made reasonable efforts to reduce the length of any delays.
Allowing for a few weeks from October 2019 for Atomos to meet with Mr B to discuss 
proposed investments, I think it would have been in a position to take over things from 
around November 2019. But the evidence shows that, once Atomos took over things, 
the funds were reinvested in late November 2020 for the pension investment account 
and between early and mid-December for the ISA account. And it follows that I think 
its responsible for the delays that occurred.
So, that leads me onto what Atomos should now do to put things right.
Putting things right
Atomos said it couldnt consider whether Mr B had suffered a financial loss because it 
couldnt say, had all things been equal, which funds Mr B would have invested in and 
how long it would have taken for things to be transferred over. I have some sympathy 
with that view to the extent that its difficult to say now exactly what would have 
happened if things had gone more smoothly. However, I think the reality of Mr Bs 
situation is that the lack of oversight created a loss of opportunity to potentially invest in 
a different way. And, whilst noting Atomos disagreement, Im persuaded by Mr Bs 
assertion that his investments were effectively rudderless, including during a time when 
there was market volatility due to a global pandemic. And, that may have had an impact 
on fund values. I also dont think Atomos did enough to try to mitigate against the impact 
that had.
Mr B thinks the consequences of the lack of management can best be worked out by 
comparing the performance of the previous portfolio he was invested in versus the actual, 
unmanaged investments (he says that ideally there would also be a comparison between 
the Atomos portfolio and the unmanaged investments).
In situations like this, I have to reach what I believe is a fair and reasonable outcome in 
the specific circumstances of the case.
In Mr Bs case, Ive thought about his motivation for approaching Atomos in the first place. 
Theres no evidence to suggest that he wasnt happy with his investments per se, Rather, 
it looks like Mr B was intent on maximising his tax freedoms and, from what hes said, he 
mainly wanted to simplify the management of his investments. So, hes explained thats 
why he offered Atomos the job of managing his investments directly. I also have to think 
about what would have happened at the time had things turned out differently, as 
opposed to changes in market conditions that might now influence what Mr B thinks he 
would have done.
And on balance, I think that if Atomos had properly managed Mr Bs expectations about 
whether it was in a position to take over his investments, he might have decided to leave 
things as they were until such time as it could. I say that in particular because Mr B has 
himself acknowledged that had he known there would be the delays he faced, hed still 
likely have signed up to Atomos (presumably because of the simplification he said he was 
looking for) but wouldnt have transferred the IFA management of the funds held with A 
until there was a clear way forward. That being the case, Im intending to say that a fair 
and reasonable outcome now is for Atomos to:
ISA  establish what the value of Mr Bs ISA would have been had it 
remained invested in his previous portfolio (LGT Vestra Adventurous and 
LGT Vestra Growth) between November 2019 and 14 December 2020 when 
the funds were transferred to Atomos and new units bought. If this demonstrates a loss, Atomos will then need to apply to it the actual 
percentage returns Mr B has seen on his ISA from 14 December 2020 until 
the date of my final decision. This will then demonstrate the total loss 
suffered. Atomos should pay that into Mr Bs ISA.
Pension investment account - establish what the value of Mr Bs pension 
investment account would have been had it remained invested in his previous 
managed portfolio (LGT Vestra Adventurous and LGT Vestra Growth) between 
November 2019 and 27 November 2020 when the funds were transferred to 
Atomos and units bought a few days later. If this demonstrates a loss, Atomos 
will then need to apply to it the actual percentage returns Mr B has seen on this 
investment account from 27 November 2020 until the date of my final decision. 
This will demonstrate the total loss Mr B suffered in respect of this specific 
investment. Atomos needs to pay that amount into Mr Bs pension account. If a 
payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a 
notional reduction to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. As Mr B would be able to take tax-free cash, 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional reduction of 15% 
overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
This matter has clearly been a source of great concern to Mr B. Atomos offered 
£250 compensation for the inconvenience caused. In other circumstances, I 
might have said that wasnt enough to fully and fairly recognise the extent of 
Atomos delays or the impact they had on Mr B. The upshot being that Mr B has 
faced a great deal of uncertainty surrounding his investments and pension 
provision. However, I understand that Atomos also decided to waive some fees 
that would otherwise have been charged during the period of delay. So, taking 
those things together, Im satisfied that what Atomos has done recognises the 
impact of its delays. Therefore, Im not intending to say it should pay additional 
compensation in respect of the impact of those delays. It should now pay Mr B 
the £250 compensation previously offered if its not already done so.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B said my provisional decision describes the situation well and that hes broadly 
happy with the proposed outcome. However, he made the following additional comments:
He questioned whether Atomos had explained the difficulties it reportedly 
had (as referenced in my provisional decision) between the period October 
2019 to October 2020, given that Atomos (Sanlam at the time) apparently 
employed a specific individual to deal with pension transfers.
Mr B didnt think compensation of £250 fairly reflected the effort needed in 
bringing the problem to a resolution. And whilst he recognised that Atomos 
hadnt charged him fees during the period of delay, he felt that was due to a 
lack of account management as opposed to a conscious effort on Atomos 
part to waive fees. Mr B also felt that retrospectively applying fees for the 
period his investments were unmanaged would be bizarre.  
Atomos asked for clarification about my proposed award. So, on 13 January 2023, I sent 
the following to Atomos and Mr B:
Step 1 of the calculation is to work out the notional value of what the respective parts of 
Mr Bs investments would have been worth had they stayed invested in the LGT funds 
during the periods of delay. So:
ISA - between November 2019 (please calculate from 1st) and 14 December 2020.Pension investment account  November 2019 (please calculate from 1st) and 27 November 
2020.
That needs to be compared to the actual value of Mr Bs funds on 14 December 2020 for the 
ISA and 27 November 2020 for the Pension investment account.
If the notional values on those dates are greater than the actual values, it demonstrates the 
losses Mr B suffered up until that point. But Mr Bs losses would have also seen investment 
returns (or losses) since those dates had they been invested alongside his actual funds. 
So, Step 2 of the calculation is to address the returns on any losses. In order to do that, 
Atomos then needs to apply the actual percentage returns that Mr B has seen on each of 
those accounts from the dates of the loss to the date of my final decision as that will factor in 
any additional investment loss that Mr B may have suffered.
Those two calculations together will demonstrate the total loss that Mr B may have suffered.
Atomos has since accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Atomos has accepted my provisional decision, I now need to consider whether anything 
Mr B has said would cause me to change what I said in that decision. And, on balance I 
dont think it does.
Atomos didnt elaborate on the difficulties it faced in accepting Mr Bs pension into its 
management beyond what Ive already set out in my provisional decision. My reference to it 
was simply to show that Atomos initially put that forward as a reason why it felt it wasnt 
responsible for any delays before about February 2020. But, whether it did or didnt have a 
dedicated officer to deal with pension transfers (although I have no reason to doubt what Mr 
B says) as I said in my provisional decision, I wasnt persuaded by Atomos position. I 
remain of that view. So, I dont think its necessary to go into any further detail on that point.
I appreciate that Mr B might feel his particular case warrants more compensation. But when 
deciding to award compensation, I need to think about the impact the business mistakes or 
shortcomings have had on the consumer rather than simply focussing on the efforts theyve 
had to make to bring the problem to a resolution. I cant say with any certainty whether 
Atomos decision not to charge fees was a conscious one or was due to a lack of account 
management  or a combination of both. But, whatever the reason, the fact it didnt charge 
fees does, I think, go some way to recognising that Atomos was not overseeing things in the 
way that Mr B was entitled to expect. And by offering £250 compensation on top of that, Im 
satisfied that Atomos recognised the impact of those shortcomings and delays on Mr B. So, 
when taking those two things together added to the fact that Im making an award in terms of 
how Atomos should put right any financial loss that Mr B may have suffered, Im satisfied 
that, overall, this is a fair and reasonable outcome to this specific complaint. Atomos should 
pay the £250 compensation to Mr B if it hasnt already done so.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Atomos Investments Limited should put things right as Ive set out 
above and as outlined in my provisional decision and email of 13 January 2023.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Amanda ScottOmbudsman