DRN-3709793
The complaint
Mr F complains that Computershare Investor Services Plc failed to let him know about a 
rights issue on one of his shareholdings.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to both parties, so I wont go over it in great 
detail. However, the key facts are as follows:
Mr F owns shares in a company I will refer to as Company A.
Company A announced a rights issue in autumn 2020  but Mr F didnt hear about it. 
Mr F told us he usually did receive emails from Computershare  he shared an 
example which was an email from December 2019 in relation to a dividend payment 
from Company A  but on this occasion, he had heard nothing about what was 
happening with Company A. As he missed the chance to take his rights up, he raised 
concerns with Computershare.
Computershare responded and said that unlike a UK rights issue, non-response to 
Company As rights issue didnt automatically default to receipt of cash  instead the 
rights lapsed so there was no compensation due. They also mentioned that Mr F had 
selected his communication preference as email  they confirmed the email they had 
for him on file which I note to be the one he gave us  and said the email had been 
sent on 14 September 2020. This aside, they changed his preference to post for 
future communication. 
Mr F remained unhappy and reiterated some of his concerns. He also mentioned that 
Company A was listed on the London Stock Exchange so UK law ought to apply. He 
estimated his loss to be around £138. 
As things remained unresolved, Mr F asked for our help. He also told us hed noticed 
hed been locked out of his online account around the time  he was concerned this 
had affected either Computershares ability to email him or his ability to receive an 
email. 
Initially Computershare didnt agree to us looking into whatd happened as they 
thought it was a matter which fell outside of our jurisdiction. I considered that but 
disagreed, so the case was passed to one of our investigators had a look at what had 
happened. 
She didnt however think Computershare had done anything wrong  shed seen 
Computershare had sent Mr F an email, and she was satisfied Mr F had consented 
to this too. She also didnt think Mr Fs locked account would have affected 
Computershares ability to email him.
Mr F didnt accept her findings  he said had he have been contacted, he would have 
responded given it was in his financial interest to do so. He also remained concerned 
about a link between his locked account and email receipt  in order to meet their 
obligations, he thought Computershare ought to have used another method to get in 
touch such as post. He also thought our investigator had been biased in her review 
and had made factual mistakes. So he asked for an Ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the purposes of his shares in Company A, Computershare is Mr Fs nominee. In the 
event of corporate action, like Company As, Computershare were to treat Mr F as if he was 
a registered shareholder and promptly pass along messages they receive. 
When Company A announced the rights issue, Computershare needed to let shareholders 
know. Id expect them to do this using the method the shareholder has chosen to hear from 
them. 
Computershare told us that due to the short turnaround time of the rights issue  being 
around a week and a half  there wasnt the time to let investors know about what was 
happening by post, so emails were sent. But this wasnt an issue here, as Computershare 
have confirmed that Mr F chose to hear from them about his shareholdings by email and this 
is not something he has contested.
Instead, Mr F says he didnt receive the email. I have therefore considered whether Im 
persuaded Computershare sent the email, and not whether Mr F received it. This is an 
important distinction to make.
Computershare dont have a copy of the email sent to Mr F, but this is understandable given 
they were using mail merge to get in touch with around 80,000 shareholders. Instead, 
Computershare have provided information from their systems about the emails they say 
were sent. 
The information shows that an email was sent on 11 September 2020 to the email address 
Mr F had registered with them. This is the same email address we have on file to 
communicate with him now. Theyve also shared the standard text that was sent, along with 
the specific information relevant to Mr Fs holding that wouldve featured too. 
The information not only shows Mr Fs email address, but also references the correct size of 
his Company A holding, his rights entitlement and the correct holding reference number. 
Having looked at this information Im persuaded, on balance, that the email was sent and 
had been tailored to Mr Fs circumstances. Im also not persuaded that Mr Fs account being 
locked would have made any difference here. I say that because the sending and receiving 
of emails happens between email servers, not within the confines of an online account.
I cant say why Mr F didnt receive the email, but my role is not to speculate on the reasons 
for why an email might have failed, been intercepted, got lost in junk or any other reason. 
Instead my role is to look at Computershare, and whether they fulfilled their obligations in 
sending the communication out  Im satisfied they did. 
I appreciate Mr F will remain unhappy with my decision and it is unfortunate that he missed 
out on his rights, but I cant see Computershare did anything wrong here so I dont agree 
they ought to compensate him for what happened. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman