DRN-3642876
The complaint
Ms G complains about the service provided by Unbiased Financial Group LLP, referred to as 
Unbiased or the business.  
In short, shes unhappy that her investment was transferred by Unbiased  from a third-party 
business (referred to as the transferor) to another business (referred to as the transferee) 
 without her authority, preventing her from accessing her funds, resulting in financial loss. 
Shes unhappy that the business only offered to pay £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Shed also like an apology from the business about the way she was 
treated by the adviser. 
What happened
In December 2021, Ms G met with the business about financial advice. A recommendation 
letter was in due course issued dated 7 January 2022.  
The transferor said that funds were removed on 12 January 2022. Unbiased said that it was 
notified/became aware on 18 January 2022 that the funds had been moved over and 
contacted Ms G the next day to notify her of the error. 
The adviser explained what happened in that it was a human error that caused matters to 
progress as it did and apologised on many occasions. It also assured Ms G that it wouldnt 
happen again. 
The business thereafter maintained regular contact with Ms G providing her with updates on 
what was happening, until the funds in question were returned to the transferor on 3 
February 2022. The funds in due course were reinvested on 8 February 2022. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Unbiased was aware of the error and did all it could to put things right, and as quickly 
as possible. 
The transfer was in-specie, so its understandable that the transfer back took some 
time. And as the funds had already been processed by another business (which is an 
automatic process) it wasnt something that Unbiased could control. 
The investment was valued at £61,138 when it left the transferor, and when it was 
returned it was £59,809. 
Despite what Ms G says about wanting the difference in value being paid to her, 
shes not entitled to it because the transfer was completed in-specie which means 
she wasnt out of the market and the changes in price wouldve happened 
regardless.   
It wouldnt be fair to ask the business to refund the difference in the share price 
because its not responsible for, and cant control, the markets.     
The above notwithstanding, the transferor (at Unbiaseds insistence) carried out a 
price comparison and found that Ms G made a profit of over £400. So, despite what 
Ms G says, she suffered no loss and therefore she wont be asking the business to 
pay any compensation for losses claimed. 
The business has already apologised to Ms G numerous times, and the offer of £150 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience is broadly fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.  
Ms G disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
Theres been much correspondence between Ms G and the investigator, but in summary she 
made the following key points:
Shes at a financial deficit of £1,329.18 which is causing her a great deal of stress. 
She had every intention of withdrawing her funds when they were at £61,138 but was 
prevented from doing so by the businesss error. 
She contacted her adviser with the transferor, but he didnt know why her account 
had been closed  until Unbiaseds error later came to light  by which time the funds 
were no longer available to her. And by the time they were available, they were worth 
£59,809.
The investigator has missed the point with regards to her comments about the funds 
being in-specie. She wanted to close her account when the funds were worth 
£61,138 but couldnt. 
She also couldnt make a request to close an account that had already closed. Thats 
why she called the adviser at with the transferor. When she spoke to Unbiased, she 
was (incorrectly) told the transferor had made a mistake. 
The £150 compensation offered by the business goes nowhere near to 
compensating her for the distress and inconvenience suffered. 
She was planning to by purchase a property abroad that (in principle) she agreed to 
make an offer on. However, due to her not having access to her funds she was 
unable to secure the deposit so lost the opportunity to purchase her ideal property.
How is this decision fair when the adviser transferred funds without following 
procedure and without her consent? She questions whether the adviser was even the 
right person to do the transfer back, given that he didnt even know what he was 
doing. 
Shes a victim of the advisers unethical behavior. It took many days for the funds to 
be returned, during which time she was without access to her funds.  
Whilst shes keen to get the matter sorted, she also wants time to provide evidence 
of a call log to her adviser with the transferor. Although the call was to his mobile and 
unlikely to be recorded, it shows that she did make the call. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind. In short, she said:
Without evidence, she cant find that Ms G wanted to close her account. 
Ms G is free to complain to the FCA if thats what she wants to do. But unlike our 
service, the FCA is unlikely to share the outcome of its investigation and wont award 
any redress.  
Theres no dispute that the adviser acted without authority, and the business has 
repeatedly apologised for this error. 
The adviser also kept Ms G up to date and dealt with the issue as quickly as 
possible. 
She cant comment on whether the actions of the adviser were illegal, that would be 
for a court to decide. 
The advisers email dated 24 January 2022 stated that it would take 3-5 days to get 
into the market and the same to come out. This was followed up by an email dated 
27 January 2022, when the adviser said the funds should be settled by 1 or 2 February 2022. The settlement took longer than indicated, but this wouldve been 
outside of the control of Unbiased. 
Once the process had been started, it couldnt be reserved as confirmed by 
transferee dated 15 February 2022. In the circumstances Unbiased couldnt have 
done anymore to speed things up. 
Shes not disputing that Ms G made the call in question. However, unless theres 
persuasive evidence that Ms G wanted to close the account, shes not persuaded to 
change her mind. 
In summary, the business made the following observations:
Its a shame that Ms G doesnt agree with investigators view. Shes made a lot of 
points  including some upsetting and insulting points towards the adviser and his 
character  however it respects that shes upset. 
Its an awful situation as Ms G came to the business as a referral from an existing 
client. 
Despite what Ms G says, the adviser made clear that it was a mistake at its end and 
not that of the transferor. 
Even if Ms G wanted to withdraw her full stocks and ISAs, it still takes time and 
couldnt be done instantly, so there was no guarantee that shed get the full value she 
refers to. 
In December (presumably 2021), Ms G confirmed that she had a very large amount 
on deposit (around £200,000 plus) which she will confirm. If shed spent this, she 
couldve still shown her available investment as proof for a deposit. 
If Ms Gs plan was to withdraw all her funds from the tax efficient ISA wrapper, she 
wouldnt have been advised to transfer in the first place. It also wouldve questioned 
why she came to it for ISA advice in the first place.
For the record, it would never get involved in any unethical behaviour. Once the 
error was discovered, it did everything to fix the situation. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
going to uphold this complaint, on the basis that the business has offered to pay  but hasnt 
yet paid  compensation for distress and inconvenience caused. 
Because the business upheld the complaint  on the basis that it erroneously transferred her 
investment the key issue for me to consider is redress and whether or not its fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Having done so, and on balance, in this instance I think 
£150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused is broadly fair and 
reasonable. 
But before I explain why, I think its still important for me to recognise the strength of feeling 
Ms G has about this matter. Shes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope she wont take the fact my 
findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I 
appreciate this can be frustrating, but it doesnt mean Im not considering the pertinent 
points.
My role is to consider the evidence presented by her and the business, and reach what I 
think is an independent, fair, and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. Its not 
my role to punish the business for any regulatory breaches either, thats the role of the FCA. 
My role is to decide if the business has done anything wrong and where appropriate award 
redress for any financial losses for which its responsible and/or compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience caused.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and best 
industry practice but, perhaps unlike a court or tribunal, Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. Its also not for me to determine whether an act is legal or not thats a matter for 
the courts. 
I note Ms G specifically wants to know if its illegal for a financial adviser to transfer funds 
without authority. But my not answering this question doesnt prevent me from reaching a 
decision in this case.
Despite what Ms G says, theres no dispute that an error was made by Unbiased and by 
virtue of this admission and apology its implicit that the business did something wrong. In 
other words, in this instance it (erroneously) did something that it wasnt asked or authorised 
to do  despite Ms Gs questions theres no dispute about this.  
I note Ms G says that the adviser previously blamed the transferor for the error, but the 
business denies this. Despite what happened in the past, Unbiased readily concedes that 
that the error was at its end, and thats why it took steps to try and place Ms G in the position 
she wouldve been in but for the error. In other words, to place her investment back with the 
transferor  where they wouldve been had the error not occurred. Thats why the business 
also offered to pay her £150 compensation for the (reasonably short-term) distress and 
inconvenience caused which on balance I think is fair and reasonable. 
Im persuaded by the businesss explanation that the mistake occurred because of a human 
error. In the circumstances, Im satisfied that it wasnt done on purpose and certainly not 
done to cause Ms G any distress and inconvenience.  
I understand that Ms Gs investment was transferred in-specie, which means that it remained 
invested in the market the whole time that it was (erroneously) transferred away from, and 
subsequently transferred back to the transferor. So, the investment remained subject to 
market movements throughout this time.
Ms G should be aware that Unbiased cant predict or control the market movements, 
therefore it isnt responsible for the loss in value of her investment. In other words, despite 
the transfer error, this hasnt caused the loss in value of the investment which is subject to 
the markets. Therefore, Unbiased isnt responsible for the losses claimed. 
I appreciate what Ms G says about her intention to withdraw the funds  when her shares 
were worth £61,138  and that she was unable to do so because of the error by Unbiased. 
But despite what she says, and the possibility of purchasing a property abroad, Ive seen no 
persuasive evidence to conclude that this is what she wouldve done or planned to do at the 
time.   On balance, I also think the comments made by her are done so in hindsight. Despite what 
she says, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that shes planned to purchase a property 
abroad at the time, and/or that she attempted to withdraw funds in order to do so  and that 
she was prevented from doing so. 
Its arguable that she couldve withdrawn the money that was available in order to secure the 
property in question, and then try and claim the balance from Unbiased if she still thought it 
was to blame, but she didnt. Im also mindful the business says that Ms G couldve shown 
her investments with the transferor as proof of her deposit but probably didnt.    
Based on what the business says, it seems that even if the funds were with the transferor 
they couldnt be encashed immediately and therefore there was no guarantee in any event 
that Ms G would get the money that she thought shed get. 
Despite the points made by Ms G, on balance I think £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is broadly fair and reasonable. I appreciate Ms G thinks the business 
should pay a much higher sum, but I dont think the amount is unreasonable for the error 
made by the business. 
I appreciate Ms G will be thoroughly disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything, other than pay the £150 it has 
offered. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint on the basis that Unbiased Financial 
Group LLP should pay Ms G the £150 compensation that it has offered her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman