DRN-3878038
The complaint
Ms G complains that Barclays Ban k UK PL C (Barclays) closed her sole trader bank account 
and declined her application for a Bounce Back Loan (BBL).
To put things right, she wants Barclays to re-open her accou nt and pay her compensation.
What happened
In or around ........  2020, Ms G applied to Barclays for a BBL. She had problems completing  
the application online, and had to make various calls to Barclays to get help. On 19 May  
2020, the application still hadnt been processed, so Ms G complained to Barclays. She said 
her MP had told her there were no criteria for the loan, and that some of her friends had  
received the loan within days of applying.
When Barcla ys looked into the application, it found an internal marker on Ms Gs account  
that required Barclays to update its Know Your Customer (KYC) records. At the same time, 
Barclays carried out a review of Ms Gs personal accounts and decided to end its personal  
banking relationship with Ms G, which in turn led to Barclays deciding to end its business 
banking relationship with Ms G. Beca use it had ended its relationship with Ms G, it said it  
wasnt able to offe r her a BBL, or an y oth er account products.
Barclays issued its final response to Ms Gs complaint on 18 June 2020, confirming the 
above. It said it wasnt able to disclose the reason behind its decision, because matters  
relating to policy and banking criteria were confidential to the bank.
Ms G remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. She said Barclays 
had closed her account before correctly investigating it and said Barclays had threatened her  
with the accou nt closure when sh e called to discuss her application.
Ms G said she thought Barcla ys had closed her accou nt because of a previou s complaint  
shed made to the bank. And that she was left without a bank account, and so was 
effectively barred fro m the BBL sch eme. She said Barclays had misled her by saying she 
didnt qualify for the BBL because of her credit file, despite the fact that the BBL scheme 
didnt permit banks to complete credit checks. She sa id her busine ss needed funds to stay 
operational, and had been financially disadvantaged by Barclays actions.
Our investigato r looked at the complaint, but she d idnt uphold it. She said Barclays had  
acted in line with its terms of business when it closed Ms G s account and declined to 
proceed with the BBL application. And that Barclays shouldnt have to compensate Ms G for  
the delay, given the BBL application would still have been declined had it been addressed 
sooner.
Miss G didnt accept our investigators opinion. She said Barcla ys wasnt entitled to decline 
the loan, that 4 staff members had promised her the BBL would be paid, and that she still  
believed Barclays decision was connected to her previou s complaint.
On 5 Decembe r 2022, I issued a provisional decision. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure and BBL
Much of what Ms G has said relates to her assertion that Barclays had no authority to deny
her a BBL. She said the BBL was underwritten by the government and the banks only task
was to distribute the loans. She said there were no criteria she had to meet, other than
having an account  which she did when she applied  and that Barclays couldnt decline a
BBL application due to things like credit checks. And that Barclays misled her as to the true
criteria.
While it is true that credit checks dont form part of the application process, the BBL scheme
did still have eligibility criteria, and all applications were subject to anti-fraud, anti-money
laundering and KYC checks. Lenders also had some discretion under the scheme to decide
how to accept applications, both from new and existing customers. And, while the scheme
didnt require applicants to have a business relationship, lenders were entitled to require
one.
It was a pre-requisite of Barclays that Ms G had an account in order for a BBL to be granted.
And, while Ms G had an account at the date she applied, Barclays closed it before it
approved the application, having followed the correct procedure.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. The terms and conditions
of Ms Gs account  which both Barclays and Ms G had to comply with  say that Barclays
could close the account by giving Ms G two months notice. Barclays gave Ms G two months
notice of the closure in its letter dated 15 June 2020.
So, at first sight, its correct to say Ms G wasnt eligible because she didnt have an account.
However, Ms G has suggested Barclays closed her account because of previous complaints
she raised, the implication being it did so to avoid issuing a BBL to her. With that in mind,
Ive looked at the reasons Barclays closed Ms Gs account to see if it treated her fairly.
As the investigator has already explained, Barclays has extensive legal and regulatory
responsibilities it must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil
those obligations it may need to review activity taking place on its customers accounts and
take appropriate action.
Barclays told Ms G that it had carried out a review of its banking relationship with Ms G in its
final response to her complaint. And, while it said it couldnt disclose its rationale to Ms G, it
has disclosed the same to our service. Having looked at the evidence Barclays relied on to
reach its decision, Im satisfied Barclays completed its investigation fairly and that its
decision to close Ms Gs account wasnt connected to any previous complaints, and wasnt
made with the intention of blocking Ms Gs application for a BBL.
Ive also thought about whether the outcome of Barclays review entitled it to decline Ms Gs
BBL application, irrespective of the requirement for Ms G to be an account holder. I set out
above the checks all BBL applications are subject to, and I can see Barclays carried out
those checks as part of its review of Ms Gs accounts. And Ive seen from Barclays internal
records that Ms Gs application didnt pass those checks. So even if Barclays hadnt closed
Ms Gs account, it would still have been entitled to reject the BBL application.
I know Ms G doesnt believe Barclays was entitled to reject her application, but havingreviewed the evidence both parties have submitted, Im satisfied that it was. I understand it
was frustrating that Barclays didnt disclose the reasons for its decision to Ms G. And I hope
Ms G can take some comfort from an independent third-party reviewing Barclays actions.
Ultimately neither the terms of the BBL scheme, nor the terms of Ms Gs account oblige
Barclays to say why it closed her account and rejected her application. And, having thought
about everything both parties have told me, I see no basis on which I could reasonably
compel Barclays to undo its actions, or explain itself further.
Delays and other matters
I dont have the exact date Ms G applied for the BBL, but it was somewhere around the end
of April or start of May 2020. Barclays communicated its decision in mid-June, so it took a
maximum of 8 weeks for Barclays to complete its investigation and process Ms Gs
application.
Barclays has explained that Ms Gs initial difficulties were due to an internal KYC marker that
prevented her BBL application from proceeding. And, from the contact notes Barclays has
provided, it appears that wasnt identified until around 19 May 2020. Barclays has explained
that the high volume of applications it received caused the delay in processing Ms Gs
application.
Ms G complained that her friends had received their loans in a matter of days, and that the
delay on her own application caused her business financial hardship. However, Im satisfied
Barclays use of the KYC marker was appropriate, and that it processed Ms Gs application
in a reasonable timeframe considering the information it had to assess as part of its account
review. The sheer volume of BBL applications meant Barclays had less available resource to
process applications. And ultimately, because the loan application wasnt successful, I cant
say Ms G was deprived of the loan funds because of the delay.
Ms G has suggested that she was effectively barred from the BBL scheme because she
couldnt open another account elsewhere. And that she was financially disadvantaged as a
result of Barclays actions. The BBL scheme was available until 31 March 2021, some 9
months after Barclays declined Ms Gs application. So, on the face of it Im satisfied Ms G
had sufficient time to apply elsewhere, and I havent seen evidence to persuade me that
Barclays actions caused Ms G to miss out on the BBL scheme.
Notwithstanding that, because Ive said Barclays didnt unfairly reject Ms Gs application, I
cant reasonably tell it to compensate her for any losses she suffered as a result of missing
out on a BBL, or hold Barclays responsible for the actions of other lenders.
Ms G also complained that Barclays threatened her when she applied for the BBL, and told
her 4 times that she would get the funds. She says that, while Barclays while it was carrying
out its review, she asked if her sole trader account was OK, to which Barclays replied yes,
for now. And that she was told shed get the money when she called to chase her
application.
I havent listened to recordings of the calls Ms G refers to, but I dont consider the words Mrs
G has described to be a threat, or even inappropriate. And Im satisfied Ms G was simply
told the true position with regard to her business account, given the review of all of Ms Gs
accounts had yet to be concluded.
Further, for the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied Barclays acted fairly in declining Ms
Gs BBL application, so I cant reasonably tell Barclays to pay the loan simply because it
failed to correctly manage her expectations. And Im not persuaded that any disappointmentMs G experienced having been told she would get the funds warrants a payment of
compensation, particularly given Barclays correctly declined Ms Gs application.
I asked both parties to submit any further evidence or arguments they wish me to consider
by 2 January 2023. Ms G replied saying Barclays had acted with the intention of stopping 
her business, and that she had done nothing wrong. She said Barclays wasnt entitled to 
close her account and she requested compensation for the detriment she had suffered. 
Barclays didnt reply to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Ms G doesnt think Barclays acted fairly and that she doesnt think it was 
entitled to close her account, or deny her BBL application. But I set out the reasons why I 
dont agree with that in my provisional findings. And Ms G hasnt provided any further 
information that changes my view. With that being the case, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman