DRN-3334578
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Nationwide Building Society rejected her claim under section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty furniture.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The required chain is in place so it falls to me to decide if there has been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation and if appropriate what remedy is required.
Mrs C bought two sofas in December 2019 as a matching pair. She reported a fault soon 
after and the retailer arranged for them to be inspected. The inspection took place in July 
2020 and the report confirmed that a sofa had a manufacturing fault. The report states: This 
is a manufacturing fault because the interior has lost density. However, the retailer entered 
administration and so Mrs C took the matter to Nationwide.
I gather the inspector only looked at one sofa, but both are from the same manufacturer and 
use the same foam. Mrs C has confirmed that due to the issue with the foam density on one 
sofa she started using the other regularly and this suffered from the same problem. So I am 
satisfied that both sofas are faulty.
The inspection report said that a new seat interior was needed to remedy the fault. However, 
it seems the fault is more extensive and extends to all the seats on both sofas. That would 
suggest more extensive repairs woold be needed and in the circumstances I agree with our 
investigator that the best remedy is that Mrs C be allowed to reject them.
I appreciate Mrs C has had use of the sofas but much of the delay in dealing with her claim 
is not due to her and she will now have to acquire new furniture at what is most likely to a 
higher price. As such I do not consider there should be any reduction for use. 
I also agree that it should pay the sum originally offered for delays in dealing with the claim 
and complaint. 
Putting things right
Your text here
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Nationwide Building Society to:
allow Mrs C to reject the sofa
refund the full amount of £3,634.84 to Mrs Cs credit card.  this would also include 
removing any interest and charges relating to the transaction. In the event the 
reworking results in a credit balance then this should be refunded to Mrs C including 
simple 8% yearly interest paid on said balance from the date of the credit balance to 
the date of settlement,
arrange collection of the sofa for a date that is mutually agreeable for both parties at 
no cost to Mrs C,
pay £200 the Nationwide originally offered Mrs C for the delays in processing her 
claim,
HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. 
Nationwide must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman