DRN-4016621
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that National House-Building Council (NHBC) unfairly declined 
claims they made under their new home structural warranty.
Mrs M has primarily dealt with things, so for simplicity Ill refer to her only.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the key points:
Mrs M bought a house in 2021. It was covered by a ten-year NHBC warranty which 
began in 2016. When Mrs M bought the house, the remainder of the warranty cover 
transferred to her. She then got in touch with NHBC about two separate problems.
The first was about a number of slipped or fallen roof tiles. NHBC declined this claim 
because the problem hadnt led to any water ingress.
The second was about water ingress to the first floor bay window. NHBC declined 
this claim because it said the previous owner had claimed for the same problem 
when they owned the house.
Mrs M said NHBC should have checked the property met relevant standards before 
signing it off and issuing a warranty.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought NHBC had 
acted fairly when declining the claims. And she could only consider how NHBC acted 
in relation to the insurance contract  not to any other roles it performed.
Mrs M disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NHBC considered Mrs Ms claims under Section 3 of the warranty. This covers certain 
problems which happen during years 3-10, subject to a number of terms and conditions.
One term says the warranty doesnt cover damage to the roof unless the damage results in 
water entering the home.
I understand its accepted that the problem with the roof tiles didnt lead to any water ingress. 
As a result, Im satisfied NHBC acted fairly when it declined this claim.
Another term says the warranty wont cover anything which has already been claimed for 
under the warranty  or anything resulting from something already claimed for. NHBC has 
relied on this term to decline the claim for the first floor bay window.
NHBC looked at photos provided by Mrs M. It noted water ingress to the bay window and 
mortar erosion in the brickwork above. It compared the 2022 photos with those taken in 2020 
when it considered a claim for the previous owner. It thought the photos showed the same 
problem had continued because they hadnt been repaired by the previous owner.
In 2020 NHBC declined the previous owners claim and set out the work required to put 
things right. I cant consider under this complaint how NHBC dealt with the previous owners 
claim. But its clear to me from the two reports that the same problem has continued, and the 
claim made in 2022 is materially the same as the one from 2020. And that means Im 
satisfied its fair for NHBC to decline the claim.
Whilst Mrs M may not have been aware of the problem and/or the previous claim when she 
bought the home, I dont think that makes a difference. NHBC isnt responsible for the action 
or inaction of the previous owner, so it wouldnt be fair for me to require it to deal with the 
problem now.
I can only consider whether NHBC acted fairly and reasonably in its capacity as an 
insurance provider. That is, when it considers a claim under certain sections of the warranty, 
including Section 3. I cant consider how it acted in any other capacity, for example any role 
it played in supervising and/or approving the house build. Such activities dont amount to 
insurance or form part of the insurance cover provided by the warranty.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman