DRN-3700404
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd paid commission to a financial adviser 
without his knowledge.
What happened
In 2008, Mr B received advice from a financial adviser (who I will refer to as G) to transfer 
pension benefits he had with a number of other providers into a Zurich self invested personal 
pension (SIPP).
In 2018, Zurich wrote to Mr B to tell him about an error it had discovered relating to the 
charges it had been applying to his SIPP fund. Zurich explained that when G had ceased to 
be his adviser in 2011, it had stopped paying trail commission to G. However, a monthly fund 
based charge that related to this had continued to be applied to Mr Bs SIPP. Zurich stated 
that it had now stopped this additional charge, and it sent him a cheque for £7,328.22 which 
related to the additional value his policy would have had if the additional charge had been 
stopped at the appropriate time. 
In response, Mr B asked Zurich to confirm the commission payments which had been made 
to G. Zurich stated that because the payments it had made to G related to an agreement it 
had with the adviser, it was not able to give Mr B this information. Zurich provided Mr B with 
a copy of the signed application form within which the commission costs had been agreed, 
and also an illustration produced in 2008 at policy inception which showed information 
relating to advice costs.
In 2020, Mr B wrote to Zurich again requesting that it confirm the payments that had been 
made to any advisers since 2008. He also asked Zurich to confirm what authority it had to 
make any such payments.
Zurich confirmed the total fund based charge applied over the period that commission was 
paid to 2011. It also highlighted the initial commission amounts that were shown on the 2008 
illustration. But it reiterated that if Mr B wanted confirmation of the actual commission 
amounts paid, he would need to approach G for this.
Mr B complained to Zurich that it had not addressed all the issues he had raised. He stated 
that before Zurich provided him with a copy of the SIPP application form, he had never seen 
the section that related to adviser renumeration. He noted that this section stated that it was 
to be completed by the adviser, and so he had not had to sign it separately to authorise the 
commission payments made to G.
Mr B commented that the only sections of the application form that he had signed were 
pages relating to the transferring of his benefits held with the various other pension 
providers, and a section relating to data protection. In his view, the commission payments to 
G had been made without his authorisation, and he said this was the result of Zurichs 
flawed documentation. Mr B was also unhappy that Zurich had not disclosed to him all the 
commission payments made to G, and had instead told him that he would need to obtain this 
information directly from G. He requested that Zurich pay him a sum equivalent to the 
amounts that had been paid to G since 2008.
In terms of annual statements sent to him, Mr B said that these had not confirmed the 
amounts being paid to G. He commented that Zurich had failed to show financial 
transparency. Mr B also asked for a breakdown of the £7,328.22 refund that had been paid 
to him, and he expressed his unhappiness that it had taken seven years for Zurich to 
discover that the charges on his plan had been too high.
Zurich responded that Mr Bs signature in the declaration section of the application form 
authorised the commission payments to G. It suggested that if Mr B was unhappy with the 
sales process undertaken by G that had led him to provide this authorisation, he would need 
to raise his concerns directly with G. Zurich commented that the commission basis should 
have been confirmed to Mr B by G in 2008, and it referred him again to the How much will 
the advice cost? section of the 2008 illustration. It reiterated that to obtain confirmation of 
the commission payments, Mr B would need to approach G.
Dissatisfied with Zurichs stance, Mr B brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He noted that Mr B had signed a declaration 
on the application form that authorised Zurich to deduct adviser renumeration from the 
pension fund, and that the 2008 illustration showed adviser costs. Highlighting that G was 
not a tied agent of Zurichs, the investigator said that elements of Mr Bs complaint related to 
the sales process, and therefore could be raised by Mr B with the business responsible for 
Gs actions. Overall, he considered that Zurich had responded appropriately to Mr Bs 
questions regarding the commission payments, and he didnt think that Zurich should refund 
the commission payments from 2008 to 2011 to Mr B. The investigator also forwarded to Mr 
B a breakdown that Zurich had provided of the £7,328.22 refund amount.
Mr B disagreed with the investigators findings. He has commented that parts of the copy of 
the application form that Zurich has provided are very hard to read, to the extent that he says 
they are illegible. Mr B has questioned how the application form can be considered legal, or 
sufficient for Zurich to have set up the policy, bearing in mind how difficult it is to read. He 
has also highlighted his concerns, previously made directly to Zurich, about whether the 
copy application is of the wet ink version. Mr B has expressed his view that its not 
reasonable to base an assessment of his complaint on an illegible document. He has also 
further explained his concerns with the conduct of the adviser during the sales process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At outset I should explain that any concerns Mr B has about the actions of the adviser will 
need to be addressed to the business which is responsible for the actions of G. Zurich is not 
responsible for Gs actions, and I must take that into account when assessing this complaint 
made against Zurich.
A key issue raised by Mr B relates to the legitimacy of the SIPP application form, and in 
particular whether it authorised Zurich to make commission payments to G. I would agree 
with Mr B that parts of the copy of the application form are difficult to read. However, in my 
view it is still possible to read the copy, and importantly, it is possible to read the sections 
that relate to the commission payments. I am also satisfied, based on Zurichs comments, 
that the copy application form is an accurate reproduction of the original wet ink application 
for the SIPP.Section 6 of the application form is titled Adviser renumeration. As Mr B has highlighted, 
the instructions for this section of the form are that this should be completed by the adviser, 
which was G. Both the initial commission and the trail commission percentages are 
confirmed. Mr B has said that he was not shown this completed section by G when he 
signed the application. But this relates to the actions of G, and as Ive explained, Gs actions 
are not the responsibility of Zurich.
Section 7 of the form is the Declaration, and this was signed by Mr B. It starts with the 
wording that by signing this application you are applying to make a legally binding 
agreement with Zurich. The wording of the declaration just above where Mr B signed relates 
to adviser renumeration. It says: If the Adviser section of this form specifies that any 
renumeration is to be paid to my adviser, I authorise Zurichto deduct the relevant 
payment(s) from my pension fund.
I have thought carefully about Mr Bs comments regarding the process which led to him 
signing the declaration on the application form. Having done so, my view is that Zurich acted 
reasonably when it accepted the form as authority to make commission payments to G, 
based on the completed content of the form. There was nothing in the way in which the form 
had been completed that would have led Zurich to question whether commission was 
payable to G. It therefore reasonably carried out the instructions to pay commission on the 
basis requested. Consequently, my view is that Zurich should not be required to refund to Mr 
B the commission payments made to G from 2008 to 2011. 
Although Mr B says that illegibility within the application form means that Zurich should not 
have set his policy up based upon it, on balance I do not consider its been shown that 
Zurich was at fault in this regard. It was presented with a form that it could reasonably accept 
was a valid application for a policy.
Zurich has accepted that it was in error from 2011 to 2018 in respect of the level of charges 
that it deducted from the fund value, after G had ceased to be Mr Bs adviser. However, 
Zurich refunded those charges when it discovered its error in 2018. It has now provided a 
breakdown of the compensation cheque that it sent Mr B. This explained that it had 
calculated what the fund value of the policy would have been if the correct (lower) charge 
had been applied to it, compared this to the actual fund value, and paid Mr B this difference. 
Interest was added to this figure for the period from the calculation date to the date the sum 
was paid to Mr B. Overall I consider that Zurich has satisfactorily explained how the amount 
refunded in 2018 was calculated. 
Mr B has asked Zurich to confirm the exact commission payments made to G in respect of 
his policy. In response Zurich highlighted the information shown on the illustration that was 
produced in 2008 when the policy started. A section showed how much the advice would 
cost. The monetary amount paid immediately to G was confirmed, and the basis for monthly 
payments was also explained. Zurich stated to Mr B that he would need to ask G to confirm 
to him the exact commission payments that it had received. On balance I consider that 
Zurich has acted fairly in response to Mr Bs request for information about commission 
payments.
In conclusion, my view is that in accepting the application form that was submitted to it, and 
then making commission payments to G, Zurich acted fairly. It has refunded charges 
incorrectly deducted from 2011 to 2018 to Mr B, and I consider it has responded reasonably 
to Mr Bs questions regarding commission payments. I appreciate that Mr B is likely to be 
disappointed with my findings. However, my view is that Zurich should not be required to 
take any further actions in this regard, or make any further payments to him in respect of the 
issues that he has raised his concerns about.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
John Swain
Ombudsman