DRN-4195278
The complaint
Mrs O complains that Metro Bank PLC hasnt refunded her after she fell victim to an 
investment scam.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 28 April 2023, copied below. Both parties 
have responded and accepted my findings. 
Mrs O received an email from an unknown sender on 22 March 2021. The email appeared 
to be a celebrity endorsement of cryptocurrency investment. Details were provided for how
Mrs O might get involved in such investments and she followed a link from within the 
email, to a website. She left her details and was later contacted by someone posing as a 
broker from an investment firm. This person, along with others Mrs O interacted with, was 
in fact a scammer.
The scammer talked Mrs O through the benefits of investing in cryptocurrency and the 
potential for lucrative returns. Mrs O was persuaded to invest and gave remote access to 
the scammer so they could help her set up a cryptocurrency wallet on what was a legitimate 
platform. She was also given access to what appeared to be a trading platform.
Mrs O proceeded to make a payment of £2,500 to the cryptocurrency wallet, creating a 
new payee through her online banking in the process. That same day she sent a further 
£2,500. She then sent the money on from the wallet at the scammers instruction.
By the end of the day, she was shown returns of €600. She was persuaded to invest more.
Mrs O made two further payments of £5,000 and £5,001 on 23 March 2021. Her 
apparent returns continued to increase and so she continued to invest, sending a further 
£11,000 to be invested over the course of six days and two payments.
Mrs O then decided she wanted to withdraw some of her considerable returns, which 
appeared to stand at €65,000. The scammer told her that, to do so, shed have to pay a 
20% cashflow guarantee fee to allow the withdrawal. Mrs O went on to pay this, sending 
£11,200 at the scammers instruction.
The scammer then kept telling Mrs O shed need to pay more and more money, for varying 
reasons, to withdraw her funds. Over the course of around three weeks Mrs O sent a further
£106,100 across seven payments. One of those payments was made in branch, where she 
explained she was making a payment for cryptocurrency.
Mrs O received further requests for the payment of various fees, each apparently 
necessary to complete a withdrawal of funds. She became suspicious and contacted 
Metro on 10 May 2021. In doing so the scam was revealed.
The full list of payments made to the scam are as follows:
Date Amount
22/03/2021 £2,500
22/03/2021 £2,500
23/03/2021 £5,000
23/03/2021 £5,001
25/03/2021 £10,000
29/03/2021 £1,000
05/04/2021 £11,200
05/04/2021 £6,600
12/04/2021 £12,000
14/04/2021 £17,500
19/04/2021 £20,000
23/04/2021 £20,000
23/04/2021 £20,000
30/04/2021 £10,000
Total loss £143,301
Metro began investigating and it said it would contact Mrs O with an update on 24 May 
2021. Mrs O didnt hear anything and so contacted the bank. She was promised a call-
back but never received one. She next heard from Metro on 4 June 2021, when it wrote to 
her and explained it wouldnt be refunding her loss. It also acknowledged it had provided a 
poor level of service throughout the investigation and offered an apology.
Metro said that because Mrs O had transferred the money to a cryptocurrency wallet in her 
own name, it wouldnt offer a refund.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Os case and felt it should be upheld. She was 
satisfied that Metro ought to have identified Mrs Os payment behaviour as suspicious by 
the time she made the third payment, and so should have intervened. She said, had it done 
so, the scam would have been revealed and Mrs Os loss prevented.
Our investigator said Metro ought to have known enough about cryptocurrency 
investment scams to recognise that Mrs O was at risk of harm through financial crime and 
that her losses were reasonably foreseeable to the bank. That meant it didnt matter that 
the payments went to a cryptocurrency wallet in Mrs Os name before being lost to the 
scam.
Our investigator said that Mrs O ought to have become concerned about what she was 
being told by the scammer at the point shed made the ninth payment. She found that, by 
this time, the supposed returns had become too good to be true. And she said Mrs O was 
repeatedly being asked to pay more money for all manner of fees, with the purpose of 
each payment becoming more concerning to the extent where Mrs O ought to have 
stopped what she was doing. With that in mind our investigator said Mrs O ought to bear 
shared responsibility for her losses from payment nine.
The recommendation was then that Metro should:
refund all loss on payments three through eight;
refund 50% of Mrs Os loss on payments nine through fourteen;
pay interest on the refund at 8% simple per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement; and
pay £150 in compensation for the poor handling of the complaint.
Mrs O accepted the investigators findings, but Metro did not. It maintained that it wasnt responsible for any losses as the funds had gone to Mrs Os cryptocurrency wallet. It also 
said the repeated payments to the same payee made the account activity look genuine.
Our investigator responded to endorse her findings, but Metro has since failed to respond, 
despite numerous promises of reply and chasers from us. It has now been seven months 
since Metro have engaged with our service about this complaint.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I intend to uphold the complaint, but my findings and the redress differs to the 
recommendations of our investigator.
The starting position in cases like this is that Mrs O is presumed responsible for the 
payments out of her account. Thats because, as per the Payment Service Regulations 
2017, she authorised them. However, that isnt the end of the story and Metro has 
responsibilities beyond simply executing a payment instruction it receives.
Does Metro bear any responsibility for Mrs Os loss?
Its well-established (through industry regulation, best practice standards, and this 
services approach to scam complaints) that Metro ought to have had systems and 
processes in place for identifying payments at risk to fraud. That includes monitoring 
accounts for suspicious and unusual activity.
This services approach to cryptocurrency scams has also been well-established for some 
time now, and Metro ought to be aware of this. Cryptocurrency scams have been growing 
in prevalence for several years, with the FCA specifically providing commentary on them 
as early as June 2018, including publications on its website and a Dear CEO letter. Im 
then satisfied that Metro ought to have been aware of, and on the lookout for, 
cryptocurrency scams at the time Mrs O fell victim. That includes instances where a 
customer might make payments which first go to a cryptocurrency wallet in their own 
name.
That the payments went to Mrs Os own cryptocurrency wallet doesnt remove Metros 
obligations to protect her from fraud and financial harm. The loss to her, in sending the 
money to a cryptocurrency wallet before moving it on to a fraudster, was both reasonably 
foreseeable and preventable.
The Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code doesnt apply in this case because of 
the specific provisions of the Code. Those provisions dont, however, remove Metros 
account monitoring and fraud prevention responsibilities.
Im persuaded then that Metro might be considered to bear responsibility for Mrs Os loss, 
if it is evidenced it didnt act as it ought to have done.
I can see that, between 2 October 2020 and the start of the scam, Mrs O made no faster 
payments. It wasnt a common method of payment for her. Theres also no payment out of 
her account of any similar value; all are much lower regardless of payment method. And so 
the payments made as part of the scam quickly become unusual to the extent Metro ought 
to have intervened. I find the investigators outcome, that Metro ought to have stepped in 
at payment three, is reasonable.
Im satisfied that intervention from Metro would have made a difference. Theres nothing 
to suggest Mrs O would have lied about the purpose of the payments she was making or 
how she came upon the investment opportunity. Indeed she appears to have revealed 
some of this detail when she visited a branch to make one of the scam payments. On 
hearing what Mrs O had to say Metro ought to have been immediately concerned, given all the hallmarks of a scam that were present.
Metro ought then to have highlighted the scam risk to Mrs O and attempted to dissuade 
her from proceeding, offering strong warnings and explaining the features of such scams 
in detail. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that Mrs O wouldnt have listened to the bank.
Im satisfied Metro bears responsibility for Mrs Os losses from the third payment on, given it 
could have and should have intervened and prevented the scam.
Should Mrs O bear some responsibility for her loss?
Our investigator felt Mrs O ought to have been concerned about what she was being told at 
payment nine, given what she was being told about the returns and the purpose of the fees. 
I do agree that she ought to have been concerned by these things.
However, I believe Mrs Os concerns ought to have been present from the outset, prior to 
any payment being made. Whilst there was some sophistication to the scam its important 
to consider the key features from the beginning, alongside Mrs Os actions.
Mrs O received an email from an unknown sender. There doesnt seem to be anything that 
would set it apart from a spam email and there seems to be little to no reason to trust its 
source or content from the outset. Indeed, its fair to say that spam emails are notoriously 
the source of misleading and malicious content.
Whilst there appears to be a celebrity endorsement within the email, I dont find it can be 
fairly said to stand up to any degree of scrutiny. Its only a picture of a celebrity and an 
alleged quote from them.
I cant be sure what Mrs O saw after clicking the link within the email. Shes previously 
described a video which featured further celebrity endorsement of cryptocurrency 
investment and a clip of a popular morning television programme. But I consider its very 
unlikely that this is what Mrs O was actually presented with. Theres very little evidence to 
suggest such a video existed or that celebrity endorsements were made on the TV 
programme mentioned. It might be that some video stills were edited, or something similar. 
I cant be sure, but Im not persuaded there was a genuine or convincing video clip.
Im also conscious that Mrs O appears to have carried out no checks on the scammer 
(having been given his name) or the firm the scammer claimed to work for. There were no 
steps taken to verify his or the firms legitimacy.
There appears to have been no exchanging of terms and conditions, or a 
contract/agreement between Mrs O and the investment firm. Whilst Mrs O has explained 
she provided some ID documents, this doesnt meet the reasonable expectations of how 
an investment firm might operate.
I find the rate of return Mrs O was supposedly generating to be too good to be true from the 
outset too. She was told shed made €600 on a £5,000 investment in just a matter of hours. 
I dont find that can be fairly and reasonably described as realistic or believable. And so 
when presented with such returns, I find its fair and reasonable to say Mrs O ought to have 
been suspicious and more cautious.
Mrs O has described how the scammer was helpful, appeared knowledgeable, and seemed 
trustworthy. And I understand there were some convincing looking websites involved in the 
scam. But I dont find these features outweigh the elements Ive already described. Im 
satisfied Mrs O ought to have been concerned and more cautious from the outset.
With this in mind, I find the 50% reduction in award recommended by the investigator 
ought to be applied from payment three, rather than payment nine. That the scam 
becomes less believable over time doesnt further impact the reduction in award.
What rate of interest should Metro pay on the award?
Our investigator recommended a payment of 8% simple interest per year. But Im not currently persuaded that would be fair. The money appears to have come from a savings 
account, and there dont appear to have been any plans to use the money elsewhere, and 
so that would seem to be the fair rate to award.
If Mrs O can persuasively show that a different rate is more appropriate, or that she had 
firm plans to use the money elsewhere, then Ill consider this point further. She should 
otherwise provide evidence to show the interest rate applicable to the account the funds 
originated from and statements to show the transfers made.
Should Metro pay additional compensation to Mrs O?
Metro itself admitted in its final response that it hadnt handled Mrs Os complaint well. Its a 
shame to see it didnt proactively award compensation at the time given those findings.
Mrs O was doubtless experiencing a lot of stress and worry, made worse by a lack of 
communication and broken promises on Metros part.
Our investigators recommendation of £150 seems reasonable in the circumstances.
I have also considered Metros failure to engage with our service on this complaint. I said 
earlier in this decision document that Metro had not properly responded to the investigators 
findings despite several promises, a number of chasers, and seven months having passed.
DISP 3.5.14 states:
If a respondent fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:
(1) proceed with consideration of the complaint; and
(2) include provision for any material distress or material inconvenience caused by 
that failure in any award which he decides to make.
With the circumstances of the case in mind, I intend to make a further award of £200 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs O as a result of Metros failure to comply with time 
limits and lack of engagement with this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not departing from my provisional decision as both parties have accepted it.
Mrs O has confirmed some of the money lost was borrowed from friends and family. As that 
money wasnt her own it wouldnt be fair and reasonable for an interest aware to be made on 
it. 
Her own money was held in an account with a 0% interest rate. And so there is no interest 
award to be paid there either. 
Putting things right
Upon final acceptance by Mrs O Metro should pay:
a 50% refund of the loss from payment three onward (£69,150.50);
a total of £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience.My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman