DRN-3258821
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that hes been billed £2,150.36 by HiFX Europe Limited, trading as XE, for 
cancelling a foreign exchange contract with them.
What happened
Mr S entered into a contract with XE to sell £150,000 to purchase $261,630 Australian 
dollars (AUD) with the intended purpose being to transfer money to his grandson in 
Australia. As per the contract, Mr S had to provide the £150,000 to XE by 19 January 2021.
On 18 January 2021, Mr S went to make the payment to XE, but noticed that while the 
account number was the same as that which had been used when hed made a similar 
transaction with XE previously, the sort code was different. Mr S was advised by his bank to 
speak with XE and confirm that the sort code hed been given was correct before making 
any payment. Mr S tried to contact XE about this but was unable to get through.
Mr S needed to complete the transaction quickly but was unwilling to send such a large sum 
without confirmation that the sort code was correct. So, later on 18 January, Mr S effected 
the transaction through a different company. Mr S then explained to XE that he no longer 
their service, at which time he was informed by XE that the cost for cancelling the contract 
would be £2,150.36. Mr S wasnt happy at receiving such a bill, so he raised a complaint.
XE looked at Mr Ss complaint. They explained that theyd purchased the AUD as per the 
contract, and that when Mr S cancelled the contract, theyd sold those AUD back to the 
market. However, because the currency exchange rate had moved against them, theyd 
incurred a loss, and it was because of this that theyd billed Mr S the amount that they had.
Mr S wasnt satisfied with XEs response, so he referred his complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that XE had acted unfairly in 
how theyd managed this situation, and so they didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S remained dissatisfied and felt that hed made reasonable efforts to contact XE and 
confirm the sort code with them, and that because XE hadnt been contactable, they should 
be accountable for any loss that theyd incurred. So, the matter was escalated to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr S entered into a contract with XE whereby he was required to make 
a payment of £150,000 to XE by 19 January 2021. Instead, Mr Ss position is he feels that 
because XE werent contactable on 18 January 2021, so that he could confirm the sort code 
given to him by XE as being correct, that he shouldnt be held accountable to the cancelation 
terms that were applied by XE when he didnt make the required payment to them.
I can appreciate how Mr Ss would want to exercise caution in these circumstances. But     
Mr S had done business with XE before, which would have followed a similar process, and 
while the sort code he was given in this instance may have been different to the sort code 
hed been given previously, the account number was the same. 
Furthermore, the sort code and account details that Mr S was given by XE were for an 
account held with a major UK high street bank  which was the same bank that the previous 
sort code related to. And so, it wasnt the case that the change of sort code was because of 
a change of bank, or that the bank holding the account wasnt widely known and reputable.
I also dont feel that the fact that Mr S wasnt able to contact XE by telephone when he 
attempted to do so does provide a fair and reasonable cause to consider instructing XE to 
exempt Mr S from the consequences of not completing the contract as Mr S would like. 
This is because there can be times when a businesss telephone lines can be busy. And 
while I can understand why Mr S was eager to arrange for the transfer of the money as soon 
as possible, I feel that by arranging the transfer with another company, Mr S was knowingly 
abstaining on his contractual commitments with XE, and so should fairly be considered 
accountable for any monetary penalty as stipulated in that contract as a result.
Ultimately, its difficult to see what XE did wrong here. They arranged a contract with Mr S 
and fulfilled their end of it by purchasing the AUD required by that contract and by providing 
the information to Mr S on how to make the payment to them that was required by that 
contract. And, when Mr S failed to fulfil his end of the agreed contract, XE incurred a loss 
when selling the purchased AUD back to the market  which given all the circumstances of 
this complaint I feel Mr S should fairly be held accountable for.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr S was wanting, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or instructing XE to take any further action. I hope Mr S will 
understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman