DRN-1571455
 
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) processed an online 
transaction without completing the authentication process.  
What happened
Mr A tried to make a payment to an online money transfer company (the merchant) using his 
Nationwide debit card. He didnt receive the authentication code quickly enough and the 
merchant declined the payment. He made two further attempts, both of which the merchant 
declined.
Mr A later found that the payment had left his account. He phoned Nationwide and 
complained that the payment was processed without authentication.
Nationwide explained that it released the payment on his first attempt and said that the 
merchant wouldve generated the message saying the payment was declined. And that 
wasnt something it had control over. Mr A was dissatisfied with Nationwides response and 
complained about its failure to look into his concerns and the way the agent dealt with his 
call. To resolve his complaint, he would like Nationwide to apologise and pay him 
compensation for his trouble and upset.
Our investigator didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong. He explained that a 
screenshot of Nationwides system showed the payment going through first time. He also 
explained that if Nationwide had declined the payment it wouldnt have gone through at all. 
Therefore, the message saying the payment was declined mustve been generated by the 
merchant.
Our investigator listened to the call between Mr A and Nationwide but he didnt think that the 
agent was unprofessional. He also looked at Nationwides response to Mr A and felt it had 
addressed his concerns appropriately. 
Mr A didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise my decision will disappoint Mr A, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain why.
I understand that Mr A intended to make a payment to the online merchant and his 
dissatisfaction lies with the authentication process. The payment left his account even 
though he hadnt received or input an authentication code and the payment showed as 
declined. Having looked at the evidence, its clear that the payment went through on the first attempt. 
While Mr A may not have received an authentication code, I can see that Nationwide made it 
clear in its literature, on its website and during the call that a code wont be required for 
every online transaction. 
I think its likely the merchant displayed a message saying the payment was declined. Mr A 
hadnt input an authentication code for the transaction yet the merchant went on to process 
the payment anyway. So, its likely that the payment was temporarily declined by the 
merchant due to system delays rather than anything Nationwide did. Im satisfied that it 
explained this to Mr A when he complained. For clarity, although Mr A attempted to make the 
payment three times, Nationwide has evidenced just one payment leaving his account. 
I think its important to add that even if the message didnt come from the merchant, I dont 
think this situation caused Mr A any real problems. I say this because Mr A intended to make 
the payment and Nationwide processed it. He later received a message to say it had gone 
through. Nationwide have said it did so on the first attempt. So in all I dont think it did 
anything wrong here or that this situation has caused Mr A any material inconvenience such 
that it would warrant compensation. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr A and Nationwide and looked at its response to his 
complaint. Nationwide listened to Mr As concerns on the call and logged his complaint. It 
explained the authentication process and apologised that when he received a code it was 
too late for the transaction. But as the payment was processed without the need for a code, I 
dont think Nationwide needs to apologise again. 
Its not clear why Mr A feels the agent didnt handle his call appropriately. I can understand 
that Mr A mightve been frustrated by his experience when making the online payment, but I 
think the agent responded appropriately to his complaint and offered a reasonable 
explanation for what had happened. I havent identified anything in the call which causes me 
to think the agent was unprofessional, so I see no reason to ask Nationwide to compensate 
Mr A. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman