DRN-2616535
The complaint
Mr M complains that Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, unfairly dealt with a claim he made under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s75).
The complaint has been brought by a relative of Mr Ms but, for ease of reference, I will refer 
only to Mr M, as the credit agreement was taken out by him. 
What happened
In 2015, Mr M decided to have a new kitchen fitted at his home. He chose a luxury kitchen 
from a retailer and paid a deposit. Mr M then arranged for a credit agreement with Hitachi to 
pay for the supply and fitting of the kitchen. The agreement started in October 2015 and was 
for 96 months.
Unfortunately, some time after the installation of the kitchen, the supplying retailer ceased 
trading.
In the summer of 2018, Mr M raised issues about the quality and fitting of the kitchen with 
Hitachi. He said, not only had it been poorly fitted, but he had ordered sheer gloss acrylic 
doors and not vinyl wrap, which were now peeling. Hitachi requested various documentation 
was provided to support his complaint. However, although Hitachi chased up the required 
documentation a number of times, Mr M didnt reply and so, in September 2018, it closed the 
complaint.
Mr M re-contacted Hitachi in December 2019, and it arranged to have the kitchen inspected 
by an independent third-party company. The engineer reported that they had found the 
bench that had been fitted was not sufficiently fixed or sealed to the wall; a door had fallen 
off the island unit and needed repair; the quartz worktop had been poorly installed and not 
adequately secured to the units; many of the unit doors were delaminating and required 
replacing, as did the pelmets and plinths, and the oven required an electrician to inspect the 
cause of it tripping the homes electrics.
In light of the inspection report, Hitachi offered Mr M £5,000 in order for the remedial works, 
that had been found necessary, to be carried out. It said that, in making this offer, it had 
considered the amount of use Mr M would have had of the kitchen. Hitachi also said that, 
looking at the paperwork, there was no evidence that Mr M hadnt ordered the units that had 
been delivered and these were the vinyl wrap ones.
Mr M declined this offer. He said he had ordered a luxury kitchen, and that the cost of repairs 
would exceed the amount offered. Hitachi agreed to have the kitchen inspected by a second 
independent third-party company.
The second engineer reported that the issue with the oven, causing the electrics to trip, was 
due to it being a 16-amp plugged into a 13amp ring main, and this needed correcting. They 
also said the worktops had been poorly fitted and needed to be reinstalled; the doors, 
drawers and cornice, pelmets and plinths needed to be replaced due to poor manufacture, 
and the bench needed to be refitted and resealed. The engineer said that an issue with the 
oven light which had been raised was due to wear and tear. 
Hitachi said it would agree for the first third-party company and a quartz specialist to attend 
Mr Ms home and carry out the remedial work that had been identified, or alternatively 
provide the £5,000 lump sum to cover this work. It also offered £165 to Mr M as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr M declined the offer and asked Hitachi if it would arrange for a different style of kitchen to 
be fitted. Hitachi declined this request and said that its remedy was to provide a like for like 
replacement for the doors, and so these would be vinyl wrap.
Mr M said that the kitchen he had agreed to purchase had been a luxury one. He said the 
contract for the supply of the kitchen had been breached and misrepresented to him, and the 
agreement should be rescinded. 
Hitachi said that, although it was upholding Mr Ms complaint, it didnt agree the kitchen had 
been misrepresented, and was not changing the resolution it had offered of either a lump 
sum payment or to arrange for the remedial work to be undertaken.
Mr M was unhappy at Hitachis settlement offer and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said she thought 
Hitachis offer had been fair and reasonable.
Mr M disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said the kitchen wasnt what he had 
paid for, and he was concerned the vinyl wrap could again peel off in the years to come. He 
also said he didnt think that £5,000 was sufficient to have the necessary repairs carried out, 
as he had received far larger quotes from other companies in the past. Mr M said that the 
faults with the kitchen have had a significant impact on both himself and the family.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  gives  a consumer,  in certain  circumstances,  an 
equal  right to claim  against  the supplier  of goods  or services  and the provider  of credit,  if 
there  has been  a misrepresentation  or breach  of contract  by the supplier.  And my role is to 
decide  whether  Hitachi  handled  Mr M's s75 claim  fairly  and reasonably.  It isnt in my remit  
to look at the service  that was provided  by the retailer  to Mr M.
Here,  Mr M had ordered  a kitchen  to be supplied  and installed  by a retailer  and arranged  for 
a credit  agreement  with Hitachi  to cover  the costs  of that. It isnt disputed  that the kitchen  
was poorly  fitted,  and that the unit doors  were  of poor quality.  However,  Mr M also says  that 
the kitchen  was misrepresented  to him, and it would  therefore  be fair to rescind  the 
agreement.
I think  it was fair for Hitachi  to ask Mr M for the paperwork  regarding  his order  and for 
evidence  of the issues  with the kitchen,  particularly  as it wasnt  able to contact  the retailer  
who was no longer  trading.  So, although  I have  seen  that Mr M made  contact  with Hitachi  in 
2018,  I dont  think  it has delayed  in carrying  out its investigation.
Hitachi  said it didnt  uphold  Mr Ms complaint  that the kitchen  had been  mis-sold  to him, and 
I think  that was a fair conclusion  for it to make  on the information  it received.  I dont  know  what  was said between  the retailer  and Mr M, and so I think  Hitachi  was acting  reasonably  
when  it considered  the paperwork  provided  in deciding  whether  the kitchen  doors  ordered  
were  gloss  acrylic  or vinyl wrapped.  The kitchen  is only described  as white  gloss  and I 
dont  think  that is enough  to say the kitchen  units  installed  werent  the ones  ordered  by Mr 
M, or that they had been  represented  as being  of a different  construction  than they actually  
were.  While  I appreciate  Mr M feels  strongly  the kitchen  isnt luxury  I cant  reasonably  say 
that it was misrepresented  to him.
Hitachi  arranged  for an independent  inspection  of the kitchen,  which  confirmed  Mr Ms 
complaints  about  the peeling  cupboard  doors,  poorly  fitted  worktops  and an island  and 
bench  that werent  properly  secured.  The second  inspection  also revealed  that the oven  
had been  plugged  into the wrong  amp main  ring. Hitachi  has accepted  that the kitchen  
requires  remedial  works  to bring  it up to standard  and has offered  to arrange  for third-party  
companies  to carry  out those  remedial  works.  Alternatively,  it has offered  £5,000  for Mr M 
to arrange  for the works  himself.
Mr M says  that he has been  advised  by companies  he approached  that to repair  his kitchen  
would  cost significantly  more  than the amount  offered  by Hitachi.  However,  he has been  
unable  to produce  any reports  or quotes  in that regard.
While  I accept  that Mr M is concerned  about  the offer made  by Hitachi  being  inadequate,  I 
think  its reasonable  to note that it has also offered  to arrange  for these  works  to be 
undertaken.  I also think  Hitachi  was entitled  to consider,  when  calculating  a lump  sum offer, 
that Mr M has had use of the kitchen  since  it was fitted.  I appreciate  the kitchen  has been  a 
disappointment  to Mr M and hasnt  been  as durable  as would  be reasonably  expected,  but I 
think  its reasonable  to say he has been  able to use it and the kitchen  will have  incurred  
some  wear  and tear.
Mr M doesnt  agree  that the oven  light not working  is wear  and tear, but I havent  seen  any 
evidence  that the independent  engineer  who inspected  it was wrong  when  they formed  that 
opinion.  I think  after this length  of time wear  and tear is inevitable.
Mr M was also concerned  that the worktops  fitted  werent  the quartz  he ordered,  as it didnt  
have  the shine  he expected.  However,  both independent  engineers  who inspected  it 
confirmed  that it was quartz  and, looking  at the order  form,  Ive seen  that the original  
worktop  was altered  to the one that was fitted.  So, I dont  have  any evidence  that the 
worktop  that was supplied  wasnt  the one ordered  by Mr M, or that it was misrepresented  as 
being  quartz  when  it was something  else.
I appreciate  Mr M has lost confidence  that the kitchen  will be durable  being  constructed  
from vinyl wrap  but, on the evidence  that Ive seen  and as set out above,  Im satisfied  that 
the kitchen  is what  Mr M ordered.  So, I dont  think  its reasonable  to require  Hitachi  to now 
arrange  for a different  specification  of kitchen  to be fitted.
Mr M is unhappy  at the £165  compensation  offered  by Hitachi.  He says  he and his family  
have  suffered  distress  and inconvenience  over the kitchen.  In particular,  the oven  tripping  
the electrics,  has meant  that at times  there  was disrupted  power  for his home.  However,  as 
set out above,  I have  to consider  how Hitachi  has handled  Mr Ms claim,  not the service  
provided  by the retailer.  And I think  it has acted  fairly  by investigating  and arranging  
independent  reports  without  unnecessary  delay.
So, I think  the offer of £165  for the distress  and inconvenience  of bringing  this claim  is fair 
and Im not going  to ask it to do more.
For the reasons  given  above,  Im partially  upholding  Mr Ms complaint.  Putting things right
 Im asking Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do the following:
Arrange  for a third-party  company  to exchange  the 13-amp  socket  to a 16-amp  one 
for the oven.
Arrange  for a third-party  company  who is a specialist  in quartz  to remove,  reinstall  
and bed down  the existing  quartz  worktop
Arrange  for a third-party  company  to repair  the carcass  hinge  holes  in the island  
unit, replace  all doors,  drawers,  plinths,  pelmets  and cornices  and fix and seal the 
bench.
Pay Mr M £165  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  of having  to make  
a claim  under  s75.
Alternatively,  if Mr M chooses,
Pay Mr M £5,000  for the remedial  work  required  on the kitchen
Pay Mr M £165  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  of having  to make  
a claim  under  s75.
My final decision
For the reasons given above Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. Im asking Hitachi 
Capital (UK) Plc to do the following:
Arrange  for a third-party  company  to exchange  the 13-amp  socket  to a 16-amp  one 
for the oven.
Arrange  for a third-party  company  who is a specialist  in quartz  to remove,  reinstall  
and bed down  the existing  quartz  worktop
Arrange  for a third-party  company  to repair  the carcass  hinge  holes  in the island  
unit, replace  all doors,  drawers,  plinths,  pelmets  and cornices  and fix and seal the 
bench.
Pay Mr M £165  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  of having  to make  
a claim  under  s75.
Alternatively,  if Mr M chooses ,
Pay Mr M £5,000  for the remedial  work  required  on the kitchen
Pay Mr M £165  compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience  of having  to make  
a claim  under  s75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 March 2021. 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman