DRN-3105076
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Close Brothers Limited handled his request for a payment 
freeze.
What happened
Mr H had a credit agreement with Close Brothers which was linked to his car insurance 
policy. Around March last year, he contacted Close Brothers asking for a payment freeze 
because he was experiencing financial difficulties as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Close Brothers agreed to a payment freeze for one month and adjusted Mr Hs account, so 
the balance he owed would be spread across his remaining payments.
The following month, Mr H reached out to Close Brothers to request a further payment 
freeze. Close Brothers explained it couldnt agree to this and referred Mr H to his insurance 
broker. Mr H contacted Close Brothers in May  he was unhappy that a payment had been 
taken despite his request for a payment freeze and referred to a call with the lender, during 
which he says he was given the impression that a further payment freeze had been granted. 
Mr H later reversed this payment via his bank.
After Mr H complained, Close Brothers reiterated that any further changes to Mr Hs 
agreement would need to be initiated by his insurance broker. Close Brothers also 
apologised for any frustration Mr H experienced. 
Mr H remained unhappy and asked this service to review the matter. One of our 
investigators decided that Close Brothers had acted fairly. The investigator referred to the 
automated message Mr H listened to over the phone and explained why it seemed like his 
May repayment wasnt due. But the investigator was of the view that it was clear to Mr H that 
a further payment freeze hadnt been granted. 
Mr H didnt agree and asked for a final decision on the matter. Mr H makes reference to 
several rules and regulations and refers to our powers, stating that hes due compensation. 
Hes also adamant that he was misled over the phone and feels Close Brothers didnt live up 
to the requirement to treat customers fairly.
The complaint has therefore come to me for a final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Our investigator helpfully referred to the relevant rules introduced by the regulator around 
the time to support customers facing difficulties because of the pandemic  so I wont set 
these out again here. The agreement Mr H had with Close Brothers was a little different to a 
typical loan or credit card, in that it was arranged via Mr Hs insurance broker so that he 
could pay for his car insurance policy in monthly instalments. 
Close Brothers says that it chose not to agree a payment freeze a second time because it 
had Mr Hs best interests in mind. The lender says that, had it agreed a further payment 
freeze, there was a likelihood that it wouldve extended Mr Hs payments past his insurance 
renewal period. Close Brothers says it wanted to avoid a scenario where Mr H would be 
paying for his existing car insurance policy and a new one at the same time. So it referred 
Mr H to his insurance broker to discuss and arrange.
I think Close Brothers acted fairly by doing so. When Mr H reached out to Close Brothers, he 
explained the difficulties he faced at the time. So Close Brothers had a responsibility to 
ensure the steps it takes to support Mr H are appropriate for him and that it doesnt create 
further difficulties for him at a later stage. Close Brothers acted appropriately in the first 
instance, by agreeing a payment freeze when Mr H first requested it  and it did so before 
the measures introduced by the regulator around the time came into force. By the second 
request, Close Brothers determined that agreeing an additional payment freeze may cause a 
longer-term detriment to Mr H. So Im satisfied referring Mr H to his insurance broker was 
reasonable. 
I can see from the information on file that Mr Hs insurance broker later arranged a further 
payment freeze for him and worked with Close Brothers to amend Mr Hs agreement. Im 
pleased that Mr H was able to manage his payments for the remainder of his agreement.
Mr H is unhappy that, when he called Close Brothers in May, the automated message 
informed him his next payment was due in June. The lender says that, by the time this call 
took place, the payment cycle for Mr Hs May payment had already begun. So the system 
automatically referred to the June payment as the next payment that was due. Mr H took this 
to mean the payment freeze for May had been granted, which wasnt the case. 
Mr H feels misled and says he was left distressed after receiving an email from his bank 
about a lack of funds in his account, which he says was a result of the unexpected payment 
being taken. As I mentioned, Mr H made reference to multiple rules and regulations arguing 
why he thinks compensation is warranted. 
I dont think its worthwhile commenting specifically on the different rules and regulations 
Mr H has mentioned. As much as we take into account the law, codes and good practice, I 
have a duty to resolve complaints based on what I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
I can understand why Mr H feels he was misled, give the next repayment date mentioned in 
the call was the following month. But, keeping fairness in mind, at no point did Close 
Brothers confirm to Mr H that a further payment freeze had been granted. I can see from the 
lenders notes that it replied to Mr Hs correspondence in May explaining that a further 
payment freeze would not be granted and referred him to his insurance broker. So, despite 
the automated message, on balance, I think Mr H knew a further payment freeze hadnt 
been granted. Mr H also references a later call where he claims he was misled. Ive 
considered the notes from this call and I cant see anything that suggests he was given 
misleading information. 
Mr H wants compensation for the distress he says he suffered. But our powers only allow me 
to award compensation where I think the business has done something wrong or acted 
unfairly. Its unfortunate timing that Mr H called the lender just as the payment cycle for his 
May payment had begun. But, in this instance, Im not of the view that Close Brothers did 
something wrong or treated Mr H unfairly. I dont doubt that the situation was frustrating and distressing for him  but I dont think Close Brothers caused this, so I wont be asking it to 
pay compensation.
To summarise, I think Close Brothers acted fairly when it referred Mr H to his insurance 
broker to discuss a further payment freeze. This wasnt agreed to, so I dont think the lender 
did anything wrong by going ahead with collecting the payment for May. And Im satisfied 
Mr H wasnt misled during his interactions with Close Brothers.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman