DRN-1812735
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Financial Administration Services Limited trading as Fidelity 
International (Fidelity), caused delays in completing a stocks and shares ISA transfer. 
Mrs K has been represented by Mr K throughout this complaint and during the transfer 
process with Fidelity. All references to Mrs K will include information provided by Mr K.
What happened
Mrs K held a stocks and shares ISA (the ISA) with a provider Ill refer to as R. On 7 June 
2019 she initiated an online transfer request to move the ISA to Fidelity, which was 
processed on the same. Before making this request, Mrs K sold her shares so the transfer 
was in cash only. A summary of the key events (all in 2019), are as follows:
7 June  transfer requested but rejection notice said ceding account number was 
incorrect;
12 June  the account details are checked by Fidelity and the request is resubmitted. 
Its rejected again;
18 June  Fidelity speaks with Mr K who says R hasnt heard from Fidelity;
19 and 20 June  Fidelity calls Mrs K but is unable to reach her;
20 June  rejection notice;
24 June  Fidelity writes to Mrs K to explain the rejection reasons;
25 June  R clarifies the reason for the rejections  Mrs K selected the incorrect 
other plan manager details;
27 June  Fidelity resubmit the request but its rejected; 
28 June  Fidelity writes to Mrs K confirming the transfer request. Another rejection 
notice says investment a/c is invalid or not recognised;
3 July  Fidelity writes to Mrs K to explain the rejection reasons;
8 July  rejection notice received  R said Mrs K doesnt hold a stocks and shares 
ISA and asks Fidelity to submit a Cash ISA form;
10, 11, 12, 15 July  Fidelity speaks to Mrs K and Mr K. Amongst other things, it asks 
Mrs K to complete a Cash ISA form;
16 July - R requests Fidelitys bank details so payment can be made;
26 July  CHAPS payment received by Fidelity but system status shows the ISA 
transfer rejected. Fidelity seeks clarification from R;
29 July  the CHAPS payment is credited to Mrs Ks ISA account with Fidelity;
1 August  instruction to purchase investments;
2 August  investments purchased;
3 August  Fidelity writes to Mrs K confirming investments have been purchased.
 
Mrs K complained to Fidelity about the delay in transferring the ISA. She said it shouldnt 
have taken longer than 30 calendar days as set out on a government website. She was also 
unhappy about chasing things up with R and Fidelity only to be told the problem was with 
Fidelity. She said Fidelity also ignored information requests and didnt call back when 
requested to do so. Further, Mrs K noted Fidelity maintained the settlement was made by 
cheque adding to the delay, whereas R provided proof of a payment made by CHAPS 
(Clearing House Automated Payment System).
In summary, Fidelity said it couldnt be held responsible for the delays complained of. It 
acknowledged it had to resubmit the transfer requests multiple times, but said the reasons 
for this, were outside its control. Fidelity confirmed the transfer payment was received by 
CHAPS rather than cheque. Whilst it said it didnt cause any of the delays complained of, 
Fidelity agreed to give Mrs K a £25 gift card for a delay in responding to her complaint. 
Unhappy with Fidelitys response, Mrs K referred the matter to our service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. In brief, she didnt think Fidelity had caused the 
problems that had led to the delay with the transfer. And she considered Fidelity had 
regularly kept Mrs K up to date with the issues it was experiencing with her transfer request. 
Mrs K disagreed and asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Before I explain why this is the 
case, I think its important for me to note I very much recognise Mrs Ks and her 
representatives strength of feeling about this matter. Mrs K and her representative have 
provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered 
carefully. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues. Further, 
where theres a dispute its for me to decide, based on the information Ive been given, 
whats more likely than not to have happened.
The transfer
I can see from the outset, that Mrs K was told by Fidelity that the transfer can take up to six 
weeks  this was set out in its letter to Mrs K dated 10 June. And in its Moving your 
investments to Fidelity information leaflet, Fidelity notes in some cases transfers can take 
considerably longer. So although Mrs K was told her transfer could take up to six weeks, 
this wasnt guaranteed.
Mrs K refers to the government website which says transfers should take no longer than 
30 calendar days. In this case, the transfer took 52 days in total. The transfer request was 
made on 7 June and the money was paid into Mrs Ks (Fidelity) ISA account on 29 July. This 
was clearly over what the government website estimates and over the timescale outlined by 
Fidelity itself. But how long it takes can depend on many factors such as how long it takes 
the current provider to respond to requests and whether the necessary documents are 
completed correctly. For me to uphold this complaint, Id need to be satisfied that Fidelity 
delayed the transfer of the ISA in some unreasonable way.
In this case, after Mrs K submitted her request there followed a number of rejections as 
outlined in the timeline above. By way of background, the industry-wide electronic system 
used to move ISAs from one provider (platform) to another is designed to be totally 
automated. So if theres a mismatch of information between the application form and what 
information is held by the current provider, the request is rejected. The automated system 
also doesnt check for other mismatches  instead once a mismatch is rectified, then the 
system looks for any others when the application is resubmitted. The initial mismatch was an issue around the selection of the correct provider. When 
completing the online transfer form, Mrs K was presented with a choice of three names. 
Unfortunately, she selected the incorrect provider. I also note that the automated transfer 
system doesnt precisely describe the correct rejection reasoning  there are a set of pre-
determined classifications but more information is needed by the receiving ISA provider to 
establish the exact reasons for the rejection. So whilst Fidelity received the initial rejection on 
7 June, rechecking then resubmitting it a number of times after this, the exact reasons for 
the error message was only clarified by R on 25 June. 
Therefore the initial mistake of choosing the incorrect provider led to a delay of eighteen 
days (7 June to 25 June). And without this initial delay, Fidelitys six week timescale 
wouldve been met and the government estimated timescale of 30 days wouldve only been 
missed by four days. But more rejections were to follow which led to further delays.
Once the initial mistake was correctly identified, Fidelity sent a further request to R on 
27 June but again, it received a rejection notice. This time, the message received from the 
automated system was that the account was invalid or not recognised. Fidelity was told by R 
on 8 July the reason for this was that Mrs K didnt hold a stocks and shares ISA. R 
requested a Cash ISA form be submitted. Mrs K refused when asked to do so by Fidelity. 
Whilst I understand her reluctance to complete another form and I make no criticism of her 
for that, at the same time, I cant hold Fidelity responsible for the delay that followed. It was 
acting in accordance with what it had been told by R. So I cant fairly hold it responsible for a 
delay it didnt cause.
Ultimately, R did agree to transfer the funds without the need for another form. Fidelity 
received payment via CHAPS on (Friday) 26 July. However, the system still showed a 
rejection notice. So Fidelity didnt immediately pay the funds into Mrs Ks ISA account until it 
received clarification from R, which I think is fair under these circumstances. 
The funds were then paid into Mrs Ks account on (Monday) 29 July, so the first working day 
after the payment was received. I can see she gave instructions to purchase her investments 
on 1 August. Mrs Ks representative said the transfer wasnt complete until 3 August but this 
is the date a letter was sent to Mrs K to confirm her investment instructions had been 
completed, not the date the transfer was completed. The transfer was completed on 29 July 
when the funds were paid into Mrs Ks new ISA account. Given she gave instructions to 
purchase her investments before receiving the letter on 3 August, Im satisfied, on balance, 
she had access to this account before then.
Mrs K wants an explanation about the various gaps in the timeline. Whilst there are gaps 
between certain events, for the reasons Ive outlined, I dont think gaps were the result of 
unreasonable delays on Fidelitys part. ISA providers are expected to chase matters within a 
reasonable timeframe when, for example, theyve not heard anything from the other 
provider. Im satisfied, on balance, that Fidelity responded to the rejection notices in a 
reasonably timely way throughout the transfer process.
All in all, whilst I agree the transfer was outside the expected timescales, I cant fairly 
conclude this was the result of Fidelity causing unreasonable delays.
Customer service
Mrs K complains about the overall customer service she received from Fidelity  she says 
she didnt receive requested call backs and was left in a situation where she was having to 
chase up the respective providers. For example, Mrs K says she didnt receive the calls 
Fidelity says it made on 19 and 20 June. But on balance, as evident from the timeline above, Im satisfied Fidelity made reasonable attempts to keep in contact with Mrs K and/ or her 
representative when appropriate, both in writing and by phone.
Mrs K says she expected Fidelity to be capable of doing the transfer without her 
involvement. But this all depended on a number of factors. Due the rejection notices, the 
initial one resulting from a mistake made by Mrs K, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair 
for Fidelity to ask for clarifications about these issues from Mrs K and/ or R when needed.
Mrs K highlights a clerical error made in a letter from Fidelity about how the payment from R 
was made. On balance, Im satisfied this error didnt cause any unnecessary delays, and/ or 
affect the transfer in any material way. Further, I note Fidelity offered Mrs K £25 as it said 
there was a delay in answering her complaint. But overall, I dont think Fidelity caused any 
unreasonable delays. So Ill leave Mrs K to decide whether she wishes to accept this offer.
For all these reasons, whilst I know Mrs K will be disappointed with this outcome, I wont be 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman