DRN-4361819
The complaint
Miss F is complaining about Go Car Credit Limited (GCC). She says they shouldnt have lent 
to her because the repayments werent affordable.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss F took out a hire purchase agreement with GCC to finance the 
purchase of a car. She paid no deposit and borrowed £5,495  the cash price of the vehicle. 
The agreement required Miss F to make 36 monthly repayments of £267.40. Miss F first 
missed a payment in May 2021. She made up the missed payment over the months that 
followed but her payments became more erratic after that.
Miss F complained to GCC in January 2023, saying they hadnt carried out enough checks 
at the point of sale to ensure the agreement was affordable for her.
In response, GCC said they had performed a creditworthiness assessment before deciding 
to lend to Miss F. They said theyd done a credit check which showed all open accounts 
were up to date at the time of the application apart from one defaulted account which had a 
balance of £71. There were two county court judgments (CCJs) against Miss F from 2018 
which totalled £1,383. GCC said theyd also confirmed Miss Fs personal circumstances  
shed been with her employer for three years and had been at her address, as a council 
tenant, for five years.
GCC were happy with the above so went on to conduct an income and expenditure 
assessment. They said they checked Miss Fs income to bank statements, payslips and 
benefit letters and calculated this averaged around £1,915. GCC said Miss F told them her 
monthly expenditure totalled around £1,115. Using a £300 buffer, GCC determined Miss F 
had available income of around £500 so the monthly repayments of £267.40 ought to be 
affordable for her. 
In summary, GCC said theyd taken reasonable and proportionate steps to ensure the 
agreement was affordable for Miss F so they werent upholding her complaint.
Miss F remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to our service. She said she had 
high levels of credit at the time of the lending decision and wasnt making payments towards 
any of these. She added that her bank statements showed she had little money left over at 
the end of each month and spent impulsively. So she said the lending was irresponsible as it 
led to her levels of debt increasing further.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She said she thought 
GCC had done reasonable checks and fairly determined that the agreement was affordable 
for Miss F. 
Miss F rejected our investigators view. She disagreed with the figures our investigator had 
used for income, and said GCC hadnt asked for payslips or bank statements or any other 
documents  theyd only asked for her income and expenditure. Miss F also said she had a 
young child at the time and was pregnant with a second and had over £15,000 in debt. She 
asked for an ombudsmans decision  and its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and recognising itll be disappointing for Miss F, Im not upholding her 
complaint. My reasons are broadly the same as our investigators  Ill explain below.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out in a part of its handbook known as CONC 
what lenders must do when deciding whether or not to lend to a consumer. In summary, a 
firm must consider a customers ability to make repayments under the agreement without 
having to borrow further to meet repayments or default on other obligations, and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial situation. 
CONC says a firm must carry out checks which are proportionate to the individual 
circumstances of each case. 
Did GCC carry out proportionate checks?
GCC said they carried out the following checks:
reviewed Miss Fs credit file;
checked her income to bank statements, payslips and benefits documents; and
asked Miss F about her expenditure and calculated that she had around £500 
available from which to make repayments.
Although Miss F said GCC hadnt asked her for bank statements, payslips or other 
documents, GCC have provided us with Miss Fs bank statements from the three months 
before the agreement  so Im satisfied they did obtain these. I cant see that they obtained 
payslips or benefits documents but bank statements can provide a more complete picture of 
income and expenditure so I cant say they needed to get any other proof of Miss Fs 
income.
Whether or not these checks were proportionate depends on various factors, including the 
size and length of the loan, the cost of credit, and what the checks showed. GCC havent 
provided a copy of the credit file they looked at, so Ive reviewed the one Miss F provided. 
This shows that at the time of the lending, Miss F had two CCJs, totalling £1,383, a default in 
relation to water bills, with a balance of £1,552, and a default with a debt collector in relation 
to telecommunications with a balance of £240. 
None of the defaults and CCJs had occurred within the six months prior to the lending 
decision. So there were indicators that Miss F had been in financial difficulties, but less so in 
the recent months.
Miss F says she had debts of around £15,000 including £6,000 in council tax arrears and 
£1,400 rent arrears at the time of the agreement but I havent seen any evidence of these. 
And although she says they were disclosed to GCC at the time, I cant see that on any of the 
documentation available  so its difficult to say GCC should have been aware of these.
Having said that, GCC checked Miss Fs income and asked her what her expenditure was. 
CONC allows a firm to use a customers estimate of their expenditure when carrying out an 
assessment of affordability. So I cant say GCC acted unreasonably in doing so. And if 
Miss F didnt include the payments she needed to make for council tax and rent when telling 
GCC what her expenditure was I cant say that GCC should have factored this in to their 
calculations.Ive reviewed the bank statements available to GCC to check whether there were any other 
indicators that the repayments might be unaffordable. I can see Miss Fs income from 
employment and benefits was regular if somewhat variable. But on average in the three 
months prior to the loan, it was around £1,950, similar to the figure GCC calculated. The 
bank statements also show Miss F had a large number of transactions both in and out of her 
account. Many of these were personal transfers, to and from Miss Fs other bank accounts, 
and to and from other individuals. But I cant say that should have been a cause for concern 
for GCC. I havent seen any particular indicators from the bank statements that Miss F would 
struggle to make repayments for this loan agreement  for example, they show Miss F had 
significant levels of discretionary expenditure at the time. This is consistent with Miss Fs 
testimony that she spent impulsively.
In summary, I cant see that any of the checks GCC carried out or any of the information 
they obtained should have prompted them to do more checks or to decide not to lend to 
Miss F. Im satisfied the checks they did were proportionate.
Did GCC make a fair lending decision?
GCC carried out a full income and expenditure assessment using income theyd checked to 
Miss Fs bank statements and expenditure figures Miss F gave them. After deducting a 
buffer of £300 they calculated that Miss F had available disposable income of £500 per 
month. On that basis Im satisfied it was fair and reasonable for them to decide the monthly 
repayments of £237.40 were affordable for Miss F and therefore Im satisfied they made a 
fair lending decision.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Fs complaint about Go Car Credit Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman