DRN-4289617
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains that Ageas Insurance Limited incorrectly rejected a claim 
on its buildings insurance policy and failed to notify it of the decision.
What happened
C owns a building which is divided into flats. In November 2022 during bad weather, water 
came into the building through the roof causing a lot of damage. C contacted its insurance 
broker, who notified Ageas of a claim.
C instructed a loss assessor to deal with the matter. The brokers contacted Ageas a few 
weeks later to say repairs to the roof had been completed. Ageas received a mandate 
signed by C giving the loss assessors details for Ageas to communicate with the loss 
assessor. 
Ageas instructed a loss adjuster to look into the claim. Correspondence followed between 
the loss adjuster and Cs loss assessor.
C later contacted Ageas about the claim, saying it hadnt heard anything and wanted to know 
if the claim would be covered. Ageas then issued a final response saying it had looked into 
Cs complaint and confirming that the claim would not be covered. Ageas said: 
it was for C to prove there was an insured peril and it hadnt done this as C hadnt 
proved the damage to the roof was caused by a storm; and
it hadnt written to C with a formal decision but had corresponded with the loss 
assessor in line with the mandate provided that said the loss assessor was acting on 
Cs behalf.
C complained to this service that Ageas had never sent a letter formally giving a decision on 
the claim and had provided a response to a complaint before any complaint had been 
lodged. C said Ageas had manufactured a complaint and it had never had the opportunity to 
discuss the matter with Ageas.
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. C disagrees 
and has requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy provides cover for storm damage and there doesnt appear to be any dispute 
there were storm conditions at the time of the incident. The issue for me to decide is whether 
it was fair for Ageas to say C hadnt shown the damage was caused by the storm.
In the first instances its for the policyholder to show there was an insured incident and to 
prove their claim. Its only once they have done this that the burden would then shift to the 
insurer to show its entitled to rely on an exclusion or breach of a condition to reject a claim 
that would otherwise be covered.
Ageas isnt seeking to rely on an exclusion or breach of condition. Its not, for example, 
saying the damage was due to wear and tear, which is excluded. What Ageas says is that C 
hasnt proved its claim.
C instructed a loss assessor to deal with the issue. The loss assessor arranged for 
scaffolding to be put up and for repairs to be carried out. It says this was necessary as 
several contractors had inspected the building and said this needed to be done. I appreciate 
C needed to take steps to secure the property but it went ahead with repairs without input 
from Ageas. By the time its loss adjuster was able to visit, the work had been done. And 
there was no evidence to prove what had caused the damage  for example an experts 
report or any photos or video evidence. The roofing contractors who inspected the building 
all said they couldnt say where the water was getting in.
On this basis, C hasnt shown there was storm damage. C says the roof was quite new, and 
has provided a building regulations certificate from a few months before in support of this. It 
says this shows the roof couldnt have suffered from wear and tear. But Ageas is not arguing 
that it was. It is simply saying theres no evidence confirming what caused the damage, and 
so no evidence of an insured peril. And Ageas says that as all the work was done quickly, 
without its involvement, it wasnt given the opportunity to inspect the damage or approve the 
work.
For these reasons I think Ageas decision was fair; in relation to the damage to the roof, C 
hasnt proved its claim.
There was some internal water damage and Ageas has accepted Cs claim in relation to that 
since the policy included cover for such damage. Thats a separate issue and doesnt in itself 
show the damage to the roof was storm damage.
C is unhappy about the way the claim was dealt with and the lack of anything in writing from 
Ageas confirming its decision. C had authorised a loss assessor to deal with the matter and 
to receive communication from Ageas on its behalf. So Ageas corresponded with the loss 
assessor. It may not have sent a formal letter setting out its decision but there was email 
correspondence with the loss assessor where Ageas indicated its position. If that wasnt 
passed on to C I wouldnt hold Ageas responsible for that. 
While Ageas could have confirmed its decision in writing to C, I dont see that the failure to 
do that has made any difference to Cs position. C was able to raise a complaint and to put 
forward any information it wished in support of this. Ultimately its for C to prove its claim and 
the crux of the matter here is that it hasnt done so.
Cs representative has referred to the frustration caused by the way the claim was handled. 
Even if I found there was some distress caused by Ageas actions, C is the complainant and 
as a limited company, its not an individual who might suffer distress. So I couldnt award any 
compensation for distress even if satisfied there was some fault in the way Ageas dealt with 
things.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman