DRN-1628245
 
The complaint 
Mrs A complains about the service Nationwide Building Society provided to her on two 
separate occasions. 
Background
The first part of Mrs As complaint is that she was not put directly through to the credit card 
department when she inadvertently called the current account department. Specifically, she 
says she was questioned further when she had already asked to be passed through.
The second part is about the treatment she received by a member of staff when she visited a 
branch to do an international transfer. Mrs A said she was shouted at when she asked to 
change her chair which was soiled. 
Nationwide reviewed Mrs As complaint. It didnt agree the advisor from the current account 
department did anything wrong. It said that its member of staff followed its process of what to 
do if a customer comes through to the wrong department. 
In response to Mrs As complaint about the treatment she received in the branch, Nationwide 
thanked her for her feedback but didnt agree that the branch staff had done anything 
wrong.  
Mrs A was unhappy with the response she received from Nationwide, so brought the 
complaint to us. Our investigator reviewed Mrs As complaint and didnt recommend it be 
upheld. She didnt agree that the service Mrs A had received had been poor on either 
occasion. Mrs A disagreed and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
So, the complaint has come to me for review. 
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done this, I dont uphold Mrs As 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Service received during the telephone call
Ive listened to the call Mrs A had with the Nationwide adviser. 
Having done so, I feel the adviser was trying to be helpful and following Nationwides 
process in how to handle a situation where a consumer has come through to the wrong 
department. 
I appreciate that it must have been frustrating for Mrs A to be put on hold and not go directly 
through to the correct department as she had asked. But while it may have been possible for 
the advisor to do something different (such as put Mrs A straight through), I dont think the advisor was wrong to do as she did here. In turn, I dont think Nationwide did anything wrong 
with how it handled Mrs As call. 
Treatment in branch
Its always difficult when there are two differing accounts of what happened, and neither is 
supported by any further evidence. In order to uphold Mrs As complaint, Id need to be 
convinced that what shes told us was more likely than what Nationwide has said occurred. 
Regarding how Mrs A was treated in branch, Ive not seen enough evidence to fairly say 
Nationwide did anything wrong. From the limited information I do have, I can see it has taken 
Mrs As complaint about what happened in branch seriously and has investigated it as I 
would expect it to do. So, I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
I realise my decision is likely to be disappointing to Mrs A. I know shes put time and effort 
into her complaint and feels strongly about what happened. Ive thought carefully about 
everything Mrs A has said. But I dont think  on balance  I can fairly and reasonably uphold 
her complaint. 
Final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman