DRN-2177948
The complaint
Miss G complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) should have advised her differently when 
accepting a payment plan from a debt charity when defaulting on her credit card account 
would have been a better option for her.   
What happened
Miss G has a credit card account with TSB and found herself in financial difficulties. She 
approached a debt charity and they agreed with TSB to accept reduced monthly payments 
over a period of six months. Miss G says that she didnt realise that she would continue to be 
charged interest and charges which meant that her debt with TSB wouldnt reduce. Miss G 
also says that TSB never suggested  she  would be better off financially if she defaulted on 
the account. It was only when Miss G said she wouldnt make the monthly payments to her 
credit card account that TSB agreed to freeze interest and charges and place the account 
with their recoveries team. 
TSB says that they acted on the instructions of the debt charity employed by Miss G and had 
done nothing wrong in applying the interest and charges under this temporary payment plan. 
TSB says they refunded some of the late payment and over limit charges although they had 
no obligation to do so. 
Miss G was unhappy with the response from TSB and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold the complaint and felt 
that TSB had acted fairly when accepting the payment plan from the debt charity. The 
investigator says the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) state that banks should only 
consider defaulting as a last resort and should try to work with customers to prevent this 
happening.
Miss G was unhappy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and for much the 
same reasons. 
When looking at this complaint I have considered whether TSB should have suggested Miss 
Gs credit card account should go into default as Miss G suggests, and if they acted fairly 
when applying interest and charges when agreeing the payment plan from the debt charity 
employed by Miss G. 
I can understand that it would have been worrying for Miss G to see her credit card account 
debt wasnt reducing despite making the agreed payments under the payment plan agreed 
with TSB by  the debt charity.
What happened here is that Miss G used the services of a debt charity to help negotiate a 
payment plan with TSB. I can see that a plan was approved by TSB and this was explained 
to Miss G in a letter in May 2019.  I have looked at whether TSB agreeing an interest-
bearing plan was the right decision here, but like the investigator I am satisfied that TSB 
have acted upon the request of the debt charity to simply accept reduced monthly payments, 
given her known income and expenditure provided by the debt charity.
It is worth noting the letter in May 2019 states that the plan is a temporary arrangement and 
will avoid any further recovery action. The letter also states that the account would remain in 
arrears. I cant see that TSB in that letter have agreed to freeze interest and charges at this 
point , given this was a temporary arrangement in attempt to get Miss G back on track.  
What is important here is that TSB, by agreeing to this plan on an interest-bearing basis, 
have tried to prevent any further recovery action taking place or putting Miss Gs credit card 
account into default, this is what I would expect to see and in line with guidance set out by 
the FCA to try and work with customers when facing financial difficulties. I cant see that 
TSB, like any bank,  should be expected to advise its customers to default as this may have 
other consequences and they have no responsibility to do so. 
TSB have, without obligation, refunded 3 months late payment and over limit charges and I 
am satisfied this was fair and reasonable.  I also understand that Miss Gs credit card 
account is now with a debt collection agency and an agreed debt repayment plan has been 
agreed with interest and charges frozen  while I understand this is what Miss G felt should 
have happened at the outset, as Ive explained before, I am satisfied that TSB had no 
obligation to suggest this to her at the time the original plan was put in place. 
While Miss G will be disappointed with my decision, I will not be asking anymore of TSB 
here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman