DRN-3452767
The complaint
Mr C complains about the advice given by TenetConnect Limited (Tenet) to transfer the 
benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP). He thinks the advice may have been unsuitable for him and has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Cs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure
its business, including decoupling the employers DB scheme (the BSPS) from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
preserved benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund 
(PPF), or a new defined benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed 
they could transfer their benefits to a personal pension arrangement.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which gave 
them three options; to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to the BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr C chose to join the BSPS2 so that he didnt lose this opportunity. However, he wanted to 
know what the best course of action for him was so he got in touch with Tenet. Mr C met 
with Tenet in December 2017 and it gathered information about his circumstances and 
objectives. It noted Mr C was soon to be aged 50 and was married with non-dependent 
children. That Mr C and his wife owned their home and two rental properties, one of which 
had a small mortgage due to be repaid in around five years. It was recorded that Mr and 
Mrs C had savings of £100,000 and significant disposable income. That Mrs C was already 
retired and in receipt of an annual pension of around £12,000 per year and received benefits 
amounting to £4,000 per year.
Tenet noted Mr C had a balanced attitude to risk; that he wanted to retire early between 
ages 55 and 58 and have a net household income of between £34,000 and £44,000 per 
year. It was further noted Mr C and his employer were contributing 16% of his salary per 
month to his employers new defined-contribution (DC) pension scheme, equivalent to 
around £6,000 per year, which was worth around £32,000 at the time of the advice. 
However, Tenet noted that Mr C hoped to make additional contributions that would provide 
him with a fund worth £100,000 by the time he retired.
In February 2018 Tenet advised Mr C to transfer his BSPS benefits to a SIPP. It said this 
would allow Mr C to achieve his objectives of control and flexibility of income, give him the 
option to semi-retire and drawdown a higher income at first before reducing this when he 
and Mrs Cs state pensions became payable. It said this strategy would meet his objective of 
providing better death benefits for his wife, children and grandchildren as a sizable fund 
would likely be left on his death. Mr C accepted this advice and £551,406 was transferred 
from the BSPS to his new SIPP.
In 2021 Mr C complained to our Service about the advice following correspondence from the 
regulator suggesting that the advice he received may have been unsuitable and caused him 
a loss. The complaint was passed to Tenet but it didnt uphold it. Tenet said the advice was 
suitable as it allowed Mr C to meet his objectives, such as accessing the pension flexibly 
from age 55 and being able to pass on the full pension to his wife and children in the event 
of his death. It said Mr C couldnt meet his objectives by joining the BSPS2 or moving to the 
PPF.
Unhappy with Tenets response, Mr C asked our Service to investigate. One of our 
Investigators looked into the complaint and said it should be upheld. He thought the advice 
was unsuitable as Mr C wasnt likely to be able to match or exceed the benefits available to 
him under either the BSPS2 or the PPF. He recommended Mr C should be compensated 
based on him having opted to move with the scheme to the PPF because Mr C wanted to 
retire early and the PPF was more favourable in these circumstances.
Tenet didnt agree  it maintained the advice was suitable as the transfer met all of Mr Cs 
objectives. It said the suitability of the advice shouldnt be assessed purely based on 
whether Mr C could get a higher pension by transferring. And in any event, it said Mr C 
wanted to take a higher income until his state pension became payable so he could enjoy 
the early years of his retirement with his wife, who was almost ten years older than him and 
wasnt in good health. It said this strategy allowed Mr C to vary his income and that this 
would also allow him to pass on a significant sum on his death.
Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators proposed redress  he said retiring early was 
something he wanted to consider but it wasnt a concrete plan. He said the adviser had been 
the one to suggest this and convinced him hed never run out of money. Mr C said even if he 
did end up retiring early, he couldve used his savings or DC pension to provide some 
income. This would allow him to avoid taking his full DB pension until age 65. Mr C added 
that he had already opted to join the BSPS2 and says he shouldve been advised to stick 
with his choice. So, he thought compensation should be based on him having joined the 
BSPS2 instead.
The Investigator accepted this and subsequently directed Tenet to provide compensation 
based on Mr C joining the BSPS2 and retiring at age 65 instead.
Tenet still didnt agree. It maintained that Mr C had several clear objectives that couldve 
only been met by transferring out of the BSPS. It said it was entitled to provide advice based 
on those objectives, which were recorded at the time. Tenet added that it had provided lots 
of balanced details about the BSPS2 and the PPF and Mr C was fully aware of what hed be 
giving up. It also said that its cash flow modelling demonstrated Mr Cs funds would last him 
until age 99 without him having to reduce the level of income he took. Overall, Tenet thought 
it was clear the transfer was in Mr Cs best interest. 
The complaint was subsequently referred for a final decision.
In August 2022 the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), launched a 
consultation on changes to its DB transfer redress guidance. So, the Investigator wrote to 
Mr C to advise him of the FCAs proposed changes which were due to come into effect in 
April 2023 and to give him the option to have any redress due to him calculated under the 
then current guidance or to wait for the new rules to come into effect. Mr C chose to have his 
compensation calculated under the new rules and guidance.
The Investigator subsequently informed both Mr C and Tenet that if the Ombudsman 
considering the case decided to uphold it, they may require Tenet to calculate any redress 
owed to Mr C using the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator. Although the calculator has been developed specifically for the BSPS consumer redress scheme, the Investigator 
explained that the FCA encouraged firms to use the calculator for non-scheme cases, such 
as Mr Cs complaint with our Service. The Investigator invited both parties to comment if they 
had any concerns. 
Tenet responded saying that it didnt think it was reasonable for an Ombudsman to mandate 
use of the FCAs calculator in non-scheme cases, as alternative calculators should arrive at 
the same numbers using the same guidance. Tenet said it intended to continue its usual 
process of requesting a loss calculation from an independent actuary. The Investigator 
acknowledged this, but said it was ultimately for the Ombudsman to decide and direct the 
appropriate redress and this could include directing Tenet to use the FCAs BSPS calculator.
The case has now been passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Tenets actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint.
The FCA states in COBS 19.1.6G that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB 
scheme is that it is unsuitable and that a transfer should only consider the transfer to be 
suitable if it can clearly demonstrate it is in the consumers best interests. Im also mindful 
that under COBS 9.2.1R Tenet needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that its 
recommendation to Mr C was suitable for him. And having looked at all the evidence 
available, Im not satisfied Tenet took reasonable steps to ensure the advice to transfer was 
suitable for Mr C or that it was in his best interests.Financial viability
Tenet carried out a transfer value analysis report (TVAS), as required by the regulator, 
showing how much Mr Cs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). Tenet produced two TVAS reports 
using the existing BSPS benefits and the BSPS2 benefits. While providing the figures for the 
BSPS and the BSPS2 is helpful for comparison purposes, given Mr C had already chosen to 
join the BSPS2, Ive focused on the TVAS based on the BSPS2 benefits here.
According to the information gathered by Tenet, Mr C said he wanted to retire early. He 
thought he was unlikely to be able to continue working full-time in the steel industry beyond 
age 55, so he thought he might reduce his hours at that age before possibly retiring fully at 
age 58. So, the TVAS dated 26 January 2018 set out the relevant critical yields; at age 65 it 
was 5.03% if Mr C took a full pension and 3.90% if he took a reduced pension and tax-free 
cash (TFC). At age 55 it was 7.80% if he took a full pension and 4.68% if he took a reduced 
pension and TFC. The critical yield required to match the benefits provided through the PPF 
at age 65 was 4.02% if Mr C took a full pension and 3.78% if he took TFC and a reduced 
pension. At age 55, it was 6.08% if he took a full pension and 5.57% if he took a reduced 
pension and TFC.
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable when the advice was given.
The relevant discount rate at the time the advice was given was 4.3% a year for 15 years to 
retirement and 3.1% a year for 5 years to retirement. For further comparison, the regulator's 
upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% a year.
I've taken this into account, along with Mr Cs balanced attitude to risk and also
the term to retirement. Given the discount rate and the middle projection rate, if Mr C 
transferred out of the scheme theres a reasonable chance he couldve matched the benefits 
available to him under the BSPS2 and the PPF if he retired at age 65. However, in Tenets 
suitability report, it recognised that there was still a reasonable chance it would not be 
achieved. And I think there would be little point in Mr C giving up the guarantees available to 
him through his DB scheme only to achieve the same level of benefits outside the scheme. 
Mr C was clear that he thought he would probably retire early. So, I think the critical yield 
figures for retiring at age 55 are more relevant. And at age 55, the critical yields were higher 
 Tenet conceded in the suitability report that these critical yields were less achievable. It 
further added that if Mr C transferred out of the scheme he would probably not be able to 
purchase a guaranteed income at the same level as the BSPS2 or PPF pensions. So, 
overall, I think Mr C was likely to receive benefits of a lower overall value than the DB 
scheme at retirement, as a result of investing in line with that attitude to risk, particularly if he 
retired earlier than age 65. And I think Tenet also recognised this.
However, Tenet produced various cash flow analysis reports, which it says showed that 
Mr C could meet his income needs throughout his retirement and on his death, he would 
have a large estate to pass on to his family. Nevertheless, it explained in the suitability report 
that this analysis wasnt guaranteed and was dependent on investment returns, which could 
perform more poorly than anticipated.Ive considered the relevant cash flow analysis reports. I appreciate this demonstrated 
Mr Cs fund would last beyond his life expectancy, leaving a large sum behind for his estate, 
even when allowing for a 30% drop in the transfer value at the outset. But according to the 
cash flow details, both scenarios involve Mr C drawing down negligible sums from the 
transferred pension throughout Mr Cs lifetime. Thats because Mr and Mrs Cs core 
expenses would largely be met by Mrs Cs existing DB pension, benefits and her state 
pension. So, it is no surprise that the cash flow analysis demonstrates a large sum for Mr C 
to pass on to his estate on his death in these circumstances. However, given that Tenets 
advice was partly based on Mr C being able to withdraw larger sums from his pension in the 
early years of his retirement until his state pension became payable, I dont think the cash 
flow models are an actual reflection of the circumstances the advice was based on.
Furthermore, according to the default assumptions page this was still based on assumed 
growth rates of between 3% for cash, up to 8.25% for equities  with the modelling being 
based on a default asset allocation of over 50% in favour of equities for Mr C. In comparison, 
the TVAS shows that if Mr Cs funds grew in line with the regulators middle projection rate, 
and he withdrew the same income he was entitled to through the DB scheme from age 55, 
his fund would be depleted at age 92 if he took a full pension and age 99 if he took a 
reduced pension and TFC. So, the size of the fund Mr C was able to pass on in the event of 
his death might not be as generous as he expected. And if Mr Cs funds performed below 
the middle growth rate, particularly over a long period of time, I think there was a risk of 
depleting his pension before he died.
In summary, if Mr C transferred his BSPS benefits to a SIPP he probably could have 
matched the benefits provided by the BSPS2 and potentially exceeded them, if he retired at 
age 65. But given Mr C told Tenet he wished to retire early, from around age 55, then I think 
he was likely to be worse off by transferring to a SIPP, given the overall value of the benefits 
hed be giving up. So based on the above alone, I dont think the transfer was in Mr Cs best 
interests.
However, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. Other 
objectives might mean a transfer is suitable despite providing overall lower benefits, and 
Tenet has argued that Mr C had several objectives that could only have been met by 
transferring his pension. So, Ive thought about whether Mr Cs other objectives meant a 
transfer was still suitable for him overall.
Flexibility and income needs
In the suitability report, Tenet said that Mr C didnt think hed be able to work full-time in the 
steel industry, so thought he might reduce his hours at age 55 before retiring fully at age 58. 
It said Mr C was likely to retire early particularly given his wife was older than him and was 
already retired. Tenet said Mr C wanted to be able to access his pension flexibly and control 
how much income he took, noting that he wasnt going to be reliant on his pension income 
once his state pension became payable. Tenet maintains that Mr C therefore had a need for 
flexibility and had specific objectives that could not have been met by joining the BSPS2.
Mr Cs apparent desire to retire early is a source of contention. Mr C says that retiring at 55 
was suggested by the adviser on the basis that he would never run out of money. But he 
said that he still didnt intend to access his pension until much later because of the existing 
income streams and savings he had. Tenet, however, says that it was entitled to rely on 
Mr Cs objective of wanting to retire between the ages of 55 and 58. It says he had the 
opportunity to correct this if there was any misunderstanding.Ive taken account of what both sides have said on this point  but I think its more likely than 
not that Mr C expressed a desire to retire early at the time of the advice, particularly given 
his wife had already retired and was older than him. But retiring from work and accessing a 
pension are not one and the same. And I also think Tenet needed to bear in mind that Mr C 
was still between five and eight years away from when he thought he may retire  and so his 
plans couldve changed in the intervening years. So, while it was entitled to consider what 
Mr C would need from his pensions if he chose to semi-retire at age 55, it also needed to 
think about the potential for a change in those plans and whether Mr C had other sources of 
income he could use to fund the early years of his retirement. Nevertheless, I dont think it 
makes a difference to the outcome overall, because even if I accept Mr C wanted to retire 
fully as early as age 55, I dont think he needed to transfer his benefits to a SIPP to achieve 
this.
According to the suitability report, Mr C expressed a desire to take a lump sum from his 
pension in retirement, though the sum wasnt set in stone. He mentioned hed like to restore 
his classic car, which might cost around £30,000. He also said he might consider purchasing 
a campervan which could cost between £30,000 - £40,000, although he would consider this 
more closely at retirement depending on his finances. Although it isnt clear what sum Mr C 
was seeking, it seems to me he couldve had a need for at least £30,000 at retirement. Mr C 
also explained to the adviser that he was looking for a minimum household income of 
£34,000 (net) up to a maximum of £44,000 (net), which equates to a gross income of around 
£37,000 to £49,000 between Mr and Mrs C. So, Ive considered whether Mr C couldve 
achieved this by remaining in the BSPS2.
At the time of the advice, Tenet noted Mr and Mrs C had savings of £100,000 between them 
and had significant disposable income after expenses, meaning they had capacity to build 
further savings until Mr C retired. Mr C was also contributing 16% of his salary to his DC 
pension, and it was worth £31,500 at the time of the advice. Mr C expressed a desire to 
contribute more to his DC scheme, but even based on the existing level of contributions and 
without allowing for salary increases, the DC scheme could be worth in the region of £61,500 
at age 55. And if I assumed modest net growth of 2% over five years, the funds could be 
worth in the region of £66,000 at age 55. So, it seems to me that Mr C already had sufficient 
savings of his own to meet his desire to fund restoring his classic car. And its likely hed also 
have enough to purchase a campervan if he chose to do so by using his remaining savings 
and accessing the TFC from his DC pension. So, Mr C wouldnt even have needed to use 
the TFC he was entitled to take from the BSPS2 at age 55 to meet his need for a lump sum.
Under the BSPS2 at age 55, Mr C wouldve been entitled to TFC of £85,907 and a reduced 
annual pension of £12,886 (which included a £1,319 bridging pension to age 65). Based on 
the information gathered by Tenet, Mr and Mrs C would have gross income between them 
totalling at least £27,700 per year when Mr C reached age 55. This included Mrs Cs DB 
scheme income, which wouldve been subject to increases in the intervening years, her 
disability benefits and Mr and Mrs Cs rental income. This meant Mr and Mrs C wouldve 
needed at least £10,000 per year to meet their minimum gross income need of £37,000 and 
around £22,000 per year to meet their maximum income need. 
I think more than the minimum level wouldve been comfortably met by Mr Cs BSPS2 
pension, and any extra income required above this amount until Mrs C reached state 
pension age (when Mr C would be aged 56 and six months) couldve been supplemented by 
Mr C withdrawing extra sums from his DC pension. Once Mrs C was in receipt of her state 
pension, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs C would have income of around £49,000 between 
them and Mr C wouldve still likely had some funds remaining in his DC pension. So, overall, 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs C wouldve had enough income from their various retirement 
provisions, benefits and properties to meet their maximum income needs until Mr C was in 
receipt of his state pension. And Mr C would not have needed to use his BSPS2 TFC to supplement his income at all, leaving it available to fund his travelling ambitions, or he 
couldve saved it for the benefit of his children.
So, even in the event of Mr C retiring fully at age 55 and requiring the maximum household 
income, Im satisfied Mr C couldve achieved this by remaining in the BSPS2 and taking his 
TFC and a reduced annual pension. And using his pension in the way Ive described above 
would likely leave funds remaining in Mr Cs DC scheme and also leave his TFC of £85,907 
untouched, which he couldve used in any way he wanted. So, I dont think Mr C needed to 
transfer his pension to meet this objective.
Tenet says Mr C required flexibility, so he could adjust the income he took depending on his 
needs. But it seems to me that Mr C had an ongoing household income need of at least 
£37,000 to £49,00 per year  he didnt anticipate that overall need reducing. Instead it 
appears Mr and Mrs Cs various income streams would exceed their needs once Mr Cs 
state pension became payable, so Tenet may argue that Mr C needed flexibility so that he 
could maintain his income at the required level instead of having excess income.
But joining the BSPS2 wouldve provided Mr and Mrs C with a substantial amount of 
guaranteed income that wouldve helped to meet Mr and Mrs Cs essential and discretionary 
spending. It also wouldve reduced their reliance on rental income in their later years. And 
overall, I think this guaranteed income wouldve allowed Mr and Mrs C to enjoy a 
comfortable retirement with a sufficient buffer to meet unforeseen costs if and when they 
arose in the future. And if Mr C felt he had too much income, he couldve saved it or 
reinvested it for the benefit of his children/grandchildren. So, I dont think it was suitable or in 
Mr Cs best interests to advise him to transfer his pension, exposing him to the risks of the 
financial markets, just to have extra flexibility that he didnt really need.
For balance, Ive also taken into account Mr Cs assertion that even if he retired early, from 
age 58, he wouldnt have needed to access his DB scheme benefits because he had other 
income streams. As Ive said above, by the time Mr C reached age 58, Mrs C wouldve been 
in receipt of her state pension. According to Tenets cashflow analysis and the suitability 
report, their combined income sources at that point would include around £16,000 per year 
from Mrs Cs DB scheme, £8,800 from her state pension, £4,000 in disability benefits, and 
rental income of around £11,000. So, their income at that point was already around £40,000. 
I think that Mr C couldve easily topped up this income as and when necessary from his DC 
scheme pot, meaning he couldve left his BSPS2 benefits untouched until age 65 if he didnt 
wish to be subject to the reductions for retiring early.
So, in summary, whenever Mr C chose to retire, I think he couldve met his income needs in 
retirement. And I think he couldve deferred taking his BSPS2 benefits until age 65 if he 
wanted to, even if he retired early.
Death benefits
Tenet recorded that Mr C preferred for his family to benefit from a lump sum death benefit 
which could be passed on to his wife, children or grandchildren and that he didnt want his 
pension to be lost on his death. Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course most 
people would like their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. And Im sure that the 
idea of leaving a large sum to his family in the event of his death sounded attractive to Mr C, 
as it would to most people. But whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to 
consumers, and Mr C might have thought it was a good idea to transfer his BSPS benefits 
because of this, the priority here was to advise Mr C about what was best for his retirement 
provisions. And a pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement rather than 
as a means of providing a legacy.I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mr C 
was married and so the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 wouldve been useful to 
his spouse if Mr C predeceased her, even if Mr C considered that unlikely given their age 
difference. This pension, when added to Mrs Cs own pension entitlements and other 
income, wouldve been sufficient to meet her individual needs. The spouses pension was 
guaranteed and it escalated  and under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would be 
calculated as if no TFC had been taken. Furthermore, this benefit was not dependent on 
investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was. 
And if investment returns were poor, there may not have been a large sum to pass on in any 
event, particularly if Mr C took more out of the fund than he anticipated in the early years of 
his retirement. 
I accept that on Mr and Mrs Cs deaths the DB pension would not pay out any further benefit. 
But Mr C couldve nominated any beneficiaries of his choosing for any remaining funds in his 
DC pension. And as Ive said above, Mr C couldve saved the remaining TFC from the 
BSPS2 and any extra income above his needs for the benefit of his children or grandchildren 
in a tax-efficient way, for example, through a trust. Mr and Mrs C also had three properties 
that wouldve formed part of their estate and provided a sizeable legacy. So, I think its clear 
Mr C already had valuable death benefits through the DB scheme and he couldve made 
other arrangements (in the ways Ive set out above) to ensure that a significant part of his 
pension didnt die with him. And had Tenet explained to Mr C that he could meet his 
objective of providing extra death benefits for his family, without giving up his own 
guaranteed pension, I think he likely wouldve been satisfied with this.
If Mr C had genuinely wanted to leave further funds for his children/grandchildren, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, 
then I think Tenet should have instead explored life insurance more fully. It appears that 
Tenet did look at whole of life assurance; the suitability report mentions that a policy 
providing £551,406 would cost approximately £557.78 per month (before underwriting). And 
I have seen reference to Mr C feeling the rates would be prohibitive for him given his job. So, 
it appears this was discounted based on the cost and that taking out insurance wouldnt 
provide him with the pension flexibility he required.
Notwithstanding what Ive already said about Mr C not having a genuine need for flexibility, 
I dont think the quotes generated presented the option of taking life assurance in a balanced 
way. Tenet based the quote on the transfer value of Mr Cs pension benefits, so it essentially 
assumed that he would pass away on day one following the transfer and that isnt realistic. 
Ultimately, Mr C wanted to leave whatever remained of his pension to his spouse or children, 
which would be a lot less than this if he lived a long life. So, Tenet should have asked Mr C 
how much he would ideally like to leave as a legacy, and how much he could afford to 
contribute. Insurance on this basis was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide and would have 
enabled him to leave a legacy without risking his retirement income.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP justified 
the risk attached with Mr C transferring his pension. And I dont think Tenet did enough to 
highlight the value of Mr Cs existing death benefits or to explore the alternatives available to 
him to meet this objective.
Control and concerns over the financial stability of the DB scheme
Its clear that Mr C, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his pension. 
Hed seen the reduction in benefits over time and was concerned this would continue  
Tenet said Mr C wanted to know the pension was under his control. So its quite possible 
that Mr C was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the concerns he had about his employer and his negative perception of the changes made to the DB scheme over 
time.
Its well documented that this was a period of uncertainty for people like Mr C. But this only 
serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the need for suitable advice. So it was Tenets obligation to give 
Mr C an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
Mr C had already chosen to join the BSPS2 and at the time the advice was given, all signs 
pointed to the scheme going ahead. And if Mr Cs concerns about his employers influence 
on his pension remained, I think it shouldve been explained that his employer and the 
pension scheme trustees were not entirely one and the same. So Mr Cs employer didnt 
have the control over the pension Mr C thought it did. And in any event, Mr C hadnt 
expressed a desire to move his DC pension away from his employer  so transferring his DB 
scheme benefits wouldnt necessarily provide him the separation he appeared to want.
Even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think that Tenet shouldve 
reassured Mr C that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought. The 
income available to Mr C through the PPF was actually likely to be higher than the benefits 
he could obtain from the BSPS2 if he retired at age 55, and he was unlikely to be able to 
significantly improve on this by transferring out. Although the increases in payment in the 
PPF were lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. 
So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to Tenet recommending Mr C transfer out 
of the DB scheme altogether.
I also think Mr Cs desire for control over his pension benefits was overstated. Mr C was not 
an experienced investor and I cannot see that he had an interest in or the knowledge to be 
able to manage his pension funds on their own. Indeed, the recommendation letter 
suggested he would remain reliant on professional advisers. So, I dont think that having 
control was a genuine objective for Mr C  it was simply a consequence of transferring away 
from his DB scheme.
Summary
I accept that Mr C may have been motivated to transfer out of the BSPS when he met with 
Tenet. And I appreciate that having control and flexibility of income, the option to retire and 
drawdown income at age 55, and the potential for higher death benefits on offer through a 
SIPP would have sounded attractive to Mr C. But Tenet wasnt there simply to just arrange 
what Mr C might have thought he wanted. It was obliged to really understand what Mr C 
needed, to give him an objective picture and to recommend what was in his best interests.
And ultimately, I dont think the advice Tenet gave to Mr C was suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income under the BSPS2. By transferring, he was likely 
to obtain lower retirement benefits overall and in my view, there were no compelling reasons 
which would justify a transfer and outweigh this. Mr C shouldnt have been advised to 
transfer out of the scheme in order to retire at 55 when he couldve achieved this by 
remaining in the scheme. And I dont think the possibility of having too much income in the 
future meant he had a genuine need for flexibility, such that he should place all of his 
retirement funds at risk. And in my view, the potential for death benefits that could be passed 
on to family other than his spouse wasnt worth giving up the guarantees associated with 
Mr Cs DB scheme. So, I think Tenet shouldve advised Mr C not to transfer to a personal 
pension.
Tenet says that around 40% of Mr Cs pension under the BSPS2 wasnt subject to escalation 
in payment so his pension wasnt fully protected against inflation. But joining the BSPS2 wouldve still offered him a degree of protection against the impact of inflation without him 
having to take any risk with his pension funds. Whereas by transferring, he was subject to 
the impact of inflation on his funds and market risk. So, I dont think that shouldve been a 
significant consideration when making the recommendation.
I appreciate at the time of the advice that Mr C thought he would likely retire fully by age 58, 
but that was still around eight years away and I think there was always the chance that could 
change. For most people, early retirement means a significant drop in income. And that 
would dramatically reduce most individuals spending power and lifestyle choices. So, when 
faced with that prospect at an early retirement age, many people choose not to retire. 
Instead they opt to continue working to support their current and future lifestyle options.
Im also mindful that Mr C had already opted to join the BSPS2. I accept it could have been 
to Mr Cs benefit to instead move to the PPF if he was certain to retire early around age 55. 
But given I dont think that was a certainty, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by 
maintaining his choice to join the BSPS2, Mr C wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of 
the scheme nearer to his retirement age if he needed to. Also, Mr C was married, and his 
wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement (if Mr C chose to do so). The annual 
indexation of his pension when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2 
compared with the PPF. So, I think Tenet shouldve advised Mr C to maintain his choice to 
join the BSPS2.
Tenet may argue Mr C would have transferred even if Tenet advised against it, either by 
insisting with Tenet or by using another independent financial adviser. It says that it provided 
Mr C with extensive information about the risks of transferring and what hed be giving up if 
he proceeded with the transfer. So, ultimately it believes Mr C made an informed choice to 
proceed with the transfer and he wouldve transferred in any event.
I accept that Tenet disclosed the risks of transferring to Mr C, and provided him with a 
significant amount of information in the suitability report. But ultimately it advised Mr C to 
transfer out, and I think Mr C relied on that advice.
Ive seen nothing to make me think Mr C wouldve insisted on the transfer going ahead if 
Tenet had advised him against it or that he would have approached another independent 
financial adviser. Mr C had already chosen to join the BSPS2, so had already shown a 
willingness to stay in the DB scheme. Im also mindful he was an inexperienced investor, 
with a balanced attitude to risk. And his BSPS pension accounted for the majority of his 
retirement provisions. So if Tenet had provided Mr C with clear advice against transferring 
out of the BSPS that explained why it wasnt in his best interests, and how he could meet his 
objectives by remaining in the scheme, I think Mr C would have accepted that advice.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Cs preference for flexibility and control was so important 
that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose 
expertise he had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his 
best interests. And if Tenet had explained Mr C was unlikely to exceed the benefits available 
to him through the BSPS2 if he transferred out, and that he could meet his income needs in 
retirement whenever he decided to retire, without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that 
wouldve carried significant weight.
So, overall, I think Mr C wouldve maintained his decision to join the BSPS2 if hed been 
advised to do so. And so Tenet should compensate Mr C for the unsuitable advice, in line 
with the regulators rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice. And it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for 
comparison purposes, as I dont think there is sufficient evidence to persuade me that Mr C 
wouldve taken his DB scheme benefits any earlier than age 65 had he been advised to stay 
in the BSPS2. Thats because, as Ive demonstrated above, I think Mr C had sufficient other 
means available to him to retire early, so I dont think he wouldve needed to access his 
BSPS2 benefits to achieve this.
In order to calculate the redress, Im directing Tenet to use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress 
calculator. I know that Tenet does not feel that it is within my remit to make such a direction, 
and says it intends to continue using an independent actuary. But it is for me to determine 
what redress would be appropriate here and that can include a direction to use the FCAs 
calculator.
The FCA developed the calculator as part of the BSPS consumer redress scheme, to ensure 
consistency in the calculations and to ensure consumers receive fair and quicker redress. It 
also reduces the burden on firms by removing the need for actuarial support in most 
calculations. While the calculator was developed as part of the BSPS consumer redress 
scheme, the FCA is also encouraging businesses to use the calculator for non-scheme 
cases, such as Mr Cs complaint with our Service. And overall, I think it would be reasonable 
for Tenet to use the FCAs calculator here as the calculator output is easily understood and 
I think it will provide Mr C with reassurance that any redress owed to him has been 
calculated fairly.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr C would most 
likely have joined the BSPS2 if suitable advice had been given. 
Tenet must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Tenet should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. A 
copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr C and our Service upon completion 
of the calculation.
For clarity, Mr C has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on the schemes normal retirement age of 65, as per the 
usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Cs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, CST should:
calculate and offer Mr C redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr C before starting the redress calculation that:their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr C receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr C accepts Tenets offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr C for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Cs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr C as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, Tenet may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that Mr C 
would otherwise pay on income from his pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require TenetConnect Limited 
to pay Mr C the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I have also 
recommended that TenetConnect Limited pays Mr C the balance. 
If Mr C accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on TenetConnect 
Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr C can accept my
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
TenetConnect Limited should provide details of its calculations to Mr C in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman