DRN-1943797
Complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs F says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy of Mrs Fs postal application form for her credit card. This had a section to 
also add PPI. The box to add PPI has been ticked and the form has been signed. There was 
another product that was available on the application form, but this was not selected. So 
overall, I think RBS made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although given how long ago this policy was sold, I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs F got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. 
I understand Mrs F says she was employed and had good sick pay provided by her 
employer which she couldve used to help her meet her repayments if she found herself 
unexpectedly out of work because of illness or injury. But this policy wouldve paid out on top 
of her sick pay and for longer than her full sick pay wouldve lasted. It also couldve paid out 
for up to 12 months if she lost her job. So, I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs F about that. Because RBS didnt tell Mrs F, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs F.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs F any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman