DRN-2962203
The complaint
Ms S complains that Hastings Insurance Services Limited unfairly increased the premium on 
her motor insurance policy, and charged her a cancellation fee when she cancelled it as a 
result.
What happened
Ms S took out a motor insurance policy through Hastings. She applied for the policy on a 
price comparison website. The policy started around three weeks after Ms Ss application 
was accepted. The premium for the policy was payable by 12 monthly instalments, and 
came to £202.67, including interest on the instalments.
Two weeks after the insurance started, Hastings wrote to Ms S, asking her to confirm her 
occupation. She told it she wasnt employed, due to a disability. Hastings told her shed 
previously specified her occupation as a housewife. And as a result of what it described as 
differences in the information you gave us, the cost of the policy would increase by 
£112.18. This included a change administration fee of £30.
Ms S wasnt happy with the increased cost of the insurance, and she cancelled it. Hastings 
told Ms S that the amount due for the time the policy had been live was £83.70. This 
included its policy arrangement fee of £20 and cancellation fee of £45. Ms S had paid a total 
of £33.77, so it said a balance of £49.93 was due. Ms S didnt pay that amount, and 
Hastings instructed a debt collection agency to recover it from her.
Ms S believes shes paid for longer than the policy was live for, and has been charged for a 
mistake that wasnt hers. She says shes had to spend a lot of time speaking to Hastings 
staff on the phone, and they havent called her back. And shes been contacted by debt 
collectors.
One of our investigators considered Ms Ss complaint and thought it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said he thought it was reasonable that someone might consider themselves a 
housewife as well as not working because of a disability. Hastings hadnt responded to his 
requests for information about exactly what Ms S had been asked when she applied for the 
policy. So based on what hed seen, he didnt think Ms S had misrepresented her 
occupation. And he said Hastings should remove the cancellation fee and any negative 
markers it may have reported on Ms Ss credit file. And he said it should pay her £100 
compensation.
Ms S was happy with the investigators view. Hastings hasnt made any further comments 
and the time for doing so has expired. So the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint. Ill explain why. 
Although weve asked Hastings several times to provide evidence of the precise questions 
Ms S was asked when she applied for the policy, it hasnt done so. Hastings has told us that 
when Ms S applied for the policy she indicated that her occupation was a housewife. 
I dont know whether Ms S simply wrote her answer in a blank space on the application, or 
selected from a drop-down list. And if there were options to choose from, I dont know what 
they were. But I dont consider that being a housewife and not being employed due to 
disability are mutually exclusive. So in the absence of any evidence about the questions that 
Ms S was asked when she applied for the insurance, Ive seen nothing to make me think that 
she misrepresented her position, or that she should have specified at the outset that she 
wasnt employed due to disability.
I acknowledge that given that Ms S applied for the insurance on a price comparison website, 
its unlikely that Hastings wrote the questions itself. But it had a responsibility to obtain the 
information from Ms S that the underwriter needed in order to decide whether it was willing 
to offer Ms S insurance, and if so, on what terms. And this information should have been 
gathered by asking Ms S clear and specific questions. 
As it turned out, the insurer would only have been willing to offer cover for a higher premium 
if it had known that Ms S wasnt employed due to disability. But Ive seen nothing to suggest 
that she concealed this or misrepresented her position during the application process. And 
based on the limited evidence provided, I consider that the responsibility for the unexpected 
increase in premium lies with Hastings, not with Ms S.
Im satisfied that Hastings has correctly calculated the premium chargeable to Ms S for the 
time the policy was live, including interest on the direct debit. But taking everything into 
account, Iike the investigator, I dont consider it fair of Hastings to charge Ms S a 
cancellation fee for the policy. And I can see that repeated phone calls to Hastings and, 
subsequently, contact from debt collectors would have been unpleasant and stressful for 
Ms S. So I consider the £100 recommended by the investigator to be reasonable to reflect 
the trouble and upset Ms S has experienced.
Putting things right
To put things right, Hastings Insurance Services Limited should:
Remove the £45 cancellation charge;
Pay Ms S £100 to reflect the trouble and upset this matter has caused her;
Remove any negative information its recorded on Ms Ss credit file.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Hastings Insurance Services Limited to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman