DRN-3100609
The complaint
Mr S complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card 
(HRG) mishandled his account and unfairly sold it on to a third-party company.
What happened
In August 2016 Mr S opened an account with HRG which he was able to use to purchase 
various items and spread the cost of payment over an agreed period.
In July 2020 Mr S explained to HRG that he was experiencing some health and financial 
difficulties. HRG agreed an arrangement for Mr S to make payments off his outstanding 
balance at the rate of £20pm for six months. 
During 2020 Mr S also raised a complaint with this service about the quality of a TV, dining 
suite and dishwasher which hed acquired via his account with HRG. The result of this 
complaint was that it was recommended that HRG would refund Mr S for the dining suite and 
the dishwasher. Mr S agreed with the view and his complaint was closed in May 2021.
In January 2021 HRG sold Mr Ss account to a third-party company for them to manage. The 
third-party contacted Mr S to explain that they would now be responsible for managing this 
account. Mr S was very unhappy at receiving this notification and complained that HRG had 
unfairly sold his account on without informing him. He also questioned whether the balance 
on the account was correct in light of his earlier complaint and the refunds that were due.
HRG decided to buy Mr Ss account back in March 2021 and it has continued to manage it 
up to the current time. HRG didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. It said the selling on of Mr Ss 
account was in line with the accounts terms and conditions and that it wasnt obliged to 
inform him of this action. HSG said that the passing on of the account had been considered 
to be in Mr Ss best interests as the third-party company specialised in dealing with 
customers who experience health and financial difficulties. It said the account was now being 
managed by itself.
Mr S was unhappy at HRGs response and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. She said that Mr S hadnt maintained his 
payments as agreed by the arrangement set in July 2020 and so HRG was entitled to pass 
the account on as per the terms and conditions. Our investigator also said that HRG had 
decided to buy the account back and manage it which was Mr Ss preference. 
In regard to the outstanding balance on the account, our investigator said she was satisfied 
this was correct and she could see Mr S had been refunded for the dining suite and the 
dishwasher including any interest if it had been charged.
Mr S disagreed with the view of our investigator as he said he hadnt received refunds for the 
TV or a rug which had been faulty. 
The complaint has been passed to me as the parties have been unable to reach an 
agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaint Im dealing with is in respect of HRG selling Mr Ss account on to a third-party 
company and whether the balance is accurate. I cant look at whether there shouldve been 
a reimbursement for the TV and the rug by HRG. This is because the issue with the TV was 
addressed by this service in Mr Ss earlier complaint and no refund was required to be made 
by HRG. Ive seen that Mr Ss complaint about faulty goods has now been closed and due to 
the length of time thats passed cant now be re-opened. 
In regard to the rug, I cant see that Mr S has raised this with HRG and it should have an 
opportunity of investigating that first. So, I cant look at whether there should have been any 
reimbursement for that item.
Ive seen that Mr S feels strongly that HRG shouldnt have passed his account on when it did 
without his being informed. However, under the accounts terms and conditions if payments 
arent made when due then HRG has the right to instruct a third party to take action on our 
behalf.  And looking at the monthly statements provided by HRG for Mr Ss account, Ive 
seen that Mr S wasnt making the minimum payments that were due each month. This led to 
an arrangement being made for Mr S to pay £20pm from July 2020 for a six- month period. 
And although Mr S made the £20 payments up until October 2020, he didnt make them from 
November 2020 to January 2021.
I think HRG was entitled to take the action that if did when it sold Mr Ss account to a third-
party company. I also dont think it was obliged to inform Mr S that it was taking this action. 
Ive also seen that in March 2021 HRG made the decision to have the account returned to it 
so is now managing Mr Ss account. I dont think HRG acted unfairly in its handling of Mr Ss 
account.
Mr S was due refunds on his account as a result of the agreed settlement on his earlier 
complaint. Ive seen that these refunds were made in May and August 2021 leaving a 
balance of £865.53 to be paid. Although I appreciate the second refund had taken some time 
to be made, I dont think this has resulted in any financial detriment for Mr S as his account 
was properly adjusted when this payment was made. Ive also seen no interest was charged 
on these items.
So, for the reasons given above and although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to 
Mr S Im not upholding his complaint as I dont think HRG has acted unfairly in the way it has 
managed Mr Ss account.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman