DRN-2842855
The complaint
Mr L complains that Metro Bank PLC wont refund payments made from his bank account to 
a broadband and mobile phone network provider. He says he didnt make or authorise these.
What happened
In December 2020 and January 2021 payments were made from Mr Ls bank account with 
Metro, to a broadband and mobile phone network provider (the provider).
Mr L told Metro in early February 2021, that he didnt recognise these payments. Metro 
refunded one of the payments but not the others. They investigated and said Mr L had 
authorised them. They later said they shouldnt have refunded the one they did.
What Metro told us
Metro explained that they didnt accept Mr Ls fraud claim because:
Theyre satisfied Mr L has an account with the provider;
Mr L made payments to this provider in the past which he didnt dispute; and
The transactions he disputes were done from the same IP address as some of his 
genuine spending.
What Mr L told us
Mr L said he doesnt have an account with this provider. He showed us letters hes received 
at his address from the provider. These are addressed to someone with his middle name 
and surname, but not his first name.
Information from the provider
The provider told us that they have two accounts in the name of Mr L. Although the account 
holders have different first names, they have the same email and postal addresses for both 
accounts.
Our investigators view
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. She agreed with Metro that the evidence 
points to Mr L having made these payments himself.
Mr L didnt agree. So, the complaint has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ive listened to a recording of a call Mr L had with Metro in December 2020. In that 
call Mr L confirmed this provider was his network provider.
Ive listened to a recording of a call Mr L had with Metro in February 2021. In that call 
Mr L said he used this provider for his home broadband.
One of the letters Mr L has shown us as evidence that he doesnt have an account 
with this provider is: addressed using Mr Ls middle and surname; was sent to his 
address; and refers to the broadband and landline services for that address.
Its unlikely that a third party would use Mr Ls card to pay for a broadband and 
landline plan at Mr Ls address as theyd be unlikely to benefit from using it.
The email address the provider holds for both accounts in Mr Ls name is an email 
address hes used to communicate with us in the past.
Mr L didnt dispute payments made from his account to this provider in November 
2020 (even though he had an opportunity to do so when he reported some other 
transactions as fraud on 11 December 2020).
The IP address of at least one of the disputed payments matches the IP address of 
spending Mr Ls confirmed as genuine, and the IP address Mr L has used when 
making faster payments from his Metro account.
Ive seen evidence that Mr L uses several different devices to make payments. So, 
the fact that different devices were involved in the disputed payments does not 
persuade me that a third party was involved here.
Overall, I think its more likely than not Mr L authorised the payments to the provider.
So, I think Metro have acted fairly and reasonably by declining his fraud claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman