DRN-3081802
The complaint
Miss O complains that two loans she took out with Everyday Lending Limited (trading as 
Everyday Loans) were unaffordable and should not have been provided.
What happened
Miss O took out a loan (Loan 1) with Everyday Loans in June 2017 for £1,000. The loan was 
for 24 months and the interest rate was 249.5% APR. The repayments were £114.88 per 
month with a total repayment amount of £2757.12.
In February 2018, Miss O consolidated Loan 1 into a second loan (Loan 2). This was for 
£1997.93 with an interest rate of 299.8% APR and was also for 24 months. The monthly 
repayments were £260.90 with a total repayment amount of £6261.60.
Miss O says she hadnt wanted to borrow this much and that the loans were unaffordable for 
her. Everyday Loans said it had undertaken checks to ensure the repayments were 
affordable for Miss O, including reviewing two months of Miss Os bank statements, checking 
her payslip, conducting a credit search, and carrying out a job check. It calculated that 
Miss O had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments.
When Miss O complained to our service the investigator upheld the complaint. They said 
that the information gathered by Everyday Loans at the time of lending showed Miss O was 
having money problems and that it had increased her overall indebtedness. So, they thought 
Everyday Loans hadnt met its obligations to check Miss O could sustainably repay either 
loan.
Everyday Loans accepted the investigators findings in relation to Loan 2 but not Loan 1. It 
said Loan 1 was for the purpose of repaying Miss Os defaulted credit card accounts and 
providing a fresh start given shed only defaulted on these because shed lost her job. It said 
all lending increases indebtedness because interest is included.
Miss O didnt accept Everyday Loans offer to compensate her only in relation to Loan 2 and 
so the complaint has been passed to be to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for similar reasons to the investigator.
The relevant regulations and guidance are included in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Everyday Loans was entering a regulated credit 
agreement and it was required to take reasonable steps to be satisfied Miss O would be able 
to make repayments sustainably without having to resort to further finance.
Checks had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application. In 
general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a number 
of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer.
Here, Everyday Loans did undertake such checks, and these identified that Miss O had a 
default applied for £414 in March 2017  three months prior to Loan 1. And a default on 
another account in December 2015 for £369. Everyday Loans also reviewed Miss Os bank 
statements and identified that Miss O had paid her mother more than the declared amount 
on her income and expenditure  their notes say Miss O clarified she was repaying her 
mother for money borrowed. Miss Os statements also show the account entering her 
overdraft and direct debits being returned. I think this shows Miss O was already having 
money problems.
Everyday Loans has said Miss Os default was caused by her losing her job, but the 
documents Loan 1 was based on say she was employed for over 3 years. I havent seen any 
evidence to support that this was why she had defaulted on either account. Everyday Loans 
says that settling the defaulted debts would have given Miss O a fresh start. While settling 
these accounts would have improved matters, these defaults would still have remained on 
her record for six years. Everyday Loans says it calculated Miss O had a disposable income 
of £161.64 prior to taking out Loan 1. If this was the case, Miss O could have settled her 
defaulted debts in less than 5 months, and arguably would have already been doing so given 
its said this was her intention. 
Everyday Loans was required to consider the sustainability of Miss O repaying the loan  
Loan 1 was for 24 months and had a total repayment of £2757.12. This significantly 
increased her indebtedness from £783 and extended the time it would have taken her to 
repay her debts.
So given Miss Os existing money problems, I dont think the information Everyday Loans 
had at the time of lending showed Miss O could sustainably repay Loan 1 or that it would 
have put her in a better position as it has suggested.
Everyday Loans has agreed that it should not have provided Loan 2 and so I wont go into as 
much detail on this. But I agree it was not provided responsibly. Everyday Loans would have 
seen from Miss Os credit file that she had not used Loan 1 to settle her defaulted accounts. 
This shows that her financial position had not improved.
Loan 2 consolidated Loan 1 but had a higher interest rate, lengthened the time she would be 
repaying for and increased her indebtedness to £6261.60. 
So, I think the information Everyday Loans had at the time of both loans showed Miss O was 
unlikely to be able to sustainably repay them.
Putting things right
When considering how to put matters right, Ive taken into account the fact Miss O has had 
the benefit of the loan funds. It isnt possible to put Miss O back in the position she would be 
in had Everyday Loans not provided the lending, so I think a fair way to put matters right is 
for Everyday Loans to remove any interest or charges applied to the loans and amend 
Miss Os credit file. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) should do 
the following in relation to both loans:
1. Refund all the interest and charges Miss O has paid to date.2. Where the borrowing is still in place, reduce the outstanding capital balance by 
the amount calculated at Step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, there remains an outstanding capital balance, Everyday Lending 
Limited should ensure that it isnt subject to any historic or future interest and/or 
charges. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question should 
be given back to Miss O and 8% simple interest* should be added to the surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss O credit file as a result of the 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require the business to take off tax from this interest. If it 
does, the business must give the Miss O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman