DRN-1584673
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Leeds Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out the PPI policy on a joint basis to protect the repayments on their 
mortgage. At its commencement, the policy cost £19.50 and provided a monthly benefit of 
£300 for up to twelve months. This benefit was split 50:50 between Mr and Mrs H.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with 
the adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case. I know this will be a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs H but, having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
This sale took place a long time ago. So its not that surprising that the documentation likely 
to have been completed at the time isn't still available. Businesses arent required to keep 
these sort of records for such lengthy periods. In these circumstances, I need to decide what 
I think is most likely to have happened, based on the limited information available to me.
The business says the PPI policy was sold to Mr and Mrs H in 1993 and protected a 
mortgage which theyd taken out with it in 1989. Mr and Mrs H dont agree. They are 
adamant that the PPI was sold at the same time as the mortgage in 1989 and that they were 
told they had to have it to get their loan. But Leeds have provided a copy of a letter which 
they sent to Mr and Mrs H in 1996 which quotes the start date of the PPI as being in 
December 1993. And it has also confirmed that the society didnt sell PPI policies on its 
mortgages in 1989. So, having carefully considered all the information available to me, I 
think that its most likely that Mr and Mrs H are mistaken in thinking the PPI was sold at the 
same time as their mortgage. I think the sale date was, as the business has said, in 
December 1993. This means that I dont think Mr and Mrs H memory of being told that they 
had to have the cover to get their mortgage can be correct. 
Although there isnt a copy of Mr and Mrs Hs PPI application form, Im aware that one would 
need to have been completed and sent to the insurer at the time of the sale. And from 
seeing an example of a Leedss application form from around this time, I think it would have 
been clear from this form that the PPI was optional.So, based on all the information Ive seen, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs H actively 
decided to take the PPI knowing they could choose not to. But I can understand why they 
may not be able to recall this now.
This was an advised sale where Leeds recommended the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs H. This 
means that it had to ensure that it was suitable for them.  I cant now know all the steps 
Leeds took to ensure that the policy was suitable. But from what I know of Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say 
this because:
 
Mr and Mrs H appear to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of 
its main exclusions and limitations. 
 
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt need the cover because they were both eligible for 
generous sick pay from their employers and also had savings they could have used 
to pay the mortgage if one of them was unable to work. But the policy would have 
paid out in addition to these other means and Mr and Mrs H chose to take the policy, 
so it seems they valued the sort of protection it gave them. And I can see that, when 
their circumstances changed, they chose to amend the cover provided by the policy 
rather than cancelling it altogether. A mortgage is also a big financial commitment  
one where ones home is potentially at risk  so I still think that Mr and Mrs H would 
have valued the extra security which the policy gave them.
 
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H. And as the 
premiums were paid monthly, it could have been cancelled if it no longer met their 
needs.
 
Leeds also needed to give Mr and Mrs H enough information for them to decide if 
they wanted to take the policy. I think its possible that the information Leeds gave them 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable for them, I dont think that better information would have changed their 
minds about taking it. I still think theyd have thought the policy gave them useful benefits at 
an affordable cost.
So I dont think that Mr and Mrs H have lost out by anything that Leeds may have done 
wrong when it sold them this PPI policy.
I've thought about what Mr and Mrs H have said about why they don't agree with the 
adjudicator's view, but this hasn't changed my mind about not upholding their complaint.
This means Leeds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Leeds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
 
Leeds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Leeds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Leeds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Leeds Building Society doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Leeds Building Society does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman