DRN-3640567
The complaint
Mr E complains that he hasnt received ongoing pension advice from Trevor Downing 
Financial Management (IFA) Limited (trading as Davidson Downing or DD), which he 
thought was being funded by the ongoing service charge on his non-pension investments. 
He didnt get enough support when he wanted to switch into cash and later reinvest into the 
market, because of concerns about Brexit and Covid-19. He thinks DD is responsible for him 
remaining out of the market for longer than he would otherwise have been.
What happened
In 2013, Mr E joined his employers Group Personal Pension (GPP) with Aviva. It appears 
that DD was adviser to that scheme. DD assessed his attitude to risk as 5 (balanced) on a 
scale from 1 to 10). He had a normal retirement age of 60 in 2023 and was going to invest in 
Avivas mixed investment 40-85% shares fund which broadly matched his risk profile.
DD says that it would send a Terms of Business document out when it first meets 
customers, but it doesnt require this to be signed. I cant be sure Mr E has one of these, but 
the copy Ive been given includes the sentence, Any products we have arranged for you will 
not be kept under review, however, we will do so if you specifically request this as part of 
any advisory services provided by us to you.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires firms to produce an important 
information about our services document. DDs sets out that it offers ongoing advice and 
that it is important to keep plans under review, adding:
Subject to the type of services you require from us, we can continue to act on your behalf 
through our ongoing advice service. Alternatively, for those who prefer a more 
transactional or ad-hoc pay as you go service, we are also happy to provide our services 
as and when you need them.
It explained that the specific services discussed and agreed including any on-going 
services, the cost and how it can be paid for will be set out in a client agreement. But it gives 
the example of a typical initial advice charge of 3% and an ongoing review service involving 
an annual meeting and report costing up to 0.75%pa, which is appropriate for clients who 
understand the need for regular monitoring and reviewing of their investments.
There is a client agreement document on DDs file. It reiterates that products will only be 
kept under review as part of an agreed ongoing service for which Mr E agrees to pay  and 
refers to a service proposition attached. The attached client authority form includes space 
for the product to be mentioned  which is blank  and 3% has been handwritten next to the 
initial charge and 0.5% next to the ongoing charge. However, its not signed or dated.
In August 2014 Mr E approached DD looking for a general overview of his other pensions  
asking If this is covered by your remit/offer please let me know. DD obtained this 
information over the course of two months, and met him again in September 2014. It wrote 
to him at that time saying it had been asked to investigate whether his other pensions could 
be consolidated into the Aviva GPP. Having obtained projections of benefits from Aviva, it 
appeared that the charges with Aviva would be higher, resulting in lower benefits - and it 
didnt advise he move the pensions. 
A similar exercise began again in June 2016. In addition to the Aviva GPP, Mr E had these 
pensions:
- About £173,000 invested with Scottish Widows in its pension portfolio (involving 
about a 77% component in UK and overseas shares) with a selected retirement age 
of 65. 
- About £153,000 invested in a Standard Life pension, split roughly half and half 
between the managed and multi asset managed (20-60% shares) funds. This was a 
lifestyled portfolio which would typically move from higher to lower risk investments 
starting at 8 years from the selected retirement age. DD recorded that age 60 was 
selected on this plan, meaning it would have started lifestyling the previous year.
- A defined benefit (DB) pension with a former employer worth about £30,000.
DD carried out a fact find with Mr E. This noted that he earned £83,000 per year and had 
£200,000 in investments  much of which was held in bank and building society bonds or 
cash ISAs. His attitude to risk was noted as low  meaning he wished to take only low or 
clearly specified risks. He was looking to retire at age 55 or 56 (in two years). The fact find 
includes the comments Avoid tying up for long periods and No charge on pension.
DD was now proposing that Mr E did transfer his Scottish Widows and Standard Life 
pensions, and his investments, to a joint Aviva portfolio - to which he would also over time 
make further contributions on the investment side. The Aviva illustrations which were used 
as the basis for how much Mr E would be charged were:
- An ISA receiving a transfer of about £27,700 plus a £15,700 contribution  to be 
invested in the BlackRock Consensus 35 D fund. This was a fund of funds spread 
across bonds, shares, alternative assets and cash. Adviser charges: 3% initial and 
0.4%pa ongoing.
- An investment platform receiving a transfer of about £56,600  to be invested in the 
same fund of funds. Adviser charges: 3% initial and 0.4%pa ongoing.
- A personal pension (separate to the Aviva GPP) receiving a transfer of about £326,200 
to be invested in the Aviva Mixed (0-35% shares) fund. Adviser charges: zero. 
Mr E wrote to DD on 7 February 2017 enclosing the pension transfer forms hed completed. 
He made no reference in his covering letter to an expectation of future service, but had 
signed a form with a grid allowing the initial adviser charge and ongoing adviser charge (this 
is the amount charged each year by your adviser for providing an ongoing service) to be 
delineated by product. Both items were put as 0% for the pension portfolio, but for each of 
the ISA and investment portfolios they were 3% initial and 0.5%pa ongoing. 
Mr E sent a separate covering letter on 15 February enclosing the forms for his investment 
and ISA payments. This time he wrote, As discussed on 13 February 2017, you will 
constantly be review (sic) and be aware of the performance of Black Rock investments, and 
will transfer the funds should a better investment become available of (sic) should Black 
Rock performance not achieve expectations.
DD carried out further work on Mr Es investment portfolio, including contributing £20,000 
from the investment platform into an ISA at the start of the next tax year and looking into 
transferring another ISA from Barclays that summer.
Mr E was due to leave his employment at the end of 2017, meaning the Aviva GPP would 
become paid up. He says he had to chase DD in December 2017 for action on whether it 
could be transferred into the Aviva personal pension as he hadnt had any updates and 
found his nominated adviser at the firm had changed. Hed signed a letter of authority in 
November 2017 to request further information about the GPP. In a letter discussing both the pension and a £40,000 investment top-up in January 2018, he 
wrote to confirm your initial fee for the investment top up as discussed last year will be 
1%, with the 0.4% applicable per year as the current agreement. He also instructed DD to 
transfer the GPP into the personal pension and said, Can you please confirm that you will 
continue to monitor my portfolio in order to guard me against any market changes. 
The adviser responded, the funds you have invested in are constantly reviewed by the fund 
managers and if there are any changes expected that will affect the funds we will inform you 
of any changes that are recommended. The transfer of about £51,000 from the GPP into 
the personal pension completed at the end of February 2018.
Mr E says he didnt find out that his new adviser had also changed again until he made 
contact in September 2018. He asked them for advice on what to do about the situation 
surrounding Brexit, as he believed it had caused his pension pot to fall by £10,000, but was 
concerned when there was no response. At one point hes told us that this led him to decide 
unilaterally to switch all of his funds into cash. At another hes told us that this was the 
advisers advice, and he was then expecting the adviser to update him in three months or so 
but heard nothing. Separately, Mr E has also told us that he made the same fund switch with 
his investment portfolio but that was his own decision. 
It is from around this point forwards that DD doesnt have further notes of discussions or call 
recordings with Mr E, but it believes there would have been a vast number of such 
communications. This seems to coincide with the adviser assigned to Mr E falling ill and 
spending many months in hospital. However the proprietor of the firm recalls conferring with 
the adviser regarding Mr Es request to switch into cash:
it was quite clear that we should meet the clients wishesAgain we would have made 
it clear that these are long-term investments and there will be volatility but clients have 
the final investment and moving into cash was [Mr Es] choice. What we cannot do is to 
advise somebody exactly when to move into managed funds again.
DDs view is that Mr E had taken the initiative himself to time the markets. So, it would have 
been up to him (by accessing the same information he had done previously to establish the 
value of his pension was falling) to decide when to reinvest.
Mr E then says that an adviser at DD suggested he begin drip-feeding 50% of his personal 
pension back into the markets spread over a number of months, due to his attitude to risk. 
This may be connected with an undated risk profiling questionnaire on DDs file which 
arrived at an answer of 3 (balanced) on a scale from 1 to 5  the same as Mr Es original 
attitude to risk for the GPP but higher than hed previously invested in the personal pension.
Mr E says that he did this drip-feeding for several months, but again stopped because he 
had expected to get a further update from DD in view of the changing investment situation 
due to Covid-19.
In July 2020 the adviser who had been ill left DD, and Mr E was assigned a new adviser. At 
around this point he was looking to draw his benefits. DD proposed a discretionary fund 
management approach to facilitate this, but Mr E declined this out of concern at the cost. He 
continued to reinvest into the market by contacting Aviva directly, and had no further contact 
with DD - other than he says the adviser agreeing that he was doing the right thing.
After Mr E complained to DD, it replied that it wasnt responsible for proactively managing his 
portfolio, and that the funds were left in cash at his request. But it acknowledged that it could 
have kept him better informed when his adviser changed. It offered him £300 to cover what 
looks to me to be some of the impact of the personal pension charges exceeding the growth in the cash fund whilst he remained in that fund.
One of our investigators then considered the complaint. His key arguments were:
- Its not uncommon for advisers to offer an ongoing advice service, but Mr Es 
agreement with DD appeared to be for it to provide advice on request.
- DD could have done more to make the service attached to the advice Mr E was 
getting clearer to him in their subsequent interactions  and it may be responsible for 
raising his expectations.
- However, it was reasonable to conclude overall that Mr E had been made aware that 
DD wouldnt be monitoring his pension funds. He would need to review how the 
Aviva pension was performing himself and seek advice if he needed it.
- The lack of any regular (e.g. annual) review date being agreed or referred to by either 
party, or any ongoing fees being paid from the pension, was further evidence of this.
- The investigator had no reason to doubt that DD would have cautioned him against 
moving to cash, although DD wasnt able to evidence this.
- Mr E could have chosen sooner to take the action he took himself in 2020, to move 
back into the markets: hed provided no evidence that DD had agreed to get back to 
him in a timescale of three months, or that he chased it after that period had elapsed.
DD had shown that had Mr E remained in the Mixed Investment (0-35% shares) fund 
throughout, by September 2021 he would have had a value of £471,553. By coming out and 
then going back into the markets (albeit late), Mr E had achieved a value of £446,269  
which was still better than if he hadnt gone back into the markets at all (£398,080). The 
investigator said that ultimately the timing of this was Mr Es decision.
The investigator agreed that DD was right to apologise for not updating him when his 
assigned adviser changed. He understood why Mr E no longer had any confidence in DD. 
But he didnt think it had to do anything more here, given that there wasnt an ongoing advice 
agreement in place and it had already offered Mr E £300.
Mr E didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
- No exclusions or qualifications in relation to the timescale or scope of the ongoing 
advice agreement were highlighted by DD to him.
- It agreed to manage and advise his pension for no charge, effectively because 
enough charges were being taken from the other investments
- DD never requested payment of a fee when it freely assisted him with his pension, 
meaning he was entitled to think he was receiving an ongoing advice service.
-At no time did [adviser who was ill] ever advise me not to move my pension into 
cash. He failed to propose any alternatives and left Mr E with no other option.
- He expects to see proof that DD advised him to remain invested, rather than 
assumptions being made.
-Why offer me, and agree to provide me with, ongoing advice at nil% if they never 
had any intention of providing the same?
- No feedback ever arose from the advisers comment, if there are any changes 
expected that will affect the funds we will inform you of any changes that are 
recommended.
- He had found it difficult to deal with Aviva directly as they usually referred him back to 
DD as his registered adviser. He had constantly attempted to contact DD.
      -     If he had received any feasible advice from DD before his pension was moved into
 cash, the shortfall in value wouldnt be so great.       
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The service DD was providing to Mr E
Its disappointing that DD has no evidence of much of the later contact between Mr E and its 
firm. This is a standard of record-keeping that falls well below that expected by the regulator 
and by good industry practice. However I think the first part of Mr Es complaint, regarding 
what type of service he had signed up to, isnt affected by this issue.
I dont think Mr E can reasonably say that a fee set at 0% for ongoing adviser charges 
means that a service had nonetheless been agreed, but just a free one. On the pension 
application form Aviva asks DD to fill in these percentages so that it knows what to deduct 
from the pension; not what services are being offered. Those are two different things.
I also cant safely rely on the client authority form (for fees) on DDs file, both because it is 
incomplete and also because its clear that even the 0.5% ongoing fee mentioned here later 
changed to 0.4%. I can only assume that this was tentatively filled out at an earlier stage in 
discussions. What the rest of DDs initial client documentation does however make clear is 
that the nature, scope and cost of any ongoing service was specific to each client. 
Ive seen no evidence that Mr E was already paying for an ongoing advice service before 
2017. He was invested in managed funds which were intended as long-term pension 
investment and already had a broad mandate covering assets such as shares and bonds. 
They wouldnt typically need the additional costs typically associated with ongoing reviews.
There was nothing to stop DD agreeing to provide that service on the new personal pension 
it was setting up. However a key reason why it was able to recommend a transfer to the 
personal pension in 2016 was because the costs were being kept low. An extra 0.4%pa on 
the personal pension may have made it cheaper to leave one or both of his existing plans 
where they were. And on balance, I find it unlikely that DD offered a new service that he 
wasnt already getting for free. The fund selected in the new Aviva pension was again 
broadly managed, and I find it likely that more specialised funds would have been chosen 
where the adviser intended to carry out regular reviews themselves.
I agree with Mr E that the initial fee DD collected from the investment portfolio likely 
subsidised the work it did on the pension. But that doesnt demonstrate that there was an 
agreement for the ongoing fee on investments to do the same. As Ive set out above, earlier 
on in the relationship (for example in February 2017), Mr E was only specific in confirming 
with DD that the investments would be reviewed on an ongoing basis, and I think thats 
consistent with his likely understanding of why there were zero charges on the pension.
Later on in January 2018 Mr E was less precise about the product when he asked, Can you 
please confirm that you will continue to monitor my portfolio in order to guard me against any 
market changes. By DDs own admission, its response should have been clearer. But I can 
see why DD would have had difficulty answering Mr Es question because, even on those 
investments it was reviewing on an ongoing basis, it wasnt in a position to guard him 
against a market change. By their very nature, these changes are often only apparent once 
theyve happened, and the funds have been affected.
In my view DD was attempting to explain that the fund manager was responsible for 
positioning the fund in such a way that different assets would be affected in different ways 
(positively or negatively) to hedge against changes in the markets  and from time to time it 
might alter the mix of assets in the fund given the likelihood of future events. DD might also 
determine at a later point in time, if it was carrying out an review in line with an agreement 
(or if prompted by Mr E), that the funds assets had drifted out of line with his overall 
objectives  or that a better fund was better suited to his circumstances. Although DDs reply could have been clearer, Im not satisfied that Mr E can rely on an 
absence of evidence that an ongoing review service was being provided on his pension to 
benefit from that service, when I dont think it was specifically offered or agreed with him. I 
also dont agree that simply because DD assisted Mr E when he asked, this is evidence of 
some contractual ongoing advice agreement. It could just as easily be evidence of advice 
being provided at his request on an ad hoc basis. That is also compatible with DDs terms of 
business, and I think its what DD was doing in this case.
Neither DD nor the fund manager was going to be able to time the markets with sufficient 
accuracy to move Mr E entirely from one type of asset to another and avoid the negative 
impact of a market change. And that brings me to the second aspect of Mr Es complaint, 
because that was what he was attempting to do himself when he switched to cash.
Market timing
Later in 2018 Mr E became concerned that Brexit was impacting the value of his investment. 
The low share content in the in the Aviva Mixed (0-35% shares) fund means that it would be 
regarded as relatively cautious, but where the share content reduces the bond holding 
usually increases. Bonds may display less volatility overall, but are not immune to changes 
in the markets.
DD accepts that when Mr E first asked about this, there was no adviser designated to him. 
However that doesnt mean, if there had been, they would have recommended he switch out 
of this fund. Mr E had been recorded as having a cautious attitude to risk, and as a 
continuation of a long-term pension investment, the fund he was in doesnt look inconsistent 
with that. The difficulty in switching to cash at that point is Mr E would be crystallising a fall in 
the fund and would then most likely miss the most opportune moment to switch back into the 
fund  as the best time in the market can only be seen with hindsight.
I also dont think it unlikely that the adviser cautioned Mr E against switching. After all, DD 
had recommended this fund previously. It met his attitude to risk and even if he was now 
nearing retirement, DD knew this at the time of its original recommendation and it would 
have been prudent to retain a low exposure to shares as the markets could also have risen. 
Mr E was reacting to short-term market movements. Although there are no records of 
contact, DDs proprietor does recall the adviser discussing Mr Es wish to switch with him  
and again Im not surprised. For all the reasons Ive given above, there were more grounds 
to consider Mr E was likely making a mistake in the long term by switching to cash, than not. 
Ive considered whether Mr E would likely have acted any differently if hed had prompter 
dialogue with DD in the first place. I accept its possible that he would have retained more 
confidence in DD and remained in the Aviva Mixed (0-35% shares) fund, but I havent 
concluded thats most plausible. Given that he had remained in that fund up until the point 
DD likely did caution him against leaving it, and he still went ahead, I think thats most likely 
to be what always would have happened. I also agree with DDs point that, in the end and 
subject to cautioning Mr E, it wasnt able to stand in the way of his request. 
I dont have any evidence to show DD actually advised Mr E to make this switch, and some 
of his recollections are contradictory: in particular, where he says he only did it because DD 
hadnt got back to him. I also find it unlikely that Mr E would be accepting responsibility for 
switching his other investments to cash, if in fact DD had advised him to do that on the 
pension already. I think in fact that comment serves to demonstrate why Mr E would likely 
always have switched all his funds (pension and investment) to cash at that time.
Later on, it appears Mr Es risk outlook changed  as evidenced by what seems to be a new 
attitude to risk assessment and being prepared to defer his retirement date a little further  and he was willing to go back into the markets. Whilst I dont have anything from DD to 
corroborate that it gave advice here, it admits unrecorded discussions took place. And drip-
feeding into the markets wouldnt have been unsuitable advice because it avoids a large 
reinvestment taking place on a date which later proves to be mis-timed. 
Unfortunately, market conditions changed again  and the severity and duration of the 
market fall during the circumstances of Covid-19 was even harder for advisers or fund 
managers to judge because of its unprecedented nature. Whilst Mr E says he was waiting 
for DD to let him know what to do, he hasnt given any evidence of what he asked  but I 
dont think the outcome of any discussion would have gone much differently to how it had 
gone in 2018. Mr E was wanting to take more risk but was concerned about losing money. 
Ultimately if he wasnt happy with going back into the markets at this time, I dont think he 
would have done so.
Other issues
DD has apologised that Mr E frequently found that the adviser hed been expecting to deal 
with had changed. Given that he did actually have an ongoing review service (in respect of 
his investments), and DD should have been aware in any event that Mr E sought ad hoc 
advice on his pension, I agree it should have done better in keeping him informed when 
advisers were ill or left the firm. But like the investigator, I havent been able to demonstrate 
that Mr E is in a worse off position financially as a result of this.
The offer of £300 from DD doesnt appear to be based on a particular course of action Mr E 
would have taken. I can understand why Mr E has been confused by it when DD did actually 
tell him how much better off hed have been by doing nothing and remaining where he was. 
In fact I think Mr E would most likely have switched into and back out of cash when he did, 
even had it not been for DDs shortcomings. That means he would have suffered small 
losses due to charges for the time he remained in cash, which there is no obligation on DD 
to compensate him for.
However, DD extended this offer to Mr E in goodwill and Ive taken it into account as a 
broader reflection of its admitted poor service to him during the events of the complaint. I 
think it would be fair and reasonable for DD to pay this as compensation to Mr E if he 
accepts my decision.
My final decision
Trevor Downing Financial Management (IFA) Limited has already made an offer to pay £300 
to settle the complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is 
that Trevor Downing Financial Management (IFA) Limited should pay £300 to Mr E.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman