DRN-2307760
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy as he feels that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold him three personal loans on 
the basis it didnt do enough to check that they were affordable to him. 
What happened
Mr P was an existing customer of Barclays and held a current account with it. In February 
2016 Mr P applied for two personal loans through Barclays web site. These were loans that 
he was said to be pre-approved for. The loans were both taken out on the same day.
The first loan was for £5,000, repayable over five years, with repayments of roughly £115 
per month. The second loan was for £20,000, again repayable over five years, with 
repayments of around £392 per month. Barclays says the purposes Mr P noted when 
applying for the loans were for debt consolidation and home improvements. I can see that he 
used just over £18,500 of the amount borrowed to repay existing debts.
In September 2016 Mr P applied for a further loan with Barclays. Again, this was done 
online, and Mr P was said to have been pre-approved. Mr P borrowed a further £25,000, 
repayable over five years, with monthly repayments of £490. Just under £14,150 of this was 
again used to repay existing debt, external to Barclays.
Mr P complained to Barclays in 2019 that he felt these loans had been mis-sold to him. He 
said he didnt think Barclays had carried out appropriate checks, or done due diligence, 
around his ability to afford the repayments. He explained that he was now unable to afford 
the repayments and said hed been struggling with them for some time.
Barclays said it didnt think it had done anything wrong, noting that Mr P had directly applied 
for the loans without any discussions with it. Unhappy with this response Mr P asked our 
service to look into his complaint.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think Barclays had done 
anything wrong. She felt the information available around the applications, the operation of 
Mr Ps current account with Barclays and how his other accounts externally had been 
operated indicated that the decision to provide the loans was reasonable. So, she didnt 
think she could say Barclays had lent irresponsibly. In relation to the difficulty Mr P was now 
experiencing making repayments, she said that Barclays had a duty to treat him positively 
and sympathetically and it appeared that it had done, so far.
Mr P did not agree. He said he did not think Barclays had done enough to check that the 
loans were affordable so didnt think hed been treated fairly. As Mr P did not agree with the 
investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The information Ive been provided indicates that Mr P applied for these loans online without 
speaking to a member of staff at Barclays. And Mr P has confirmed as much. So, he wasnt 
provided with advice in relation to the loans he applied for when he took them out. 
Regardless of this however, when lending to a customer, businesses need to make sure 
they do so in a responsible manner  including where the lending is requested by the 
customer. There isnt a set requirement of what a business must do in every instance. But 
they are expected generally to carry out appropriate and proportionate borrower focused 
checks around the affordability of any lending, before providing it, and to ensure a borrower 
can afford to make and sustain the repayments, taking account of their financial situation. 
Mr P doesnt think Barclays acted responsibly, when providing these three loans as he 
doesnt think it did enough to check that they were affordable to him. 
As I mentioned Mr P holds a current account with Barclays. And from what I can see his 
salary is paid into this account and his regular expenditure, such as bills, paid from it. 
Barclays has said that this information, along with information from credit reference agencies 
was used to assess what level of lending it was willing to provide to Mr P, which he could 
then choose to apply for. The amount of lending here across the three loans was obviously 
significant. But I think using the information Barclays has described was an appropriate way 
to check if the loans were affordable or not. The information showed what Mr P was actually 
receiving and paying out each month and by relying on this information, I think it is fair to say 
that the checks carried out were focussed specifically to Mr Ps circumstances.
Having reviewed current account statements I can see that there was regularly a high 
turnover of transactions through the account. But this doesnt necessarily suggest that Mr P 
wouldve had difficulty affording the repayments. Barclays has explained that it based its 
calculations on some assumptions around the transactions to and from the account  such 
as what income and outgoings were regular as opposed to one off, discretionary or non-
essential. Mr P says that Barclays shouldve asked him to verify this information and by not 
doing so Barclays acted incorrectly. But I dont think I agree. Again, Ive looked at the 
statements and compared these with what Barclays has based its affordability calculations 
on, and I dont think the assumptions were unreasonable. And I dont think the making of 
these assumptions made the lending irresponsible, as they were based on actual 
documented account activity. 
Mr Ps credit file indicates that the accounts he held with other businesses at the time of 
taking the loans were up to date and it doesnt appear that hed missed any payments. Mr P 
has said that the fact he had significant borrowing elsewhere at the time of applying for these 
loans shouldve indicated to Barclays that it shouldnt have lent to him. But as I say these 
accounts were up to date, and the existence of other debts doesnt necessarily make the 
decision to provide additional lending irresponsible  provided the lender is satisfied the new 
borrowing is also affordable on top of existing commitments. And also, Barclays records 
indicate that debt consolidation was one of the reasons given for wanting the loans  which 
wouldve suggested that the amount of other debt was going to decrease, as would the 
required payments to these other debts. And indeed, I can see that a large portion of the 
borrowing Mr P took from Barclays was used to repay and consolidate a lot of this existing 
borrowing. Mr Ps credit file and the loan statements also suggest that his accounts were 
maintained well for some time after the loans were taken, with no missed payments until late 
2019.I can see that Mr P did make regular use of his overdraft prior to the loans being granted and 
often spent a large proportion of the amounts received into the account. But I do think that a 
reasonable amount of this expenditure wouldve been considered optional  rather than 
committed essential expenditure. So, I think Barclays view that Mr P had disposable income 
available, which could be used to service repayments, but was simply choosing to use it for 
other purposes before applying for the loans, seems to have been reasonable. And I think its 
calculation of the level of disposable income available was reasonable and indicated that the 
loan repayments were affordable when each loan was applied for. And I think the available 
information, and Barclays calculations, also reasonably indicated that the repayments were 
sustainable.
Mr P has said he has continued to use credit elsewhere which has contributed to these loans 
being unaffordable. And hes indicated he thinks Barclays shouldve anticipated this before 
agreeing to lend. But again, I dont think I agree with him on this point. Barclays made its 
decision on the level of borrowing it was willing to make available to him based on the 
information available to it at the time. I dont think there was anything that wouldve indicated 
to it that Mr P was in financial difficulties at that point. And I dont think it is responsible for, or 
couldve reasonably anticipated, decisions hes made at a later date.
So overall, based on the information Ive seen, I think Barclays carried out appropriate 
checks before deciding what level of borrowing it was willing to make available to Mr P. And I 
dont think I can reasonably say that Barclays lent irresponsibly when it provided these 
loans.
As Ive said, Mr P has indicated when bringing his complaint that he is now in financial 
difficulties. And hes said that he has been struggling with the repayment of these loans for 
some time. 
When a borrower experiences financial difficulty, and informs a lender of this, Id expect the 
lender to look at how it can assist them and to treat them fairly. Barclays notes indicate that 
Mr P contacted it in January 2018 to say that hed been experiencing some difficulties with 
his finances  mentioning some unexpected expenditure. The notes indicate that Barclays 
asked for information about his income and expenditure and suggested potential solutions 
such as a repayment plan  which I think was fair. But Mr P did not want to take this up as it 
wouldve affected his credit file. 
Repayments to all three loans then continued as scheduled until late 2019. At that point Mr P 
again spoke to Barclays as hed been unable to make a payment  again mentioning some 
unanticipated extra expenses. It appears Barclays again looked at what he could afford and 
proposed a repayment arrangement. Again, I think this was reasonable. It appears Mr P 
accepted this proposal but is unhappy his credit file will be affected. But I dont think it is 
unreasonable that Barclays report that the scheduled repayments have not been maintained 
in full  even when an agreement is in place.
Overall, I think it seems that Barclays has treated Mr P fairly when he contacted it to inform it 
of the difficulties he was experiencing. So, I dont think I can say it has done anything wrong. 
Moving forward, if Mr P engages with Barclays further on this issue, Id expect it to continue 
to try to assist and act positively and sympathetically to any ongoing issues he is having.My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2021.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman