DRN-3612306
The complaint
Mr W complains that Santander UK Plc mishandled his claim under section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
What happened
In April 2020 Mr W bought a wooden summerhouse from a retailer using the credit card he 
held with Santander to finance the purchase. The summerhouse cost £992 and was 
advertised as being made using the finest materials and craftsmanship available, our 
summerhouse will withstand all the elements our British weather can throw at it.
The summerhouse was supplied as a self-build flat pack by the retailer. They didnt offer an 
optional installation service. The retailer says the summerhouse was primarily made of pre-
constructed wooden panels. The customer therefore receives a series of wall, roof or floor 
pieces that are to be screwed together to form the house. Fitting of the doors and windows is 
the customers responsibility. There were instructions provided with the summerhouse which 
showed there were 52 stages from start to completion in terms of building the summerhouse.
Mr Ws son built the summerhouse as he had experience in doing so. But unfortunately 
following some heavy winds that occurred only a short time after its installation the roof felt 
blew off and the ceiling to window glazing which was made of Perspex shattered.
In May 2020 Mr W complained to the retailer about the quality of the Perspex that had been 
supplied, that the roof panels werent of uniform thickness and that the felting tacks provided 
hadnt been adequate to properly grip the roof.
Mr W supplied his own felt which the cost of which the retailer reimbursed. The retailer 
supplied new Perspex for the shattered windows. However, a short time later the glazing 
blew out for a second time. Mr W decided to board up one window and reinforced the others 
by installing cross members. There followed a series of phone calls and emails between Mr 
W and the retailer due to Mr Ws concerns about the quality of the summerhouse.
Mr W contacted Santander and requested a refund under section 75 for the summerhouse. 
He said the summerhouse had been misrepresented and that a breach of contract had 
arisen due to the poor quality of the wood that had been supplied. Mr W spoke with 
Santander in July 2020 asking what further information it might need. But in August 2020 Mr 
W received a letter from Santander saying his claim had been declined due to there being 
insufficient evidence provided by Mr W to show there had been a breach of contract.
Mr W was unhappy at Santanders response to his claim and so he sent in a number of 
photos that showed some of the problems with the wood used for the summer house such 
as warping and splitting. Mr W said that as the summerhouse had been misrepresented as 
to its quality, he wanted to be fully reimbursed the £992 cost.
In September 2020, Santander contacted Mr W and said the retailer was prepared to make a 
gesture of goodwill and reimburse 25% of the cost of the summerhouse together with 
replacing the faulty parts. Santander said that the retailer had expressed a view that the 
faults with the summerhouse were due to how it had been constructed. Mr W said he wasnt 
happy at this offer and Santander responded that it would need to see an independent 
expert report as to the quality of the summerhouse. Mr W says he asked Santander who 
would be recognised as an expert, but it didnt provide him with an answer to that question.
In October 2020 Santander wrote to Mr W and said that an independent report would be 
required if a different outcome was sought by Mr W. In December 2020 Mr W arranged for a 
local tradesperson to inspect the summerhouse and prepare a report. This report set out that 
in the tradespersons opinion this was not a quality product and inferior wood had been 
used. They said both the wood and the plastic material used for the windows werent fit for 
purpose. They also stated, The way you erected the summerhouse is not the cause of 
these unsatisfactory elements.
Santander reviewed Mr Ws claim and in February 2021 wrote to him and said that although 
the report provided had highlighted issues with the materials that made up the 
summerhouse, it makes no mention of an actual fault. It said the report didnt establish 
there was an inherent fault with the product. Santander confirmed it had shared the report 
with the retailer who indicated the summerhouse hadnt been maintained as instructed and 
that by erecting the summerhouse Mr W had accepted ownership of it, having chosen the 
option to install rather than return the goods. Santander said Mr W didnt have a valid claim 
under section 75.
Mr W complained to this service about Santanders handling of his claim. Our investigator 
recommended that Mr Ws complaint should be partially upheld.
Our investigator said that he didnt think the summerhouse had been misrepresented to Mr 
W because the use of the wording finest materials available was relative and subjective 
to the cost paid. However, on the evidence provided, our investigator was satisfied that there 
were faults with the summerhouse and that some of the materials provided were not up to 
standard for erecting a summerhouse. He said there had been a breach of contract.
In regard to a fair settlement, our investigator said that it would be fair for Santander to 
arrange for all the substandard parts to be replaced. He said the 25% discount offered by the 
retailer was a matter for the retailer and not Santander to reimburse as part of Mr Ws 
section 75 claim.
Our investigator also said that he didnt think Mr W had received clear information about his 
claim and that Santander had made some service errors. He thought £100 compensation 
would be fair in the circumstances.
Santander accepted our investigators view, but Mr W strongly disagreed. He said that the 
summerhouse had been misrepresented to him because the materials were inferior to those 
used for comparably priced summerhouses. He said he had only purchased this 
summerhouse because of the claims made by the retailer. Mr W said he remained unhappy 
at the 25% discount offer which he thought was unfair.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement then the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision along the following lines.
The issue for me to consider here was whether Santander had handled Mr Ws claim for 
reimbursement of the cost of the summerhouse fairly. Mr Ws complaint had raised both that 
the summerhouse had been misrepresented and that there had been a breach of contract 
due to the faulty parts.
When Mr W made his claim to Santander, Id seen that it was only considered under section 
75. Santander hadnt looked at using the chargeback scheme. Santander said this was because Mr W had only sought reimbursement via section 75, and it had followed his 
instructions.
Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments made on the card 
through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card 
networks. It allows customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with 
the goods or services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt 
a guaranteed method of getting a refund.
As with a section 75 claim, under the chargeback scheme a retailer can defend a claim and 
Id seen that the retailer hadnt accepted that the summerhouse had been misrepresented or 
that it was necessarily faulty. The offer of 25% discount was made as a gesture of goodwill 
and not as an admission of fault. I didnt think that a chargeback claim would have been 
easier or that a different outcome would have been reached. So, I thought it was likely the 
end result would have been the same as it was under the section 75 claim.
The general effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that if a consumer has 
paid for goods or services with a credit agreement, such as a credit card, and they have a 
claim against the supplier of those goods or services for misrepresentation or breach of 
contract, they are given a like claim against the credit provider which here is Santander.
Id seen that Mr W felt very strongly that the summerhouse had been misrepresented to him 
but before I considered the evidence in respect of that, I dealt first with the issue of the 
breach of contract as I considered that was more straight forward.
Mr W had provided a number of photos showing the warping and splitting of various parts of 
the summerhouse. He had also provided a report from a local tradesman who had 
expressed their opinion as to the wood that was used.
Id seen that the retailer had raised that, in their opinion, some of the issues experienced by 
Mr W with the summerhouse were due to the way it had been constructed and that it had not 
then been properly had maintained. They said, Timber is a natural material; knots can split 
over time if not treated and wood can bow with weather or expand and contract with 
moisture content. The retailer also queried the expertise of the author of the report provided 
by Mr W.
However, Id seen that both Mr Ws son, who constructed the summerhouse, and the author 
of the report had experience with building this type of building. So, I thought it was more 
likely than not that the summerhouse had been competently constructed. I also thought the 
tradesman was sufficiently experienced to be able to comment on what he had found when 
he had inspected the summerhouse, in particular that the issues with the building werent 
linked to the way it had been constructed. I also noted that the retailer had only seen photos 
of the summerhouse and hadnt inspected it for themselves.
Id also seen that the retailer had accepted that there were parts of the summerhouse which 
appeared defective from the photos and that these defects had arisen within a short time of 
the summerhouse being delivered and installed. I didnt give weight to the retailers view that 
the warping may have been due to the timber not being properly treated, again because of 
the short space of time between the supply of the summerhouse and the splitting and 
warping that had then occurred. This made it unlikely for these issues to have developed 
because of a lack of maintenance care by Mr W.
I appreciated Mr W said the Perspex used for the windows had been inadequate and this 
view had been endorsed by the tradesman who had inspected the summerhouse. But this 
was the material as advertised by the retailer, and so although it was of disappointment to Mr W, I didnt think I could reasonably say that it wasnt fit for purpose. The retailer said that 
issues with the glazing could be caused by the construction of the summerhouse and so I 
couldnt rule out that the warping of the wood meant the windows didnt now fit as they 
should.
So, I disagreed with the view of Santander that there wasnt enough evidence to say that the 
summerhouse wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I thought there had been a 
breach of contract.
Our investigator said that on the basis of the breach of contract it would be fair for Santander 
to arrange for the faulty items to be replaced. But I disagreed with that view. This was 
because the warping appeared to have affected a number of different areas including the 
roof structure and doorways. It appeared likely that to replace all of the faulty parts would 
require a dismantling of the summerhouse and then rebuilding it. I also thought it was likely 
that over time those parts that had warped would have had an impact on other parts and the 
stability and waterproofing of the summerhouse. And since some of the parts were now 
weathered, I was unsure what the summerhouse with various new parts would look like, I 
didnt think it would have the usual and uniform look that would be expected. I thought that, 
in all the circumstances, it would be fairer to say the whole summerhouse would need 
replacing.
Id seen Mr W had lost confidence in the summerhouse, and I thought he had already given 
the retailer an opportunity of repair (they had supplied the Perspex twice and paid for the 
new roof felt). I thought that here a fair and reasonable solution was for Mr W to be 
reimbursed the full cost of the summerhouse due to the breach of contract. I was satisfied 
that the issues he had experienced with it meant that he hadnt had any real use or 
enjoyment from the product.
As I thought a full reimbursement of the £992 was a fair settlement for the breach of 
contract. I didnt intend to look at the misrepresentation in detail save to say that I didnt think 
there was sufficient evidence here that the retailer had made a false statement of fact which 
induced Mr W to enter into the contract. That was because the wording of the advert could 
be taken very subjectively as to what it meant in regard to finest materials and the 
expectation of quality could also be impacted when considering the price. Arguably the wood 
used is the finest when taking into account the price charged although I appreciated it hadnt 
matched Mr Ws expectations. However, I didnt think I had sufficient evidence to say this 
summerhouse couldnt be fit for purpose due to the materials that had been used.
Id also seen that Santander hadnt been as clear and as helpful as it couldve been in 
respect of Mr Ws claim. In particular explaining what would have been acceptable as an 
independent report and the early closure of the claim due to lack of evidence. Mr W also said 
the retailers offer wasnt properly set out to him, so he was unclear about what was being 
suggested as a settlement. In these circumstances, I thought Santander had added to Mr 
Ws distress and inconvenience over the summerhouse. I thought compensation of £100 to 
Mr W in these circumstances was fair and reasonable.
So, for the reasons given I intended to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I asked Santander to do the 
following:
To re-work Mr Ws credit card account as if £992 had not been paid, 
refunding any payments made, interest and charges in respect of that amount. 
If this calculation resulted in a credit balance, Santander needed to refund this 
and pay interest on it at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date of 
said credit balance to the date of settlement.Pay Mr W £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by his section 75 claim.
Santander said that while it acknowledged there had been a breach of contract the 
summerhouse hadnt yet been dismantled and appeared to remain in a usable 
condition. It said that to provide a full refund would potentially place Mr W into a 
position of betterment if he intended to keep the summerhouse, and that this would be 
a breach of the rules of section 75. Santander said that if Mr W intended to keep the 
summer a 50% reimbursement together with the compensation would be fair.
Mr W says he agrees with my provisional view. He said the summerhouse, although 
still standing, leaks and now takes two people to close the doors. Mr W says that its 
nearly impossible to actually secure and lock the summerhouse doors. He would be 
happy for Santander to remove it but recognised this would have a cost implication for 
it which would be likely to make that not worthwhile.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has asked me to reconsider the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision as to the quality of the summerhouse, so I havent changed my view that it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply to Mr W. I am still upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Santander has raised the possibility of betterment if Mr W received a full reimbursement but 
continues to use the summerhouse. I think Mr W has been clear that his intention was to 
replace it once the cost of the original one was reimbursed. His description of the current 
state of the summerhouse corroborates his earlier evidence as to its defects. It appears the 
leaks are continuing to warp the wood and there is considerable difficulty closing the doors. I 
think its reasonable to say that the summerhouse although still currently standing isnt in a 
useable condition. I therefore dont agree that reimbursing Mr W the full cost of the 
summerhouse will place him in a better position, and I havent changed my view as to what 
would be a fair and reasonable settlement for Mr W. 
Putting things right
Im asking Santander to do the following:
To re-work Mr Ws credit card account as if £992 had not been paid, 
refunding any payments made, interest and charges in respect of that amount. 
If this calculation results in a credit balance, Santander needs to refund this and 
pay interest on it at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date of said 
credit balance to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr W £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by his section 75 claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Im asking Santander UK Plc 
to do the following:To re-work Mr Ws credit card account as if £992 had not been paid, 
refunding any payments made, interest and charges in respect of that amount. 
If this calculation results in a credit balance, Santander needs to refund this and 
pay interest on it at a rate of 8% simple per year calculated from the date of said 
credit balance to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr W £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by his section 75 claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman