DRN-4370032
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited has declined a claim she made 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B made a claim to Accredited after discovering a significant water ingress to her 
property on her return from a trip away. She says there were storm conditions during this 
time, and that her neighbours reported hearing a loud bang on the evening of 31 October 
2022, which they say could have been a lightning strike.
Ultimately Accredited declined the claim. It noted there were storm conditions at or around 
the time, but it didnt think this was the dominant cause of damage to Mrs Bs property. 
Instead, Accredited said the storms had highlighted existing wear and tear issues with her 
chimney and roof, and these issues were the dominant cause of the damage.
Unhappy with Accrediteds position, Mrs B approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things, but she didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. She agreed that the dominant cause of damage appeared to be wear and tear, 
rather than a lightning strike or storm related damage.
Mrs B didnt agree, so as no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me to 
decide.
I was minded to reach the same outcome as our investigator. But because my reasoning 
was slightly more detailed, and different in places, I issued a provisional decision to give the 
parties the opportunity to respond before I reached my final decision. Heres what I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and whilst I appreciate it will come as a disappointment to Mrs B, 
Ive reached the same overall outcome as our investigator. However, my reasons for 
doing so are different in places, and Ive also gone into some additional detail. So, 
Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties the opportunity to respond to my 
provisional conclusions before I reach my final decision.
But firstly, Ill explain that while Mrs B has brought her complaint to us through a 
representative, Ill only refer to Mrs B by name in this provisional decision, even when 
referring to evidence or arguments put forward by her representative.
Secondly, I should explain that I dont intend on commenting on every individual point 
which has been raised throughout the claim and complaint. Instead, Ill focus on the 
key points which are important in me reaching my provisional decision. I dont mean 
this as a discourtesy, instead it reflects the informal nature of this service, and my 
role within it. But Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the 
information theyve provided when reaching my provisional decision. 
Lightning
Mrs Bs policy provides cover for damage caused by lightning. 
Ive checked weather reports from around the time the damage was reported, and 
these suggest that there was lightning in the area on 1 November 2022.
However, other than a few slipped tiles, Ive seen no significant areas of damage to 
Mrs Bs roof which could be considered consistent with damage caused when 
lightning strikes a roof. 
Had there been a lightning strike, I would expect to see much more significant 
damage wherever the point of impact was. But Im unable to identify any part of the 
property which appears to have suffered such damage. In addition, Mrs B herself has 
accepted that nobody witnessed lightning striking her property and 1 November 
2022, which is when the weather records show there was lightning, is after the loud 
bang which was reported.
So, taking the above into account, Im not persuaded that there is sufficient evidence 
of a lightning strike for the damage to be covered under this section of the policy.
Storm damage
Mrs Bs policy also provides cover for damage caused by storm, with my added 
emphasis on the exclusion Accredited is seeking to rely on:
Storm 
We will cover loss or damage caused by storm.
 
We dont cover: 
a. loss or damage caused by frost; 
b. loss or damage to drives, patios, footpaths, terraces, gates, fences 
and hedges unless your home has been damaged at the same time 
and by the same cause; 
c. loss or damage to radio and television aerials or satellite dishes, and 
their fittings and masts; 
d. loss or damage to swimming pools, fixed hot tubs and their fixtures, 
fittings, covers, enclosures and accessories; and 
e. anything that happens gradually.
Properties are designed to withstand all but the most extreme weather 
conditions. Damage caused by normal weather conditions is not covered by 
this policy, as normal weather conditions should not cause damage to a well-
maintained property.
And storm is defined in the policy as:Storm
A period of violent weather defined as: 
a. a gale of Force 10 or above (as defined under the internationally 
recognised Beaufort Scale) reaching wind speeds of at least 55 mph; 
or 
b. torrential rain that falls at a rate of at least 25mm per hour; or 
c. snow that falls to a depth of at least 30cm in 24 hours; or 
d. hail so severe that it causes damage to hard surfaces or breaks glass
When our service considers complaints about storm damage claims, we take into 
account the following questions, and if any of the answers are no then its likely a 
claim wont succeed:
Were there storm conditions?
Is the damage consistent with storm type damage?
Was the storm the main or dominant cause of the damage?
Accredited doesnt dispute there were storm conditions. But for completeness, Ive 
also checked the weather records myself for the time. I think there were storm 
conditions at the time, so Ive gone on to consider the next two questions.
There are some slipped tiles on the roof and there has been significant water ingress 
around the gable end of the property. Damage like this is consistent with damage 
typically caused during storms, so this potentially satisfies question two.
Accredited has declined Mrs Bs claim on the basis that her roof and chimney were 
showing significant signs of pre-existing gradual damage, which isnt covered under 
the policy, and which it says are more likely the dominant cause of damage. This 
means its arguing that the answer to question three is no.
Mrs B says there is no evidence of any prior damage internally, because there has 
never been any. So, she says there is a clearly identifiable storm event which has 
caused the damage to her property.
In situations like this, where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, Ill make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I think is more likely than 
not, given the evidence which is available.
Ive considered the available photos and expert evidence, notably Accrediteds 
surveyors report and the comments and quotations Mrs B obtained from various 
roofing contractors. Having done so, and while I appreciate this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs B, I think the decision Accredited have reached on the claim 
was fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
Accrediteds surveyors report contains the following statements/findings:
The very wet areas are on the gable end and in close proximity to the 
chimney.
Ingress of water would appear to be around the chimney which is in need of 
maintenance with worn render and paint. The ingress of water could be due 
to penetrating rains through the render and around the base of the chimney. 
The mono-pitched roof above the study/office was old. Although some tiles 
had slipped this is probably due to nail fatigues (sic).All building materials with (sic) degrade over time and eventually fail. Proper 
and timely maintenance does help prolong the life of any building materials. It 
is a strong probability that the majority of the ingress of water is due to the 
chimney on the gable. The render and paintwork on the chimney is in need of 
maintenance work and possible replacement. The roof above the study/office 
is old as is the flashing. Recent storms have merely highlighted pre-existing 
issues.
I appreciate Mrs B is unhappy that the language in the report is non-committal and 
instead uses terms like probably, could be and strong probability. But as 
explained, I dont need to be persuaded that the surveyors conclusions 100% 
correct, just that his conclusions are more likely than the damage claimed for being 
caused by a single, identifiable storm event.
 
Ive thought carefully about the surveyors report, alongside the photos which have 
been provided and the roofers quotes provided by Mrs B. In my view the available 
photos clearly show significant gradual deterioration to the chimney area, in the form 
of cracking and worn paint and render, as well as a large open space at the base of 
the chimney where it appears flashing is missing.
Mrs Bs own roofers quotations also support this as they stipulate the following works 
are required:
1. To supply access to the chimney
2. To prepare chimney for flaunching
3. To flaunch the top of the chimney with waterproof mortar
4. To apply clear waterproof sealant spray to the chimney
5. To supply and install new leadwork at the base of the chimney using code 
4 lead.
Taking all of the above into account, Im satisfied that the dominant cause of the 
internal water ingress to the dining room and bedroom was most likely the gradual 
deterioration of the chimney and surrounding render/flashing, which was highlighted 
by the storm, rather than the storm being the dominant cause of damage.
In terms of the damage to the mono-pitched lower roof, and the internal water ingress 
to the study, Mrs B has disputed the surveyors conclusions that the roof is old and 
that slipped tiles were caused by nail fatigue. She says the roof is only 18 years old 
which is not old in roofing terms, and that the type of tiles on the roof are interlocking 
and so nail fatigue is extremely unlikely. This latter point has been supported by 
comments from a roofer.
I accept Mrs Bs position on both points, i.e., that 18 years is not particularly old for a 
roof and that Accredited have not sufficiently evidenced that nail fatigue is most likely 
a factor. But based on all the available evidence, Im still persuaded that gradual 
deterioration is the dominant cause of damage.
I say this because while 18 years isnt particularly old for a roof, the rate of gradual 
deterioration can be sped up by other factors, such as location. And both Mrs B and 
the surveyor have commented that the property is in an exposed location on high 
ground, and subject to high winds. A lack of regular maintenance can also impact the 
lifespan of roofing materials and given the condition of the chimney render and 
flashing, and the prevalence of moss on the roof tiles, on balance, I think its unlikely 
that the roof has been regularly maintained. Accredited has also pointed to a broken tile, and a patch repair, on the roof as 
evidence that the materials had begun to fail, although Mrs B says these were 
caused by the storm and the patch repair carried out afterwards.
In any event, the evidence I find most persuasive on this point comes from a 
combination of Accrediteds surveyors report and the roofers quotes provided by 
Mrs B. The surveyors report highlighted the flashing on the lower roof was old, and 
the following quotes were made by some of Mrs Bs roofers:
3. To prepare join where lower roof meets gable
4. To supply and install new leadwork to seal the joint
and
Remove lead flashing from lean to roof and replace with new
Replace broken roof tiles
Rake out failed mortar on verge and replace with new
The above suggests to me that the flashing between the pitched roof and gable had 
most likely failed and required replacing. This failed flashing would likely result in 
water ingress to the study beneath the roof. And likewise, I think above suggests that 
the overall condition of the roof and mortar was likely the cause, or at least a 
contributory factor, to the damaged/slipped tiles. I think issues like this, when 
considered against the apparent lack of regular maintenance and the exposed 
location of the property, support that the damage most likely happened gradually 
over time, and was highlighted by the storm in question, rather the damage having 
happened solely as a result of a one-off storm event.
Taking all the above into account, Im persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that 
the dominant cause of damage to the roof, and interior, of Mrs Bs property was most 
likely gradual deterioration, which is excluded under the policy terms. It therefore 
follows that I think Accrediteds decision to decline to cover the damage under the 
Storm section of the policy, was in line with the terms and conditions and was fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances.
Ive also considered whether any part of the damage to Mrs Bs home, such as the 
interior water ingress, could be covered under any other section of her policy, such 
as the accidental damage extension to cover. However, Mrs Bs policy doesnt 
include this optional cover.
However, I note that Mrs B does have the optional accidental damage to contents 
cover included with her policy. And I can see that she has previously mentioned that 
some of her contents were damaged by the water ingress, in addition to the building. 
I cant see that Accredited has ever considered or reached a decision on a claim for 
any damaged contents. So, if Mrs B wishes to pursue a claim for damaged contents, 
under the accidental damage to contents extension, Id expect Accredited to consider 
it. Should Mrs B be unhappy with the decision it reaches on this potential claim, shell 
be able to raise a new complaint with Accredited about that, which she can then refer 
to our service as a new complaint, subject to our normal rules, if she remains 
unhappy. 
Mrs B is also unhappy that Accredited automatically renewed her policy, and took 
payment for the premium, despite her making it clear in her complaint letter that she 
didnt want to renew her policy. The above issue took place after Mrs Bs complaint about the claim had already been 
answered by Accredited and referred to our service, and so is a separate issue to the 
complaint Im considering here. Im unable to consider the renewal issue as part of 
this complaint.
Should Mrs B remain unhappy about the renewal issue, and the way Accredited has 
responded to it, she should raise a new complaint with Accredited in the first 
instance. Should she then remain unhappy with any final response she receives, 
shell be able to refer those concerns to our service as a new complaint, subject to 
our normal rules.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached my final decision.
Accredited responded to confirm it accepted my provisional conclusions.
Mrs B responded setting out her dissatisfaction with both our investigators assessment and 
my provisional decision. In summary, she said:
Weve not been impartial and have simply sided with Accredited because they are 
the insurer.
She feels she has shared enough evidence to show that the damage happened 
suddenly as a result of the storm as opposed to happening gradually.
Given that the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as I stated, we should have 
considered her suggestion of a compromise settlement, rather than concluding that 
the insurer was right and allowing it to fully decline the claim.
Our investigator mistakenly said there was no rain on the date in question and that 
there was cover for lightning in the policy, and we havent acknowledged these 
errors.
In terms of a potential future claim for damage to her contents, its not her fault that 
Accredited didnt read her complaint letter. She doesnt want to deal with Accredited, 
or our service, ever again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered the responses to my provisional decision. But having done so, 
my conclusions remain unchanged. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear that Mrs B doesnt feel that our service has been impartial in our 
consideration of her complaint. This seems to be because she feels a compromise should 
have been considered or awarded given the lack of complete certainty as to the cause of 
damage to her property. 
As explained in my provisional decision, our service decides complaints on the balance of 
probabilities. We dont need evidence to be 100% conclusive, we just need to be persuaded 
that one sides position or version of events is more likely than the others. If Id been unable to conclude that wear and tear was more likely than storm damage, in 
Mrs Bs case, then I may have considered that a compromise would be fair and reasonable. 
But as I explained, in detail, in my provisional decision, I found that the weight of available 
expert evidence was sufficient to persuade me that dominant cause of damage was wear 
and tear (gradual damage) which was merely highlighted by the storm, rather than the storm 
itself being the main or dominant cause of damage. Nothing in Mrs Bs response has 
persuaded me to change my conclusions here. So, I remain of the view that Accrediteds 
decision to decline the claim, in its entirety, was fair and reasonable.
In terms of our investigator having made mistakes, it might be helpful to explain that an 
ombudsmans decision is completely independent of whats gone before it. My role was to 
look again at all the facts and come to my own conclusions independently of what the 
investigator said. This is why I made no specific comment as to whether those statements 
made by the investigator were correct or incorrect. But I did set out in my provisional 
decision that I accepted there were storm conditions and that Mrs Bs policy covered her for 
damage caused by lightning.
As set out in my provisional decision, I can see that Mrs B did mention some damage to 
contents early in the claim. But it doesnt appear this was ever bottomed out or considered 
as part of the overall claim. For example, I cant see that a list of damaged contents, or any 
supporting evidence, was shared with or obtained by Accredited at the time. And crucially, 
this issue wasnt considered as part of the complaint by Accredited, or commented on in its 
final response letter, which is why Im not able to consider this issue as part of this 
complaint. I can appreciate Mrs Bs disappointment with the outcome to this complaint, but if 
she wants an answer on the contents element, shell need to raise a new complaint with 
Accredited, before referring the complaint to this service if she remains unhappy  subject to 
our usual rules and timescales.
To summarise, I dont agree that there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that the storm 
was the dominant cause of damage. Instead, Im persuaded on balance that the damage 
was most likely the result of wear and tear, which is excluded under the policy terms. So, I 
remain of the view that Accrediteds decision to decline the claim, in its entirety, was in line 
with the policy terms and was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman