DRN-3545403
The complaint
Ms S complains about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA and their decision to provide her 
with a credit account that she feels was unaffordable. Ms S also complains about PayPals 
decision to default her account, and the process they followed when doing so. 
What happened
In May 2018, Ms S applied for a credit account with PayPal. This application was approved 
and Ms S was provided with a credit limit of £5,000. This limit was increased to £6,000 in 
December 2018, seven months later.
Ms S continued to meet the monthly minimum repayments on the account until early 2021, 
when she asked for a payment holiday due to a change in her household income. PayPal 
and Ms S agreed a repayment plan of £50 per month. But Ms S says she was told this 
payment would be taken automatically. But it wasnt. And as Ms S failed to make this 
payment each month, and arrears built on her account, PayPal took the decision to default 
her account in July 2021. Ms S was unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms S didnt think PayPals application of the default was fair. She didnt think she was issued 
with a default notice as she shouldve been. And she didnt think PayPal made it clear the 
agreed repayment amount of £50 wouldnt be taken automatically. And further to this, Ms S 
didnt think the account itself shouldve been provided as she didnt think it was affordable. 
Ms S thought PayPal shouldve realised this before her application was approved in May 
2018 and that making payments to maintain the account had placed her in greater financial 
difficulty. So, Ms S wanted any interest and charges applied to the account to be refunded to 
her, plus 8% simple interest. And she wanted any negative information recorded to her credit 
file to be removed. 
PayPal didnt think theyd acted unfairly when approving Ms Ss credit application. And they 
thought theyd applied the default fairly, in line with the relevant guidance, with the necessary 
notice being provided. So, PayPal didnt think they needed to do anything further. Ms S 
remained unhappy with this response, so she asked our service to continue with our 
investigation.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They didnt think PayPal conducted 
proportionate checks to ensure the credit they were providing was affordable. They thought 
PayPal shouldve done more to understand Ms Ss income and monthly expenses. And they 
thought if PayPal had, they wouldve made a different lending decision. And they explained it 
followed that the account shouldnt have been defaulted, as it shouldnt have been provided 
in the first place. So, they thought PayPal should reduce Ms Ss outstanding debt by 
refunded any interest and charged applied to the account with 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement. And if this led to a surplus, this surplus should be 
paid to Ms S. And they thought any negative information recording to Ms Ss credit file 
should be removed.
Ms S accepted this recommendation. But PayPal didnt. They thought theyd completed 
proportionate checks and that the checks on Ms Ss credit file showed no concerns 
regarding the affordability of the account. And they thought Ms Ss maintenance of the 
account up until 2021 showed she was able to afford the minimum payments. So, they didnt 
think they should do anything more.
Our investigator considered these comments, but their view remained the same. And they 
explained Ms Ss ability to meet the minimum repayment didnt mean the account was 
affordable and they believed Ms S had a reliance on credit, repaying credit with other credit, 
which wouldve been apparent to PayPal had they made further checks before approving the 
application. So, their recommendation remained the same. PayPal didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
Ive first thought about PayPals initial decision to lend to Ms S, and whether I think they 
acted responsibly when doing so as without this decision, there wouldnt have been an 
active account to default.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender such as PayPal must carry out before deciding to 
lend. Instead, the rule set by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
say these checks should be reasonable and proportionate to ensure the lending is 
affordable. And this means satisfying themselves that a customer is able to repay the debt in 
a sustainable way. 
In tis situation, PayPal considered the information Ms S provided in her application against 
the information reported to her credit file. And from this, PayPal offered a credit limit of 
£5,000. So, Ive thought about whether PayPals checks were proportionate to the limit Ms S 
was provided. And I dont think they were.
Ms S stated her monthly income was in the band of £1,500 - £2,000 a month. But this was a 
general banding, and PayPal didnt seek to clarify the actual income Ms S received on 
average. But at both ends of the scale, the credit limit provided was between 2 to 3 times the 
amount of Ms S monthly income. So, I think the actual amount of credit Ms S was provided 
was substantial, and I dont think PayPal using a general income banding without any insight 
into the actual income was proportionate to this.
I can also see that as part of the application, Ms S was asked to provide information 
regarding her living expenses and contributions towards her monthly mortgage. And again, 
both of these were providing in general bands with a £500 range. So, I dont think PayPal 
had a clear picture of Ms S exact expenses and mortgage payments. And because of this, I 
dont think they wouldve had an accurate idea of how this compared to her income. 
Considering the amount of credit being provided, I wouldve expected PayPal to have done 
more to build a clearer picture of Ms S actual financial situation by, for example, requesting 
bank statements at the time. 
Ms S has been unable to provide bank statements from the time of the application due to the 
time that has elapsed. But she has provided bank statements from around a year later and 
shes confirmed her outgoings were similar, less the payments to her PayPal credit account. PayPal have also been unable to provide our service with a copy of the credit file they 
wouldve seen at the time of the application. So, Im unable to know for certain exactly what 
outgoings or incomings Ms S had at the time. But as both parties have been able to provide 
real time information from May 2018, I think its reasonable for me to refer to the statements 
Ms S has been able to provide and rely on her testimony that her outgoings were similar 
around a year before.
And having looked through these, I can see that Ms S income averaged around £1,500 
which was the bottom of the income band she supplied at application. And I can see her 
financial commitments, including payments to manager her existing credit excluding her 
PayPal account, plus insurance, council tax and other utilities alongside her payment to her 
mortgage equated to just over £1,000, which is at the top of the expenses band she selected 
at the point of application.
So, Ms S would be left with just under £500 after these financial commitments. And I can see 
that Ms S paid on average £75 on food, leaving Ms S with just under £200 a month to 
account for travel costs, clothing and other disposable income needs before her PayPal 
credit account payment is taken into consideration. And when I think about affordability, I 
must assume Ms S would utilise the full balance of the account limit she was provided and 
calculate any minimum payments on that basis. So, Ms S monthly payments would equate 
to around £100 a month at a minimum considering the payment information set out in the 
accounts terms and conditions of 2% of the outstanding balance plus any promotional 
purchase offer transaction payment amounts.
And its important to note this would be only the minimum payment. And continued payments 
of only the minimum amount wouldnt been a sustainable way to repay and maintain an 
account, as Ms S would struggle to ever repay the debt in full.
So, because of the above, I dont think PayPal wouldve deemed the credit account with a 
limit of £5,000 to be affordable had they have completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks. And so, I think they acted unfairly, and irresponsibly, when deciding to lender to Ms 
S.
I understand PayPal dont agree with this. And they have pointed to Ms Ss actual 
management of the account, where shes continued to make minimum and sometimes over 
payments. But from Ms S bank statements, I can see that she was entering into her 
overdraft each month, to maintain her credit commitments. So, essentially, Ms S was using 
credit to repay other credit, which I dont think is a sustainable way to maintain her finances. 
So, I cant agree that Ms S management of her account with PayPal should automatically 
mean the account was affordable, and shouldve been provided, in May 2018.
As I think PayPal acted irresponsibly when lending to Ms S initially, it follows that I think the 
limit increase in December 2018 was also unreasonable. And as I dont think Ms S should 
ever have been provided the account, it also follows that PayPals decision to default the 
account was unfair as Ms S should never have been in a position of needing to maintain the 
account in the first place.
As I think PayPal have acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what I think PayPal should do 
to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Ms S back in the position she wouldve been in, had PayPal acted fairly in the first instance. But it shouldnt place Ms S in a position 
of betterment, as we are an independent and impartial service. So, as Ms S has been able to 
utilise the credit limit for purchases, any capital she has spent should be repaid.
But had PayPal acted fairly, I think they wouldve completed proportionate checks before 
approving the application. And if they had, I think the application wouldve been declined, 
deeming it unaffordable to Ms S.
So, Ms S wouldnt have been able to spend on the account. And this means the account 
wouldnt have accrued interest and charges. So, I think PayPal should reduce Ms S 
outstanding debt by refunding all interest and charges that have been applied to the account, 
alongside 8% simple interest from the date of any payments Ms S made towards these to 
the date of settlement. And if this leads to a surplus on the account, this surplus should be 
refunded to Ms S.
And had the account not been provided, the account would not have been reported to Ms S 
credit file. So, I think any negative information reported to her credit file relating to this 
account should be removed. And I think this adequately resolves Ms S complaint relating to 
the default PayPal placed in 2021.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Ms S complaint about PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie 
SCA and I direct them to take the following action:
Reduce Ms S outstanding debt by refunding all the interest and charges applied to 
the account with 8% simple interest of the date of any payments Ms S made to these 
to the date of settlement. If this leads to a surplus on the account this should be 
refunded to Ms S; and
Remove any negative information regarding this account on Ms S credit file.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman