DRN-4369921
The complaint
Miss B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc trading as M&S Bank 
(M&S) irresponsibly gave her a credit card account she couldnt afford.
What happened
In September 2019 Miss B applied for and was granted a credit card account with M&S 
with a credit limit of £4,000. There were no credit limit increases after that. 
Miss B immediately used the new account for two balance transfers at a promotional rate. 
In August 2021 Miss B contacted M&S to say she was getting into difficulty with her account,  
having sought help from a debt charity. This led to M&S agreeing to set up a payment 
arrangement. M&S issued a default notice for the account in February 2022 and the account 
was put into default in April 2022.
Miss B says M&S didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened the  
account. She says if it had, it would have seen that it wasnt affordable for her. 
M&S says it carried out the proper credit checks before granting her the credit, including 
checking her credit file and putting together a full affordability assessment. 
Our adjudicator at first thought that M&S hadnt done anything wrong by granting the credit. 
But having been provided with further information about Miss Bs financial situation, she 
decided to uphold the complaint. 
In my provisional decision dated 7 September 2023 I explained why I wasnt intending to 
uphold this complaint. Essentially, I found that whilst M&S could have carried out better 
proportionate checks before granting the card, even if it had done so it was still likely that 
Miss B was able to afford the card. I set out an extract below:
Did M&S complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss B would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Miss Bs complaint is that M&S provided her with a level of credit that was unaffordable. 
M&S has explained it carried out a credit check using the information Miss B provided on her 
application as well as information obtained from a credit reference agency. It was then able 
to work out what credit it would be able to offer Miss B. 
The checks M&S carried out included looking into her financial situation and the way she 
was managing her existing credit. Ive seen that Miss B told M&S she had a monthly income 
from her work of £30,000, which worked out at a net monthly income of around £2,000. She 
also said she was a private tenant. M&S then used statistical information to work out what 
her monthly outgoings were likely to be and how much disposable income shed have left. 
From the credit check it carried out, M&S calculated Miss B had ongoing credit commitments 
of around £19,000, with around £5,400 by way of credit card debt. M&S therefore decided on 
the credit having worked out she would have around £160 in disposable income available 
each month to fund her payments to the card. 
I am also aware from another unaffordable lending complaint that Miss B has made to us 
that she had taken out at least one other credit card at around this time. But I wouldnt 
necessarily expect this information to have yet been available to M&S when it was carrying 
out its checks before granting this card. 
I agree with our adjudicator that M&S could have carried out better checks before granting 
the credit and that, given the relatively generous opening credit limit, one way to do this 
would have been to verify Miss Bs income and expenditure so as to ensure that shed be 
able to make monthly sustainable repayments. I think sustainability is particularly relevant 
given that Miss B went on to use most of her available credit for balance transfers soon after 
taking out the card for the purposes of paying off other credit she owed. From what Ive seen 
I think better and more proportionate checks would have enabled M&S to gain a more 
thorough understanding of Miss Bs financial circumstances before agreeing to open the 
account. 
What would proportionate checks have shown?
I see our adjudicator asked Miss B for some further details and evidence about her financial 
circumstances at the relevant time. Miss B then sent in some bank statements from two  
accounts she was using that covered the three months before the account was opened. 
Broadly speaking the statements supported the level of income Miss B was receiving and 
her monthly outgoings. Ive also noted that Miss B was making regular use of online 
gambling sites and that her spend on these was notably higher in August 2019. This is a 
concern that may have affected M&Ss decision to grant the credit, especially if it had 
concerns that the new credit would be used to fund additional gambling. But overall Miss B 
appeared to have been managing her credit accounts reasonably well. I cant see that the 
gambling was part of an overall picture of a deteriorating financial situation that would have 
necessarily led to M&S deciding that the new credit was likely to be unaffordable for her. 
I think all this demonstrates that at the time Miss B appears to have had enough disposable 
income available each month to make regular, sustainable repayments towards her new 
credit facility, leaving her with enough to meet other essential costs and still be left with 
disposable income for other and incidental expenses. Had M&S therefore completed 
proportionate checks before granting the credit, I think its likely it would have discovered this 
too. It therefore didnt act unfairly by opening the account for Miss B with the level of credit it 
granted her.
It follows that, having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont 
currently think Ive seen enough to show or suggest that Miss Bs card agreement with M&S 
was unaffordable.
Miss B is unhappy with my provisional decision. She set out details of her financial 
commitments at the time. However, M&S didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.M&S will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I 
dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Although Ive carefully considered everything Miss B has said in response to my decision, 
I will not be changing my non-uphold finding. I am grateful to Miss B for setting out details 
of her financial commitments at the time. This confirms, but doesnt add to the totality of 
the information I had to hand when I issued my provisional decision.
In making my decision I have looked very carefully at whether the account was affordable 
and also whether or not Miss B would be able to sustainably make repayments to her 
card, taking into account the level of disposable income shed have available to her each 
month. In doing so, I have also thought about the evidence and information that M&S had 
access to, or could have found out about at the time had it carried out better and more 
proportionate enquiries. 
Having done so, I am still unable to make a finding that granting the account was 
irresponsible or that the credit was likely to be unsustainable for her to repay. I say this 
having seen Miss Bs spending in the period leading up to her being accepted for the 
account. The includes her use of gambling sites  although from what Ive seen this 
wasnt to the point that it was having a substantially worsening impact on her overall 
financial situation at the time. 
It follows that I am still unable to say that, had M&S carried out better checks it  would 
have seen her financial situation as deteriorating, or likely to deteriorate, to the extent that 
granting her the credit would have been unfair or unreasonable.
 
I know that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision. But I would like to reassure her that 
I have looked into all the submissions made in this case. Having done so, I have not found 
sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I am not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman