DRN-3556288
The complaint
Miss O has complained about her car insurer Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE). Shes 
unhappy with how it has handled her claim and that it hasnt been settled.
AIE is the insurer for the policy. During the claim Miss O has been dealing with AIEs agents. 
But because this is a complaint about Miss Os claim and AIE is the insurer on her policy, the 
decision can only refer to AIE.
What happened
Miss Os son, who is a named driver on her policy, was involved in a serious incident in late 
April 2021, during which Miss Os car was damaged. The police were involved. Miss O made 
a claim. 
The police recovered the car. AIE had an engineer assess it on 29 April 2021. The engineer 
noted considerable damage to the car. He felt that the cost of repairs would likely outweigh 
the value of the car.
AIE interviewed Miss Os son on 11 May 2021. He described an assault by several 
assailants carrying weapons. He explained that he was injured and the car was damaged. 
AIE decided it needed to see the police report and proceeded to apply for it.
During May 2021, before AIE interviewed Miss Os son, Miss O told it she was unhappy with 
the progress of the claim. When she was told the police report had been applied for she said 
that if this was needed it should have been done straight away. Miss O later said that as the 
attending officers details had been given to AIE, it should just have contacted them.  
AIE issued a final response to Miss O in June 2021. It said it had handled matters in a 
reasonably timely manner and it was entitled to investigate the claim. Miss O made a 
complaint to us.
During the course of our complaint the police told AIE that a signature was needed from 
Miss Os son. AIE sent us details of action it had taken to try and make contact with Miss Os 
son. Its attempts were unsuccessful. AIE also asked Miss O for assistance in getting the 
signature. Our investigator asked Miss O about that. Miss O said it wasnt up to her to do 
AIEs work for it and it should have got anything it needed from her son when it had 
interviewed him. AIE said it was happy for Miss Os concerns in this respect to be 
considered as part of this complaint.
Our investigator felt AIE was entitled to investigate the claim and that obtaining the police 
report was a reasonable course of action in that respect. He also noted that the policy 
required Miss O to co-operate with AIE. He didnt think AIE had caused any delay. So he 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss O was unhappy. She said she didnt feel that her side of things had been taken into 
account. Miss O said shed received an email from AIE that shed clearly been incorrectly 
copied into. She said the email said AIE thought she was lying. Miss O said she hasnt had 
her car back, she doesnt know where it is and the tax is overdue.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint. He explained that the key issue is the claim being 
outstanding. And he said he was still of the view that the enquiries were reasonable and 
necessary and Miss O should cooperate with AIE. Our investigator checked with AIE and 
told Miss O that her car was stored, so she could declare it as off the road for tax purposes. 
He noted a concern Miss O had raised about not being given a courtesy car. In that respect 
he explained that because Miss Os car is being considered as a total loss, she isnt entitled 
to a courtesy car under the policy.
Miss O remained dissatisfied. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been a difficult time for Miss O. With regret for any further 
disappointment this causes her, Im not upholding this complaint. 
AIE, like any insurer, is entitled to make reasonable enquiries into a claim. What that will 
mean in practical terms for any given claim will depend on the circumstances at hand. Here, 
with the serious, criminal nature of the reported incident, I think AIEs decision, both to 
interview Miss Os son and obtain the police report, was reasonable.
In asking for information from the police, AIE cant just call the attending officer. A report has 
to be applied for formally through official channels.
It was AIEs agent who interviewed Miss Os son on AIEs behalf and recommended the 
police report be obtained. But it was for AIE to make the decision whether or not to obtain 
the police report. And once the police told AIE that Miss Os sons signature was needed, 
AIE acted reasonably, in my view, to try and get it. 
I see AIE did try and deal with Miss Os son directly. But it wasnt unreasonable for it to ask 
Miss O for assistance as well. The policy does require her to cooperate with it.
The policy, as do many on the market, offers Miss O the benefit of a courtesy car whilst her 
car is being repaired but explains one isnt offered when a car is considered a total loss. 
Given the engineers report it seems likely the car wont be repaired. And it is currently the 
case that, as the claim hasnt yet progressed, the car is not being repaired. So I think AIE 
hasnt failed Miss O by not offering her a courtesy car.
I understand that Miss O may not have fully understood where exactly AIE was keeping her 
car. But it did tell her in its final response that it felt it would be a total loss. I think it was clear 
that AIE had her car. And she was also told the claim wouldnt progress until the police 
report had been received. I appreciate this was a difficult situation for Miss O to be in. But, 
even taking that into account, it was always her responsibility, as the cars owner, to ensure 
it was either taxed or declared off the road. I dont think AIE prevented her from doing that.
It was unfortunate that AIE copied Miss O into an email that was meant for internal 
consideration only. I appreciate it was upsetting for her to learn that AIE had concerns about 
the claim and that it was going to look into this further. But I think it was reasonable for it to 
want to investigate it and that this would always have been upsetting for Miss O, regardless 
of when or how she found out about it.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Accredited Insurance 
(Europe) Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman