DRN-1990474
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) carried out an incomplete repair on 
his boiler and then withdrew cover.
What happened
Mr P had HomeCare central heating, plumbing and electrical cover with BG. His new cover 
included a first repair visit, during which BG would repair the boiler and then determine 
whether it was able to provide ongoing cover. BG attended, repaired a leak, and confirmed 
cover. 
Mr P reported a further fault with his boiler, but BG told him he wasnt covered. BG had 
withdrawn cover, but Mr P says it didnt tell him. BG says it sent a letter letting him know. As 
a gesture of goodwill, BG sent an engineer to inspect the problem. BG completed a repair, 
but BG refused to attend when Mr P later reported that the boiler wasnt working at all. It 
explained that it had made a mistake in offering cover in the first place because of the age 
and limited parts availability for his 30-year old boiler.
Feeling he had no choice, Mr P bought a new boiler. BG then offered to reinstate cover 
which he said he no longer needed. BG sent a cheque to Mr P, refunding the payment he 
had made for the cover, but he didnt accept it resolved his complaint. He thought BG should 
pay the cost of his replacement boiler because his old boiler had been working until BG 
completed a repair.
Our investigator partly upheld Mr Ps complaint. She thought that BG had made a mistake by 
offering cover and that there had been shortfalls in its customer service. In recognition of that 
she thought BG should pay Mr P £50.  And our investigator explained that by returning Mr 
Ps payment, BG had put him back in the position he was in before he took out the cover, 
which she thought was reasonable. But, given the age of the original boiler, she didnt 
uphold Mr Ps complaint that BG refused to pay the cost.
Neither BG nor Mr P agreed. BG didnt think it needed to pay compensation beyond that 
already offered. Mr P didnt think he wouldve needed to replace his boiler. He said if BG had 
attended to complete a second repair instead of refusing, it may well have remained in good 
working order for years. Therefore, he thinks he only had to pay for a new boiler because of 
BGs actions.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partly uphold Mr Ps complaint for broadly similar reasons to our investigator. 
Ill explain.
Mr P has provided a lot of information, addressing each point mentioned. Id like to reassure 
him that Ive looked at all the information, but I dont intend to address each and every point. 
Instead, I will look at the complaint as a whole and address the key issues. 
Cover
The issue here is that BG offered boiler cover to Mr P and later withdrew it. Because Mr P 
wasnt aware the cover had been withdrawn, he reasonably expected BG to carry out 
repairs. So, Ive looked at the terms of the policy to identify the circumstances under which 
BG can cancel.
We can cancel your agreement or product if:
Your boiler or appliance isnt on our approved list
We cant find the parts we need to repair your boiler, appliance or system, despite 
our attempts. 
If we cancel your agreement or product at your first service, well refund you in full, unless 
weve completed any work since you bought your agreement or product in which case you 
may have to pay cancellation charges.
Where you have Boiler and Controls Breakdown Cover or Central Heating Breakdown 
Cover; and
We cant get hold of the parts we need to fix your boiler and controls or central 
heating
And, we havent told you before that we may not be able to find them,
well refund any money you have paid for these products since your last claim.
Mr P said he was aware that the first visit was to determine whether BG would provide 
cover, so Ive looked at the information he submitted from that first visit, including the 
engineers checklist. Mr P correctly reported that BG ticked the box to say it could provide 
cover. Other relevant information on the first visit checklist is that cover would not be 
provided for domestic hot and cold pipework; the boiler was in poor condition; restricted 
boiler spares, and a replacement boiler was recommended. The level of cover offered was 
left blank.
So, based on this evidence, I think it was reasonable for Mr P to think he had cover, but I 
think there were enough comments on the checklist to indicate that cover for his boiler would 
be problematic. That said, I think BG shouldve clearly indicated that on the checklist. 
I then looked at the cover letters BG sent to Mr P. The first shows the cost breakdown, 
including boiler cover and the one-off fee for the first visit. The second letter, sent after the 
engineer visit, shows that the boiler cover has been removed. However, BG didnt 
specifically draw Mr Ps attention to the change in cover.
Overall, I think it was reasonable for BG to cancel the boiler cover in line with the terms of 
the policy because of the restriction on spare parts and the poor condition of the boiler. It 
should be noted that BG also refunded the first fee, despite having done repair work. But I 
think it couldve done more to make sure Mr P was aware of the change in cover. Mr P 
doesnt think £50 is enough to compensate him for this issue and BG thinks its too much. 
However, BG had enough opportunities to make it clear to Mr P that his boiler wasnt 
included in cover. I think the sum is fair.
LossHaving decided that it was reasonable for BG to downgrade the cover, I must consider 
whether Mr P has lost out because of its failure to tell him from the start that his boiler wasnt 
covered. 
If BG had refused cover after the initial leak repair, Mr P would have had a 30-year old 
working boiler but no cover for any other faults. A matter of days after BGs visit, Mr P 
reported another fault. If BG had told him it wouldnt cover the boiler, I assume Mr P wouldnt 
have reported the new fault to it. So he wouldve had to find an engineer and pay the callout 
and repair costs. But Mr P has already said he couldnt find anyone who would work on his 
boiler before he asked for cover with BG.
At this point, although not covered, BG completed a repair as a gesture of goodwill. The 
repair was only lasted temporarily but it refused to attend again. So, Mr P replaced his boiler. 
The issue here is that Mr P thinks BG should pay for the new boiler because he had a 
functioning boiler before it carried out the repair. I dont agree. BG carried out a repair 
because he reported a fault. However minor the fault, he said he couldnt find anyone else to 
work on it. So it seems to me that Mr P had reached the stage where he wouldve needed to 
replace his boiler anyway because it was too old for lasting repairs. 
In summary, Mr P had a 30-year old, leaking boiler which BG refused to provide cover for 
after fixing the leak. It developed further faults which BG wouldnt cover and he bought a 
replacement boiler. While BG made mistakes, they were simple customer service shortfalls. I 
think its apparent that Mr Ps boiler had reached the end of its economic life and he 
wouldve needed to replace it anyway, so I dont think its reasonable to ask BG to cover the 
cost. However, I do think its fair for BG to pay £50, in addition to the £99 it has already paid, 
by way of apology for the service shortfalls.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr P £50 by way of apology for the service shortfalls, including the failure to fully 
explain that it was removing boiler cover from his policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman