DRN-3995987
The complaint
Mr A has complained that The Co-operative Bank Plc were unnecessarily obstructive when 
he used phone banking to try and make a transfer from his bank account and that it treated 
him unfairly when he went into a branch later the same day.
What happened
On 10 March 2022 Mr A rang Co-op to make a bank transfer of £300 to a friend. As Mr A 
had not transferred money to this friend before, it needed to be set up as a new payee. Mr A 
was then told that the timeframe for the payment to go through was the end of business the 
next working day. Mr A wanted the transfer to be done immediately but was told it was not 
possible. He then went to a branch and believes that the manager was racist towards him. 
Co-op said it couldnt stop the payment unless Mr A confirmed that he was the victim of 
fraud and that it was a scam payment. The payment was eventually cancelled on 15 March 
2022 and the funds returned to his account.
Our investigator thought that Co-op had acted reasonably, both over the phone and in the 
branch.  Mr A disagrees with the investigators view and so the complaint has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the call in which Mr A is setting up the payment. Because a new payee 
needed to be set up, Mr A is asked some additional security questions, which he answers in 
full. The adviser then says that, once she presses the button to set up the payment, it will 
either be immediate or by close of the next working day. Mr A says he would preferably like it 
for today. The adviser says she understands that is his preference but she cant guarantee it. 
She repeats that it will either be immediate or by close of business the next working day and 
asks Mr A if that is alright. He answers ok then. 
The adviser then processes the payment and confirms that the outcome is that the timescale 
is the end of the next working day. She then explains that the payment is still going though a 
security process and that he may get an automated call or text which he would need to 
respond to, to confirm that the payment is genuine.
This is the point at which Mr A becomes unhappy and asks if all of that can be avoided by 
using another method to make the transfer immediately. When he is told there was nothing 
that could be done, he raises his voice and starts speaking over the adviser.
I appreciate that Mr A feels that the extra level of security which delayed the payment was 
tedious and illogical. However, Co-op has a duty to protect its customers from fraud. It would 
be hoped that, having previously been a victim of fraud, Mr A would understand the need for 
caution. Our investigator has explained how Co-op is entitled to carry out additional fraud 
checks under the terms and conditions of the account.
The adviser was very clear that the payment might not go through until the end of the 
following day, so Mr A had advance warning of that. And, listening to the call, he appears to 
have understood that and agreed to it. Also, although Mr A has said that the adviser was 
rude to him, Im satisfied that she was not. She acted professionally throughout the call, 
even when Mr A became angry. So Im unable to conclude that Co-op acted unreasonably in 
setting the payment timescale for the end of the next working day.
During the initial phone call Mr A said that he didnt want to cancel the transfer. However, he 
later did wish to cancel it and said that he would withdraw the cash from a branch instead. 
During another phone call with the fraud department on the same day, Mr A was asked 
some additional security questions but failed to fully answer them. In particular, he would not 
explain why there was an urgency in requiring the funds immediately. Had he chosen to 
answer the questions, the payment would have been released at that time.
Based on the available evidence, Im satisfied that only the fraud team can cancel a 
payment. But the fraud team would only have cancelled the transfer if Mr A had confirmed 
that he was being scammed into making the payment. If someone attempts to get around 
the fraud checks and tries to insist on the transfer being made immediately, and then tries to 
cancel a payment so they can withdraw cash instead, that might be indicative of someone 
being scammed. So, whether he intended it or not, Mr As behaviour would have led to Co-
op having more concerns about the transaction.
I understand Mr As view that its his money to do with as he likes and so he shouldnt have 
to answer what he considers to be intrusive questions. But it is reasonable of Co-op to take 
extra measures to try and protect its customers money and prevent fraud. So, overall, I find 
no fault on the part of Co-op that it was unable to release the payment or cancel the transfer 
at that time. 
Mr A says that the branch manager was rude to him and treated him unfairly due to the 
colour of his skin. Our investigator asked Mr A for more details of what had happened in the 
branch and why he felt that he had been racially discriminated again. However, Mr A didnt 
respond to this request. Ive listened to the phone call that Mr A had with the fraud team 
shortly after leaving the branch. He says that the branch manager said that he was holding 
up the queue, which he thought was a weird statement.
Co-ops version of events differs slightly from Mr As. It says that he was raising his voice at 
the cashier and so the manager went out to ask him to calm down. It agrees that he was 
asked to come away as he was holding up the counter position. Given the situation and how 
strongly Mr A felt about it, its easy to understand how he and the staff in the branch came 
into conflict. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr A has said but, overall, I havent seen any evidence 
to persuade me that Mr A was discriminated against. Based on the available evidence, Im 
unable to conclude that Mr A was dealt with unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2023. 
Carole ClarkOmbudsman