DRN-1791701
 
The complaint
 AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the complaint even though it didnt 
actually sell the insurance complained about. To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to AXA in 
my decision.
Miss S says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In January 1996 Miss S took out a store card  without PPI. In September 1998, PPI was 
added to her account following a telephone call.
The policy protected Miss Ss store card monthly repayments if she couldnt work. The policy 
also provided some other cover as well but Im concentrating in my decision on the PPI part 
of the policy.
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough information to uphold this complaint. She relied 
on the fact that the policy didn't cover accident and sickness claims if they resulted from 
health problems Miss S already had when the policy started. And Miss S had mentioned 
having a health condition at the time - so if she needed to claim for this, she wouldn't have 
been able to. 
Our adjudicator said it was important that Miss S had understood this so she could make a 
fair choice about taking out the PPI. But our adjudicator didn't think that AXA did enough to 
make this policy restriction clear to Miss S - and if it had, then our adjudicator didn't think 
Miss S would've taken the policy out. 
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
It mainly said that Miss S had not provided enough information about how her medical 
condition affected her ability to work. It said the condition shed mentioned was often 
manageable with prescribed medication. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said :
Based on all the information I've seen and been told up to now, I dont plan to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Miss S to remember exactly what mightve happened so 
many years ago. So its unsurprising, and completely understandable, that Miss S told us 
she didn't recall a phone call when PPI was mentioned. But what she says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint. Where theres only limited information 
I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely.
AXA hasnt been able to provide a call recording or a copy of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont know exactly what was said to Miss S when the policy was sold. But based on 
what this service knows about the sales process, and given that PPI was added some years 
after shed taken out her store card, I think Miss S wouldve understood the policy was 
optional. On balance, I think its more likely Miss S felt that PPI was of some value to her and 
she wanted the benefits it offered. So she chose to take it out.  
I dont think AXA advised Miss S to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Miss S with clear information 
about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
Its possible some information AXA gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Miss S wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Miss S was eligible for the policy. Ive taken into account that Miss Ss employer wouldve 
paid her between 3 and 6 months sick pay. But the PPI provided better protection than she 
couldve relied on getting through her employer. The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit 
for as long as Miss S was off work sick  it could've cleared her card balance if she wasn't 
well enough to go back to work. 
And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Miss S with a useful benefit at a difficult 
time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some extra costs as a result of being 
sick or disabled. 
The policy also provided cover if Miss S lost her job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Miss S hasnt given us any information about any other ways she couldve made the monthly 
repayments on her store card if she wasnt able to work. So I think Miss S couldve 
benefitted from having PPI.
 There were some things the policy didnt cover. Looking at the likely policy document that 
wouldve been in use when Miss S took out the PPI, I can see that Miss S wouldnt have 
been covered for absence from work caused by a medical condition she knew about in the 
12 months before the PPI start date. 
Shes told us that she was diagnosed with a medical condition some years earlier and this 
led to her taking five days off work.
The policy paid out after 30 continuous days off work. So it looks like, prior to taking out this 
policy, Miss Ss medical condition hadnt ever led to her having to take anywhere near that 
long off work. This means that when she took out the PPI, Miss S wouldnt have had any 
reason to think she would be likely to make a claim on the policy for absence due to her 
medical condition.
So I dont think having better information about the policys limitations and exclusions for an 
existing medical condition wouldve put Miss S off taking it out. Ive not seen enough so far to 
suggest that at the time she took out the PPI Miss S had any reason to think shed likely be 
off work sick as a result of her existing medical condition for long enough to want to make a 
claim under the policy. So I cant fairly say that shes lost out as a result of paying for the 
policy. And as far as I can see, it doesnt look like Miss S was affected by any of the other terms 
that mightve limited the policys benefit to her. So, even if these werent mentioned clearly, 
or at all, I dont think that knowing more about these policy details wouldve made any 
difference to Miss Ss decision to take it out. 
I dont know if AXA explained the cost of the policy clearly enough for Miss S to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Miss S had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful. Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Miss S  and she took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems she wanted it 
at the time. As she paid for the policy monthly, she couldve cancelled it without further cost 
at any time if her circumstances changed or she no longer wanted to pay for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Miss S, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance, I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
This means, as things stand, Im not currently planning to tell AXA that it needs to do 
anything to put things right. I appreciate that what I've said is going to disappoint Miss S and 
Im sorry to do that  but I hope that setting things out as I've done helps explain the reasons 
why Ive come to this view. 
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Neither party has made any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair not to uphold 
this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman