DRN-4455026
The complaint
Mr S complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited trading as Link Financial declined his 
request to write off an outstanding debt. 
What happened
Mr S took out a loan with a business Ill call F in October 2018. The loan was later closed at 
default by F in February 2020. In March 2023, Link Financial acquired the loan balance of 
£24,564.13 in Mr S name and contacted him to discuss repayment. 
Mr S has spoken with Link Financial on several occasions and explained that he suffers with 
serious health conditions that mean hes unable to work and is in receipt of benefits. Mr S 
asked Link Financial to consider writing off the outstanding balance on the basis hes 
unlikely to be in a position to repay it in the future. 
Link Financial says it considered Mr S requests, including the medical evidence he supplied 
in support. Link Financial explains it had looked at Mr S finances and found he wasnt able 
to afford to make repayments so agreed to place a six month hold on collections activity. 
Link Financial says it considered Mr S request to write off the outstanding balance but 
declined. 
Mr S complained and Link Financial sent him a final response on 29 September 2023. Link 
Financial said it had considered Mr S request but declined it at that time. Link added that it 
wanted to complete an up to date income and expenditure assessment to get a better 
understanding of Mr S financial position and provided guidance about how to submit the 
information online. Link Financial also provided details of organisations if felt may be able to 
offer support to Mr S. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint. They didnt think Link Financial had 
acted unfairly by declining Mr S write off request. Mr S asked to appeal, so his complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
I understand Mr S is suffering with serious health problems that have come about in recent 
years. Mr S has explained that the state of his health means hes unable to work and is 
unlikely to be able to do so again in the future. Id expect a business to take information 
about a customers health into account when deciding whether theyre realistically able to 
make repayments in the future. Link Financial has forwarded a copy of the consultants letter 
Mr S sent it, setting out details of his health condition and how it impacts him. 
I can see that Link Financial considered the information provided by Mr S consultant when 
he asked it to write off the outstanding balance. But I think its fair to note that whilst Mr S 
has told us he wont be able to work again in the future, thats not something the letter hes 
forwarded confirms. 
I note that Link Financial was willing to work with Mr S and agreed to place his account on a 
six month hold based on the information he supplied. Im satisfied that was fair in light of 
what Mr S said about his circumstances and health. More recently, Link Financial has asked 
Mr S to complete an up to date income and expenditure assessment to see whether 
repayments are affordable or if other types of support are available. Im satisfied Link 
Financial has treated Mr S positively and sympathetically as its obliged to do. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied Link Financial fairly considered his write 
off request before declining it Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman