DRN-4174823
The complaint
Mr D complains that Wakam didnt pay claims on his pet insurance policy as they were 
below the policy excess.
Where I refer to Wakam, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr D has a pet insurance policy, which he last renewed in March 2023. Shortly after 
renewing the policy he made two claims for £40 each.
Wakam said the claims would not be paid as they were less than the policy excess he had to 
pay. Mr D has complained about this  he says theres only one excess payable per year, 
and the policy terms dont specify that he has to pay this excess in one hit or that claims 
lower than the excess value do not contribute towards his annual excess total. And he says 
this is unfair as it effectively increased his excess by £80.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said for a claim to be paid it 
would need to be for an amount greater than the policy excess and if there was nothing left 
to pay after Mr D had paid the excess, then there was no claim to make on the policy.
Mr D disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision. So the complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
There was some confusion in this case about which policy terms applied, with different 
versions being provided to Mr D. It seems the wrong terms were sent to him at renewal. He  
explained to our investigator the confusion this caused and said he shouldnt have to 
compare different versions to check which is correct. 
Before making my decision I explained to both parties that I was minded to award a 
compensation payment of £100 in respect of this. 
Wakam has said it is happy to pay compensation of £100 as a one-off payment; it wouldnt 
expect any further complaint from him about this issue. Mr D hasnt provided any further 
comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a claim is made, an excess is due from the policyholder. The policy doesnt define 
what an excess is. But its commonly accepted that the policyholder will normally have to 
pay the first part of any claim and the amount they pay in the event of a successful claim is 
known as the excess.
Mr D says it isnt made clear that claims below the excess wont be accepted. He says if the 
excess is paid per year, claims should be accumulated towards the annual excess.
The policy covers new and recurring conditions with a limit of £15,000 that can be claimed 
each year. That limit is reset each year when the policy is renewed. The policy terms also 
set out the excess per year.
Mr D made two claims which were both for less than the excess. That means there simply 
wasnt anything for Wakam to pay out. For the claim to be successful it would need to be for 
an amount greater than the policy excess. If theres nothing left to pay after Mr D has paid 
the excess then there isnt a successful claim on the policy.
So I dont think it was unreasonable for Wakam to decline the claims because they were 
below the excess limit. And if the claims were declined, it was reasonable for Wakam to 
disregard them when determining if the annual excess limit had been used. Theres nothing 
in the policy terms that requires Wakam to add claims together until the excess has been 
reached.
The excess is only paid once per year. Mr Ds policy renewed in March. I understand he has 
more recently made another claim at a higher value which was settled and the excess was 
deducted from that claim. So he wont need to pay his excess again for the remainder of this 
policy year. 
For these reasons Im satisfied the way Wakam dealt with the claims was in line with the 
policy terms and was fair. But as set out above, I consider Mr D was caused unnecessary 
distress and confusion when he was given incorrect versions of the policy wording. While 
things have now been clarified for him, its fair that he should be compensated for the 
distress that was caused to him on this occasion.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Wakam to pay compensation of £100 to Mr D for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman