DRN-1707988
 
The complaint
S, a limited company, complains that Bank of Scotland plc wrongly returned a cheque 
resulting in financial loss.
What happened
S wrote a cheque for £330 on 7 July 2019 to a supplier for an important replacement part. 
On 15 July 2019 the cheque was returned unpaid with the message Advice of drawing 
required. S said that it had not been told about any problem and when it first contacted 
Bank of Scotland it said that the recipients bank had returned the cheque. That was not 
correct and S found out that this had been due to a failed security check. It says that as it did 
not get the part it lost a weekends takings of some £6,000 and a net profit of £2,500 and 
had 19 upset clients. Bank of Scotland offered it £100 in compensation for providing 
inconsistent information.
Our investigator recommended that Bank of Scotland pay S a total of £250 and it agreed to 
do so. She said that there was no evidence that Bank of Scotland had tried to contact S 
about the cheque. But that shed have thought S would have a contingency arrangement for 
an important spare part. So she did not recommend that it compensate S for its losses but 
said that further compensation for inconvenience was appropriate.
S did not agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. It said that it was impracticable to 
hold all spare parts as there are potentially 1,000. The supplier would not send the part until 
it had been paid. The compensation means that Bank of Scotland is only ten per cent 
responsible for the loss of net profit and it had made the mistake. It had a queue of clients for 
future bookings and so could never make up what it had lost that weekend. It would accept 
compensation of £1,500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland returned this cheque for security reasons. Thats a matter for it to decide 
on because its responsible if a fraudulent cheque is paid. I wont be disclosing the nature of 
its checks but I accept it had a legitimate concern about this cheque. It says it adopted a 
best endeavours approach to try to contact S about this to see if the cheque was genuine. 
But there is no guarantee it would be able to do so especially as there is a limited time in 
which to return a cheque. Here it accepts that it cant even show it tried to contact the 
directors. And when they did instead contact Bank of Scotland there was conflicting 
information about why it was returned.
It was a matter for S to decide whether or not to hold spare parts and how to order and pay 
for a replacement. S says it posted the cheque first class post on Sunday 7 July 2019. It was 
returned unpaid on Monday 15 July 2019. Given the uncertain time for the supplier to receive and then pay in the cheque and then the period required for a cheque to clear and 
then for the supplier to send out a part it didnt seem that there was ever any chance of S 
operating on the prior weekend. Or any guarantee of exactly when S could have got that 
part. There is reference to S making a complaint about the cheque not being paid on Friday 
19 July 2019. My understanding is that it is then referring to losses for the upcoming 
weekend. 
I dont think that its reasonable to expect Bank of Scotland to accept any consequential 
losses of this cheque being returned. I dont think it could have foreseen the impact and the 
cheque was returned in good faith. The loss claimed here is significant in relation to the 
cheque itself and I think its reasonable for Bank of Scotland to expect S to do what it was 
able to in order to mitigate the risk of such a loss.
Putting things right
Im sorry to hear that S lost money. But for the reasons Ive given I wont be holding Bank of 
Scotland responsible for that. It did though cause inconvenience for S and the need for it to 
take mitigating actions. I agree that the amount of compensation now recommended for that 
is reasonable. I know S will be disappointed by my conclusions here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Bank of Scotland plc to pay S 
a total of £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman