DRN-3786965
The complaint
Ms Rs unhappy with how AXA Insurance UK Plc handled her claim made on a car 
insurance policy.
What happened
In response to Ms Rs claim with AXA following a road traffic accident, it arranged for an 
engineers report of the damage to her car and likely cost of repair. After doing so, AXA 
considered her car to be a total loss and it was written-off. It settled what remained of the car 
finance and made a final payment to her, with these figures totalling £15,820 (after excess).
Unhappy that she hadnt been consulted before the car was sold at auction or given the 
chance to retain it despite the damage sustained, Ms R complained to AXA. AXA maintained 
that it had acted fairly in finding that the car was a total loss. But it agreed that it didnt 
consider Ms Rs views during the process or give her the option of keeping the car. It 
apologised for that and offered her £500 as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it had caused her. 
Ms R remained unhappy and referred a complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They felt AXA had acted reasonably in 
valuing the car and writing it off, and that its compensatory offer of £500 for its errors was fair 
in the circumstances.
Ms R didnt accept the investigators findings, so the complaint was passed to me to review 
afresh. In summary, Ms R remained of the view that she should have been given the option 
of retaining the car. She also said she was advised by AXAs engineer to complete 
paperwork to the effect that the car had been sold despite it being written off. She believed 
she was due £5,000 as opposed to the £500 AXA had offered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
Total loss and what that means
The policy terms say that if the insured cars deemed a total loss  that is, beyond economic 
repair  and its subject to a hire purchase or leasing agreement, AXA will make payment to 
the owner confirmed in the agreement. If AXAs estimate of the market values more than is 
owed on finance, it will pay the balance to the insured. AXA will take ownership of the car 
and no courtesy car will be provided.
The policy defines market value as the cost of replacing the car in the UK with one of the 
same make, model, specification, mileage, age and condition. AXA says it calculated Ms Rs 
cars market value based on the car itself and on research from certain motor trade guides. 
In this case, our investigator also obtained valuations from several widely recognised motor 
trade guides. From what Ive seen, AXAs valuation of Ms Rs car of £16,520 is fair.
Determining what constitutes a total loss
Following the accident, AXA arranged for the car to be inspected by a third-party engineer. 
According to their report, the impact had affected the front of the car causing damage to the 
radiators, power steering cooler, lamps, grille, bumper, bonnet, chassis ends and left wing 
among other things. The airbags had deployed and structural damage had been caused. 
The engineer referenced salvage category S in their report, meaning it was possible to 
repair despite the structural damage caused. They estimated the repairs would cost more 
than £13,000.
Based on the engineers report I think AXA acted within the policy terms in writing off Ms Rs 
car. I say that because Im satisfied AXA instructed a qualified engineer to inspect and report 
on the car and then acted reasonably on their findings. Although it was possible to repair the 
car, Im satisfied that the cost of repair was so great, compared with the value of the car, that 
the option of repairing it became uneconomical.
Im aware that Ms R believed that the damage sustained was such that the car shouldnt 
have been written-off. She said the police officers that attended the incident also believed 
that to be the case. However, I havent seen anything to confirm that was their opinion or to 
suggest that those individuals were aware of the full extent of the damage done. Nor have I 
seen that they had any reliable knowledge of the potential cost of repairs as the engineer 
did. Im not willing to place emphasis on their views ahead of those of the engineer.
Ms R says she was mis-advised by the engineer as to how to record the transfer of the car 
with the relevant licensing agency. She believes this was because the engineer and/or AXA 
simply wanted to sell the car on for a profit. But thats a serious allegation and I havent seen 
anything to support what shes said about that. In any case, the engineer wasnt 
representing AXA so I dont think I could hold the latter responsible for that even if it did 
happen. 
Poor customer service and the impact on Ms R
  
Its not in dispute that AXA didnt deal with all aspects of Ms Rs claim as well as it should 
have. For example, it accepts it didnt seek her views as to what should happen to the car 
following the engineers report. And it didnt give her the option of retaining the car despite 
the damage. 
Its difficult to know what would have happened had AXA given Ms R that option. Its 
possible shed have agreed for it to be disposed of as it was. She argues otherwise and says 
shed have kept it as the car was her pride and joy and she viewed the damage as just 
minor. 
Either way, I believe AXAs actions denied Ms R the opportunity to make the decision for 
herself. By the time she found out what had happened, it was too late for her to do much 
about it even if she wanted to. 
Distress and inconvenience is, by its very nature, a subjective issue to assess. Having said 
that, Ive taken account of what Ms Rs said about the car and how strongly she felt about it. 
Ive also considered this services general approach to compensation for non-financial loss 
and the size of awards we typically make.With all of that in mind, I believe AXAs offer of £500 is fair in the circumstances given the 
shock and distress the news of the disposal of the car must have caused Ms R. Im not 
satisfied that a higher award, and certainly not one of around £5,000 as suggested by Ms R, 
is warranted in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman