DRN-4403580
The complaint
Mrs B complains to Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SFL) about a car it supplied her on 
finance.
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties so I wont repeat those in detail here  
instead I will summarise and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Mrs B took out a hire purchase agreement with SFL. However, she is unhappy with the 
quality of the car and complained to SFL about it. 
SFL acknowledged that there was an issue with the car leaking exhaust fumes into the main 
cabin and told Mrs B that the dealer would repair it if she took it in. It also offered her £200 
compensation for the delay in coming to a resolution.
Mrs B was unhappy with the response and her complaint came to this service. Our 
investigator upheld the complaint and proposed a repair as a way forward along with some 
additional compensation.
Mrs B wants to reject the car instead so the matter was passed to me as ombudsman to 
make a decision.
I wrote to the parties and proposed an alteration to the investigators view  I said it 
appeared that rejection was a reasonable way forward instead of a repair.  Neither party has 
responded and my initial thoughts remain the same. I think both parties have had a 
reasonable opportunity to put forward submissions in respect of this complaint and my 
proposal so I am now moving to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service resolves disputes informally  so I wont be commenting on everything said by 
the parties  only what I consider to be relevant.
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. SFL is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is of particular relevance to this complaint. It says that under 
a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of goods are satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into 
account might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles 
history.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom 
from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of goods.
SFL supplied Mrs B with a second-hand car. Here I note the car had travelled around 92,000  
miles and was about 11 years old at the point of supply.  So it is fair to say that the 
reasonable person would accept that it is likely to require notably more repairs and 
maintenance than a newer, less road worn car. The price agreed was around £7,000 which 
would be much less than the new price but is still not an exceptionally low amount of money 
for a car.
I note that Mrs B (through her representative) has pointed out that many things need 
repairing on the car since it was supplied toward the end of July 2022. From what I can see 
the majority of these issues came to light in an inspection carried out around two months 
after the car was supplied.
It is worth noting that this is an old and high mileage vehicle so it will be reasonably expected 
that parts will be worn and many of the issues identified (such as brake pads) might 
reasonably require replacement in a short space of time after sale. There is a higher degree 
of acceptable risk that things will need maintenance here. However, one of the key things 
that has been identified at an early stage is that the car is leaking exhaust fumes into the 
cabin. Because I am upholding the complaint and directing rejection of the vehicle based on 
this factor I dont consider it necessary to go into detail about the other issues with the car 
and whether these are likely down to reasonably expected wear and tear or otherwise.
Although the car is old and high mileage it has to be sold in a safe condition. Safety is one of 
the factors to consider when determining if goods are of satisfactory quality under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015. There would appear to be no dispute here that leaking exhaust 
fumes into the cabin poses a significant safety concern here. So if I were satisfied that the 
car was sold in a state where it was leaking exhaust fumes into the cabin I would fairly say 
that despite its age it would not be of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Although it is always going to be difficult to determine if the car was definitely leaking 
exhaust fumes into the cabin at the point of sale I only need to decide if it is more likely than 
not. Here I think it is. I say this primarily because
the report that identified the issue was carried out relatively shortly after purchase; 
and
the follow up expert inspection commissioned by SFL (while unclear on the way 
forward to remedy the issue- which I will come on to) appeared to accept that the 
issue had come about as a result of a problem that was likely present at the date of 
supply.
Furthermore, while the car had travelled apparently in excess of 1,000 miles before the 
detailed diagnostic revealed the issue with the fumes leaking I note that there is also no 
suggestion by the expert or persuasive evidence to show otherwise, that since Mrs B has 
been in possession of the car it has been misused or involved in an accident that would 
likely have caused the issues which appear to be linked to the exhaust leak into the cabin. 
Furthermore SFL has not provided persuasive evidence that this is an issue that would have 
been picked up pre-sale such as through the MOT or otherwise. Overall, SFL has not shown 
persuasively that this was an issue that was not in fact present at the point of sale  and considering when said issue was first identified I dont consider it unreasonable to expect 
this from SFL. In the circumstances here I think overall the issue is more likely than not to 
have been present at the point of sale.
It follows, that despite the age and mileage of the car it was sold with an apparently 
significant safety concern  therefore, I consider that the issue with the exhaust fumes 
leaking into the cabin in particular renders the car of unsatisfactory quality.
The question here is a fair way to put things right. I note SFL has pointed out that it offered a 
return to the dealer to repair and remedy the issue. It appears Mrs Bs reluctance to accept 
this was because she didnt trust the dealer. However, for me there is a deeper issue with 
carrying out a repair here. I have written to both parties about this and indicated that I think it 
would be fair for SFL to take the car back as a result.
I note that the repair option outlined in the expert report focused on clearing the DPF filter to 
resolve the issue. However, I have concerns about whether this is going to actually remedy 
the issue or if there are wider matters to take into account.
I note that the expert report commissioned by SFL mentions a crack to the engine within the 
exhaust or intake and the engine bay being heavily coated with soot from a leak. It also 
mentions a whooshing noise indicative of an exhaust or boost leak on the engine. However, 
apart from a photo of the sooting the report doesnt go on to say much more about this or 
conclusively rule it out as a cause of the fumes leaking into the cabin. It goes on to conclude 
that the exhaust gases entering the passenger compartment are characteristic of a blockage 
of the DPF.
As there appears a suggestion that the engine is leaking and no explanation as to why the 
DPF repair has been put forward as the resolution I am not persuaded the cause of the leak 
has been conclusively identified. 
In considering the remedies under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 I note that (discounting 
the 30 day short term right to reject here) repair or replacement become the next remedies 
available to the consumer where goods are of unsatisfactory quality. A replacement is clearly 
not practical here and I am not persuaded that a repair is a fair and reasonable way forward 
either.
I know this is an old and high mileage car  but it needs to be sold in a safe condition and if 
a potentially significant safety concern is identified I dont consider it unreasonable for a clear 
pathway and rationale for a fix to have been produced by SFL.
Further expert investigations will likely cause more inconvenience to the consumer so I think 
now that rejection is a reasonable way forward. Particularly as SFL has not got back to this 
service to explain persuasively why it isnt a reasonable way forward.
Because (and with the Consumer Rights Act 2015 in mind) I think rejection is a reasonable 
way forward SFL will have to collect the car at no cost to Mrs B and end the finance 
agreement. I dont believe there is a deposit to refund here but if there is one this should 
come back to Mrs B. 
Mrs B has indicated she had to get another car to use due to the concerns about this one. 
With this in mind I think if there is adverse credit data on her file from this agreement due to 
non-payment it should fairly be removed.
I dont think it fair that Mrs B pay for the period she stopped using the car. However, she 
needs to pay for the use she did have. From what I can see the car was used for at least 3,500 miles between supply and up until the independent report commissioned by SFL in 
November 2022. After that it isnt clear to me what the use has been. Mrs Bs representative 
has indicated the car didnt have a lot of use  and is now off road as the last MOT was not 
renewed in July 2023. 
I am satisfied that the car has not been used from July 2023. Mrs B has had an opportunity 
to show it wasnt used prior to this by showing the current mileage. I dont have this 
information so in absence of that (and noting this is not a science) I think the fairest thing is 
to say that if Mrs B can show SFL the car has not accrued more than 100 miles since the 
independent report in November 2022 (where the OUT mileage was logged as 95,944) then 
SFL should also refund any monthly payments from the period relating to the date following 
the expert report. For me it will fairly show that Mrs B effectively (and reasonably) rejected 
use of the car from that point on. Otherwise SFL will only be required to refund payments 
relating to the period after the MOT expired in July 2023. 
Like our investigator I think it fair for SFL to refund Mrs B the cost of the diagnostic report 
carried out in October 2022 as this identified the issue in respect of the car being not of 
satisfactory quality. I understand the report cost £120 but Mrs B needs to show SFL she 
incurred this cost either directly or paying back the person who laid out for it as I cannot 
award losses to third parties here.
I note Mrs B has mentioned other work on the car and provided information showing a repair 
to a water pipe costing £179.99. I also understand there might have been some costs in 
respect of brake pads. Overall I dont consider it fair and reasonable to refund these costs 
taking into account the use of the car to date and noting that she would likely have had some 
reasonably expected maintenance costs during this time in any event. I also note the costs 
evidenced to date are not so excessive as to be unfair in light of her rejection of the car 
overall.
I note SFL has offered Mrs B £200 for distress and inconvenience due to the time taken to 
look into things and offer a repair option. Mrs Bs representative has described the stress 
caused to her with the issues with the car and I have taken this into account when deciding 
what is fair. I think that SFL (while helpfully commissioning a report) could have done more 
here. And I think £200 is broadly fair considering our scale of awards for distress and 
inconvenience.
It is worth noting the difficulty in deciding fair redress is compounded by the lack of response 
or fuller information from the parties during the investigation. As an informal dispute 
resolution service I am looking to decide a fair way to resolve this dispute in light of the 
information I do have. My findings might not be scientific or completely to the liking of either 
party  however, broadly I think this is a fair way of allowing the parties to move forward.
Mrs B does not have to accept my decision  and it might be that she decides to work with 
SFL on another way forward, such as attempts at repair. However, that is not what I am fairly 
proposing here. It is up to Mrs B as to whether she wants to accept this. 
Putting things right
If Mrs B accepts my decision SFL should put things right as follows.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Specialist Motor Finance Limited to:
Collect the car at no further cost to Mrs B and end the finance agreement refunding any deposit (if any);
Refund Mrs B payments relating to the period of use following the expiry of the MOT 
in July 2023 or (if Mrs B is able to show she stopped using the car in line with my 
decision) from the date of the expert report carried out in November 2022;
Pay Mrs B £120 for the diagnostic report if she is able to show she is out of pocket 
for this;
Pay 8% simple yearly interest on any refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
Pay £200 compensation; and
Remove any adverse information in respect of the agreement from Mrs Bs credit file.
SFL should provide Mrs B with a certificate of tax deduction if it deducts tax from the interest 
element of my award so that she might claim a refund from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman