DRN-1796132
 
Complaint
Mr K and Ms M complain that Skipton Building Society (Skipton)  Scarborough Building 
Society at the time of the sale - mis-sold them a monthly premium mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
To keep things simple, Ive only referred to Skipton during my decision.
Background
Mr K and Ms M were sold a MPPI policy in 2002 during a meeting. 
Although the mortgage was in both Mr K and Ms Ms names, the MPPI policy only covered 
Mr K. The PPI would have provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr K 
became unemployed.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr K and Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. Mr K and Ms M 
didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr K and Ms Ms case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr K and Ms Ms complaint. I appreciate this 
will be disappointing for Mr K and Ms M but I will now explain why.
Skipton had to make it clear to Mr K and Ms M that the MPPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to Mr K and Ms Ms account.  Mr K and Ms M are 
adamant that the policy wasnt presented as optional and that they were pressured into 
taking it out. They say they had no need for MPPI due to their existing repayment means, Mr 
K's job stability and good health but had to take it out as Skipton made it a condition that 
they couldnt get the mortgage without MPPI. Mr K and Ms M say that they could only get the 
type of mortgage they needed through Skipton (allowing for overpayment without penalty) 
and so had no choice. Mr K says as he had to take MPPI, he went for the cheapest option 
which was unemployment cover on its own. Skipton disagree.
Of course I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. So Ive thought about what 
Mr K, Ms M and Skipton have told us and have considered the documents from the time of 
the sale to help me decide what is more likely to have happened during the sale.
In particular, Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form. Within this document there is 
a section for MPPI. Theres nothing in this section which would suggest that the MPPI was 
compulsory and it shows that Mr K chose to take out unemployment cover alone. Mr K and Ms M signed and dated this selection. Mr K then completed a separate MPPI application 
form which again confirm he wanted unemployment cover only. This was a completely 
separate application form to the mortgage application itself. Although I note the reason Mr K 
says he took unemployment cover alone, it is also possible based on what I understand of 
Mr K' s circumstances at the time of the sale that the reason he took this level of cover is 
because he felt he had sufficient provisions in place for accident and sickness with his 
employee sick pay.
So while I appreciate what Mr K and Ms M have told us - and the frustration that this finding 
is likely to cause them -  based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant say that its more likely that 
the policy wasnt presented as optional or that they didnt choose to take it out. Mr K has 
questioned if Skipton and their representative would have benefitted from selling PPI, I dont 
know the answer to this but even if there were incentives involved, I havent seen any 
evidence which would lead me to the conclusion that because of any such incentives, the 
representative on this particular occasion pressured Mr K and Ms M into taking MPPI. 
Although Mr K and Ms Ms main complaint point is that they werent given a choice about 
taking MPPI, as I havent upheld their complaint on this point, I have gone on to consider 
other aspects of the sale to check if there is any other reason that they policy may have 
been mis-sold.
To that end, I have first of all considered whether Mr K was eligible under the policy. Based 
on Mr Ks age and employment (amongst other things) at the time of the sale, Im satisfied 
he was eligible.
Skipton accept they advised Mr K and Ms M to take MPPI. This means they had to check it 
was suitable for them. Mr K and Ms M dont think the policy was suitable for them as they 
say they had no need for it. I dont know if Skipton took all the steps they should have to 
check if the MPPI was suitable for Mr K and Ms M but I do think the policy was suitable for 
them. I say this because:
 
The MPPI would have paid out in addition to any redundancy pay Mr K may have 
been entitled to. I understand what Mr K says about his secure employment. But the 
point of MPPI was to provide protection if the unexpected were to happen. I havent 
been told about how much Mr Ks redundancy pay would have been other than that 
its likely to have been above the statutory minimum. Given the number of years Mr K 
had been employed with the same employer at the time of the sale, I think Mr K may 
well have been entitled to enhanced redundancy pay. But I dont think this would 
have in itself made the policy unsuitable for Mr K and Ms M. This is because the 
MPPI would have paid out alongside the redundancy pay. Any redundancy pay could 
have helped with essential living expenses while the MPPI took care of the mortgage 
repayments. Ms M wasnt working at this time and so they were solely reliant on Mr 
Ks pay to meet an important financial commitment.
 
I understand Mr K and Ms M had savings. However, it appears a large amount of 
these were earmarked to reduce the balance on their existing mortgage. I appreciate 
that Mr K and Ms M had intended to overpay their mortgage with a view to clearing it 
early and did in fact pay their mortgage off early, but the MPPI would have provided a 
valuable benefit if Mr K lost his job before the mortgage was repaid. 
 Mr K doesnt appear to have been affected by the terms in the policy which would 
have made it difficult for him to make a successful claim under the policy.
 
I havent seen any evidence which suggests the MPPI was unaffordable for Mr K and 
Ms M.
 
Mr K and Ms M could have cancelled the MPPI at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted or needed it.
 
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable for Mr K and Ms M, Skipton also had to give 
them clear information about the MPPI  in particular about the costs, benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Skipton gave Mr K and Ms M wasnt as clear as it should have 
been but this in itself doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
So having taken everything into consideration, I dont think Skipton mis-sold Mr K and Ms M 
this MPPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr K and Ms Ms complaint against Skipton Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 June 2020.
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman