DRN-3900122
The complaint
Miss T complains that Advantage Finance Ltd (Advantage Finance) irresponsibly granted 
her a hire purchase she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In February 2020, Miss T acquired a used car financed by a hire purchase agreement  from 
Advantage Finance. Miss T was required to make 47 monthly repayments of £225.78, with a 
final payment of £425.78. The total repayable under the agreement was £11,217.44.
Miss T says that Advantage Finance didnt complete adequate affordability checks and if it 
had it would have found out about her difficult financial situation and seen the agreement 
wasnt affordable. Advantage Finance didnt agree. It said that it carried out a thorough 
assessment which included an income check and affordability assessment. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Advantage Finance 
didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Miss T didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint and make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Advantage Finance will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
The credit check Advantage Finance completed showed that Mrs T didnt have any county 
court judgments entered against her credit record. However, Ive seen that she had previous 
had defaults on credit cards, utility bills and loans. With one exception, these had all 
happened at least 18 months previously, with the most recent, in October 2019, having been 
agreed with the credit provider. I think this ought to have indicated there was a risk that 
Miss T could struggle financially with repaying the credit, especially as it was repayable over 
a four year period. So it therefore would have been proportionate for Advantage Finance to 
have got a more thorough understanding of Miss Ts financial circumstances before lending.
Advantage Finance didnt ask Miss T about her expenditure. Although it did complete a 
credit check, estimating that she had around £450 of disposable income available each 
month, this wont have indicated what her regular living expenses were. Without knowing 
what Miss Ts regular committed expenditure was, Advantage Finance wouldnt have got a 
reasonable understanding of whether the agreement was affordable or not. So even though I 
agree with our adjudicator that it took steps to estimate what Miss Ts daily outgoings were 
likely to be, I think given the length of the loan and what it already knew about Miss Ts 
financial history, it ought to have done more to better verify her financial situation. 
 
One of the ways that Advantage Finance could have verified Miss Ts expenditure was by 
reviewing bank statements. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed three months of 
statements which I think give a good indication of what Advantage Finance would likely have 
found out had it completed proportionate checks. 
Ive seen that Miss Ts average monthly income was £1,513. Having done so, I agree with 
our adjudicator that the statements show that Miss Ts regular committed monthly 
expenditure at the time was averaging out at just over £1,000. In calculating this figure, Ive 
included all basic living expenses as well as Miss Ts regular financial commitments. At the 
time her average monthly income was around £1,500. Taking these figures into account, it 
appears to show the agreement was affordable to Miss T. For this reason, Im not persuaded 
that Advantage Finance acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
I understand that Miss T still has the car but has not made payments on the account since 
October 2021. She currently owes arrears of £3,347.97. I suggest that Miss T takes early 
steps to come to a fair and reasonable arrangement to continue making payments. I also 
expect that Advantage Finance will act with appropriate forbearance and regard for Miss Ts 
current financial circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman