DRN-3393423
The complaint
Mrs F complains that errors made by A J Bell Management Limited (AJB) meant that the 
transfer of some pension savings from another provider to AJB was delayed.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2022. In that decision 
I explained why I thought the complaint should be upheld and what AJB needed to do in 
order to put things right. Both parties have received a copy of the provisional decision but, 
for completeness, I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mrs F held pension savings with AJB. She also held pension savings with another 
firm. In September 2019 Mrs F instructed AJB to request the transfer of 
approximately £330,000 of her pension savings from the other firm to the pension 
plan she held with AJB.
AJB appears to have made a number of errors when requesting that transfer. It 
initially added a note to the transfer request stating that the amount was £33,000, 
and confirmed that request to Mrs Fs financial advisor. When the error was 
identified, AJB cancelled the original transfer request and input a replacement. But 
the other provider sought confirmation from AJB that all was now in order before it 
actioned the request. It took a little time for AJB to respond to that request.
When Mrs F first complained to AJB it didnt think its errors had caused any material 
delays to her transfer. But, whilst we have been considering the complaint, AJB 
accepted responsibility for a delay amounting to approximately eight days. So it 
offered to pay Mrs F compensation based on the fall in the value of the transferred 
amount, and the changes in the prices of the investments she subsequently made 
after the transfer.
AJB has accepted responsibility for the delay in the transfer of Mrs Fs pension 
savings from the other provider. The time period that AJB has suggested for the 
delay appears to me to be reasonable, and a fair reflection of how things might have 
progressed had it not made the initial error in the amount being transferred. Although 
some of the delay might be attributed to the additional confirmation sought by the 
other provider, that was only done in response to the error AJB had made. I agree 
with AJBs assessment of the delay that Mrs F experienced.
So my decision here only needs to consider what AJB should do to put things right.
I think that Mrs F has lost out as a result of the delay in two respects. Before the 
other provider could transfer the pension savings to AJB it needed to sell Mrs Fs 
investments. Had that sale been completed when AJB made its original request, the 
proceeds of the liquidation of the assets would have been greater. The other provider 
has told AJB that the delay meant that the transfer it made was reduced by 
£7,861.11.
And then, if the higher amount had been transferred, it would have been available to 
Mrs F to invest alongside her other pension savings with AJB. Those pension 
savings were held in two ways. A proportion of Mrs Fs pension savings were 
invested using a third-party investment manager. And the remainder appears to have 
been invested directly by Mrs F, in what AJB calls its Funds and Shares Service 
Account. I think it would be reasonable to conclude that if Mrs F had received the 
higher transfer amount she would have invested her additional monies in the same 
way.
And to an extent that is the approach that AJB has taken when assessing the 
compensation that is due to Mrs F. It has looked at what the value of the additional 
transfer amount would now be, had it been invested in the same proportions as the 
transfer it actually received.
But as I explained to AJB, I think its calculations are flawed in two respects;
When looking at Mrs Fs investments AJB appears to have failed to consider 
the monies that she invested into the Funds and Shares Service Account. It 
only seems to have considered the monies that were placed with the 
investment manager.
One of the benefits of using an investment manager is that investments are 
regularly reviewed to take account of changing market conditions. I dont have 
full statements for Mrs Fs accounts, but it seems even in the first month 
following the transfer some changes were made. So simply looking at the 
current value of the investments Mrs F actually made at the time doesnt fairly 
reflect the position shed now be in had the higher amount been transferred.
So, I currently think AJB needs to revise the compensation it is paying to Mrs F to 
more fairly reflect the position shed now been in had the transfer been completed in 
a timely manner.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Mrs F has said she accepts my provisional findings. She has pointed 
out that she holds Fixed Protection 2014 (FP2014) on her lifetime allowance, so asks that it 
is taken into account when the method of compensation is decided. And she has confirmed 
that she is a basic rate taxpayer.
AJB doesnt agree with the method I have proposed for calculating the compensation. It says 
that this Service has long accepted the method of calculation it has used. It says it has never 
been asked to calculate compensation in the way I have suggested. It accepts it is 
responsible for the original delay, but says it didnt cause any delays to subsequent trades 
that Mrs F might have completed. It says including these in any calculation would not be 
rational. AJB says its calculations show that Mrs F was actually £548.42 better off as a result 
of the delay to the investment of her pension savings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I thank Mrs F for her response to my provisional decision, and I will note her fixed protection 
as part of the redress I direct below. I have considered carefully what AJB has said, but its 
comments havent led me to conclude that I should alter the redress methodology I set out in 
my provisional decision. But I would like to comment further on some of the points it has 
raised.
As AJB will be aware, I am required to decide each complaint on its own merits. And in doing 
that I need to ensure that any compensation I direct a business to pay is appropriate, and 
specifically tailored to the actual circumstances of the complaint. I think I can fairly 
summarise what I think the impact of the delay on Mrs Fs investments was by the following;
As a result of the delay (for which AJB accepts responsibility) the amount that was 
transferred from the other pension provider was reduced by £7,861.11. So the 
amount that Mrs F had available to invest was lower than it should have been.
Following the transfer Mrs F made a number of initial investments, both directly and 
through her investment manager. And over the years since the delay took place she 
has made further changes to her investments.
As a result of her investment decisions, Mrs Fs pension savings (both directly 
invested and invested by the third party) have grown in value. It is reasonable to 
assume that the additional amount that would have been transferred had there been 
no delay would have grown at the same rate. So it is those growth rates that fairly 
reflect the investment loss that Mrs F will have suffered.
In calculating the compensation I am not suggesting that AJB needs to examine in detail 
every trade that Mrs F has made. Instead I think it would be reasonable to simply compare 
the total starting value of each tranche of Mrs Fs pension savings (at the date her first 
investments of the transferred funds were made) with their total value at the date of this final 
decision. In assessing those values, AJB should clearly take account of any deposits, or 
withdrawals, that Mrs F might have made to or from her pension savings.
As I said above, Mrs F made her investments both directly and through an investment 
manager. I can see that approximately 84% of the transferred funds were placed with the 
investment manager, and the remainder invested directly by Mrs F. So AJB should use 
those proportions when applying the overall investment returns to the deficit.
I think that what I am proposing above is the correct methodology for AJB to use in order to 
put Mrs F as close as possible to the position she would have been in had no delays taken 
place. Whilst that might be different from what AJB has been asked to do on other 
complaints, I think that the approach I am directing is both fair and reasonable.Putting things right
Had the transfer been completed without any delays Mrs Fs former provider has calculated 
that AJB would have received an additional £7,861.11. That amount should be paid to Mrs F, 
but should be increased, or decreased, in line with the investment returns I set out below.
As I said earlier, Mrs Fs pension savings were invested both by an investment manager, 
and directly in the Funds and Shares Service Account. I can see that Mrs F allocated 
approximately 84% of her transferred pension savings to the investment manager, with the 
remainder being used for purchases in the Funds and Shares Service Account.
So AJB should calculate the overall returns that Mrs F has received during the period from 
her first investments being made on 15 October 2019 to the date of this final decision, on 
each account. And those returns should be applied to the relevant proportion of the 
compensation set out above to calculate the position Mrs F would now be in had nothing 
gone wrong.
Details of the calculation should be provided to Mrs F in a clear, simple format.
The total calculated compensation (additional transfer plus or minus investment returns) 
should be paid into Mrs F's SIPP. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. AJB should particularly note the 
Fixed Protection 2014 (FP2014) Mrs F holds on her lifetime allowance.
If AJB is unable to pay the total amount into Mrs F's SIPP, it should pay that amount direct to 
her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. 
Therefore the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mrs F's 
expected marginal rate of tax in her retirement. I have concluded that Mrs F is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer so the reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as 
Mrs F would have been able to take an additional tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation.
If payment of the compensation is not made within 28 days of AJB receiving Mrs Fs 
acceptance of my final decision, interest should be added to the compensation at the rate of 
8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Fs complaint and direct A J Bell Management Limited 
to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman