DRN-3456747
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as S, complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc has dealt 
with a claim it made under a Landlords insurance policy.
Mr S, a director of S, brings the complaint on its behalf.
What happened
What follows is meant to be a summary of the main points. It does not therefore provide all 
of the information or detail in full what happened.
In August 2019, S purchased a commercial property with the intention of letting it out. In 
February 2020, Mr S was informed there was a leak from the roof. It was then discovered 
that lead flashing and copper piping had been removed from the property causing 
substantial damage. Mr S made a claim on behalf of S to AXA.
AXA instructed a loss adjuster and surveyor to provide a report on the damage caused. In 
the course of its investigations, AXA had concerns about the way in which the claim had 
been presented and the information it had been given. It put those concerns to Mr S and 
said it wouldnt be meeting the claim unless those concerns were satisfied. It also let Mr S 
know it also didnt believe the property had been occupied in the previous 45 days, as 
required by the policy, so it wouldnt be meeting the claim.
Mr S complained to AXA on behalf of S as he was unhappy with the claim decision and how 
long it had taken AXA to reach that decision. AXA didnt change its position but did 
recognise there had been a delay in requesting relevant information during its investigation 
and awarded £300 compensation.
Mr S did not agree with AXAs response and therefore brought Ss complaint to this service. 
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on 10 March 2022, in it I said I wasnt intending to uphold the 
complaint for the following reasons:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr S Ive considered and thought carefully about all of the points he has 
made. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all 
the points raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to 
address every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr S and AXA to reach what I think is a fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, Im not minded to uphold this complaint for the following reasons: 
The policy contains both of the conditions AXA has referred to when declining the 
claim, so my role is to decide whether it has applied them fairly. It is not my role to 
reach a finding on whether the claim has been presented fraudulently, that would be 
a determination for a court to make.
Given the information presented to AXA, I think it has reasonably shown it is more 
likely that not the property was not occupied, as required by the policy, for a claim to 
be met. I think it has therefore acted fair and reasonably in applying the policy terms 
to decline the claim on that basis.
However, I also think AXA has reasonable concerns about the information provided 
to it about the claim and occupancy of the property. It has fairly put those to Mr S, as 
I would have expected it to do, and therefore he is fully aware of what those concerns 
are. It isnt my role to dictate how AXA should conduct its investigation or what 
information it should record as part of that. I think it has reasonable concerns and 
therefore it is entitled to make note of those on its internal systems. I wont therefore 
be asking AXA to remove these.
AXA has admitted there were delays during the course of its investigation and offered 
£300 compensation. While appreciate Mr S may have initially been told the claim 
would be accepted, I dont think S has financially lost out as a result of this as it 
would have always needed to pay for temporary repairs to the property. I think £300 
compensation is a reasonable amount and reflects the inconvenience caused to S by 
AXAs poor service.
Responses to my provisional decision
AXA responded saying it accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr S, responded on behalf of S saying said he didnt accept my findings and provided 
detailed reasoning as to why. In brief he said the following:
The delay in AXAs investigation was more than six months 
AXA didnt set out its concerns in detail until quite late in the claim, had it of done so 
earlier he may have been in a better position to provide information to it. He doesnt 
feel this was fair or that AXA approached its investigation in a timely or effective way.
He doesnt agree £300 compensation adequately reflects the inconvenience caused 
to S, let alone the loss of income due to having the property unoccupiable for longer 
than necessary and reduction in investment value of the property.
It isnt fair AXA has been able to mis-handled the claim, admit those failings and 
there is no recourse against it. Whereas S has been significantly disadvantaged.
AXA should be told to change the notes on its system to simply state occupancy 
couldnt be proven, as there is no commercial disadvantage to it doing so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Ss comments and why he feels very strongly about what has happened. I 
realise my decision here has an impact on S however I reach that decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in light of the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances. AXA is entitled to take the time it needs to conduct a thorough investigation. Where cases 
are complex or require further investigation, it isnt unusual for them to take many months or 
years to resolve. So, I dont think here, even taking into account that there were some 
delays, and I dont agree it amounted to the time Mr S has suggested, that the time AXA 
took to complete the investigations it did was wholly unreasonable or inappropriate. 
As mentioned in my provisional decision, it isnt my role to dictate or say how AXA should 
have conducted its investigation. Or is it my role to make a finding on whether the claim was 
presented fraudulently. However, I do think AXA had reasonable concerns and put those to 
S at the appropriate time when it had already given it an opportunity to obtain and provide 
the outstanding information and, it was in a position to put to S the full reasons why it 
wouldnt be meeting the claim. 
And I remain of the opinion that AXA has acted reasonably in recording such concerns on its 
internal systems, So I wont be asking it to remove the information. Whether or not there is a 
commercial advantage or disadvantage to either party here does not form part of my 
decision. My role is to decide whether or not I think AXA has acted fairly and reasonably.
Ive considered what Mr S has said, but for the reasons given in my provisional decision and 
above, I think the £300 compensation offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
the case. I remind Mr S that this is a commercial policy and therefore I can only consider the 
inconvenience to S of AXA errors in the handling of the claim. S, as a commercial business, 
could have undertaken temporary repairs earlier, seeking approval from AXA to do so, 
instead of waiting. I dont think it would be appropriate here to ask AXA to pay for loss of 
income or investment value given S had an opportunity early on to mitigate any further 
damage to the property.
Overall, having considered all of the evidence and arguments available to me and the further 
representations by the parties, I wont be changing the outcome set out in my provisional 
decision.  So, for the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold 
this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Ss complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2022.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman