DRN-3962469
The complaint
Mr J complains U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly declined a claim he made on his motor 
insurance policy.
UKI are the underwriters of this policy ie the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As UKI have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the 
agent, in my decision, any reference to UKI includes the actions of its agents acting on its 
behalf.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr J made a claim on his policy when he said his car was stolen. He said
he had driven to a friends house where he spent the night, and in the morning, he returned
to where he had parked, but his car wasnt there. UKI said it had concerns about the
circumstances of the theft, and concerns regarding an earlier claim in October 2021, for
damage to the rear of his car, which he said happened while he visited at the same friends
house. UKIs engineers didnt think Mr Js car had been damaged in the October incident,
and they thought the damage was pre-existing.
Mr J didnt agree and said the damage was made worse in the October 2021 incident. UKI
asked him to provide evidence of the estimates he received to have the area fixed before
and after the incident. However, it says this wasnt provided.
UKI declined Mr Js claims. It said it still had concerns about the circumstances of the theft
and questioned whether the car had been genuinely stolen. It didnt think there had been an
incident in October 2021. And it said Mr J denied there being any pre-existing damage when
he made his claim. It concluded that Mr J had knowingly given false information or
deliberately not provided information it asked for. It thought that he had not been honest in
bringing his claims and that he had intended to make a financial gain for himself or another
party.
Mr J brought his complaint to us because he didnt agree with UKIs decision. He says it only
explored two ways the car could have been stolen. He says he has video footage, from the
incident in October 2021, where the third-party driver admits hitting the car, and photographs
which show damage to both cars. Mr J says if he said the car didnt have pre-existing
damage it was down to miscommunication and wants to be paid for the car and his losses.
Mr J is also unhappy with the service he received and the way he was spoken to by the
claims handler. He says he often wasnt contacted on the date that was agreed. He says he 
wasnt given a courtesy car when he claimed for the theft. Mr J thinks UKI treated him like a
criminal and discriminated against him. He would like compensation for the stress the
situation caused him.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought UKI had
highlighted legitimate concerns. Our investigator also said the evidence suggests UKI didnt
get all the information it asked for. She thought UKI had fulfilled its obligations. And she
didnt think UKI had treated Mr J unreasonably on grounds of his background.
Mr J didnt accept our investigators opinion and so his complaint has been passed to me to
decide. I issued my provisional decision on 6 January 2023 in which I said: 
Mr J brought his complaint to us because UKI declined the claim he made when he said his
car was stolen. UKI confirmed this was in part due to concerns relating to the damage claim
in October 2021. Therefore, for me to decide whether its decision to decline his theft claim
was fair and reasonable, I must also consider its conclusions relating to the October 2021
claim.
UKI has given several reasons for declining these claims. Ultimately, it thinks they were
made fraudulently. Ive thought about whether UKI acted in line with the terms and
conditions of the policy, carried out a fair investigation, reviewed all the evidence available to
it and if its decision was fair and reasonable.
Claim for damage
The policy provides cover against loss or damage, caused by theft and in the case of a fire
or an accident. Mr J provided video footage of his conversation with the third-party driver
following the incident in October 2021. In the footage the third-party driver acknowledges his
car made contact with Mr Js car. Mr J also provided photographs of damage to the third-
party car. I note that UKI has provided evidence the third-party denied hitting Mr Js car to
his insurers. But on balance, I think its likely there was some contact made with Mr Js
parked car. And from what Ive seen, I think Mr J had reason to say there was an accident.
But it doesnt automatically follow that the claim should be paid. That will depend on the
terms and conditions of the policy, and any exclusions that may apply.
The terms and conditions of the policy state:
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times. We will not pay a claim that is in
any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated
Mr Js policy doesnt provide cover for the cost of repairs that would improve the car beyond
its condition prior to the incident being claimed for. So, I dont think UKI were required to
cover the cost to repair pre-existing damage to Mr Js car. It said it would only cover the cost
of damages caused by the incident, and I think thats fair. Mr J acknowledges there was pre-
existing damage to his car, however he says the damage was made worse in the incident of
October 2021.
UKIs engineers looked at photographs and carried out a physical inspection of the car. They
concluded that the damage was the same as was already present when he made a claim in
August 2021. Ive looked at the photographs taken following the August 2021 claim, 
alongside the photographs from the incident in October 2021. I note the photographs from
the two incidences show similar damage to the rear of the car. So, I dont think what the
engineer said was unreasonable.
UKI gave Mr J the opportunity to provide the two estimates he said he had received from his
local garage, to show it would cost more to repair the car. However, his garage wrote to UKI
and said they couldnt remember how much they had estimated the repairs would cost. His
local engineers didnt give their opinion on whether the damage was worse or if it would cost
more to repair. So, I dont find Mr J has provided sufficient evidence that the damage to his
car was made worse in the incident in October 2021. And I find it reasonable for UKI to rely
on its engineers expert opinion.
Ive also listened to the phone call Mr J had with UKI when he first logged his claim, and Ive
thought about the questions he was asked by the call handler and the answers given. the
call handler asks whether there was pre-existing damage to the car. They later specifically
ask if there was already damage to the rear of his car, and Mr J confirms there wasnt. Imsatisfied Mr J was asked clear and unambiguous questions. And I would expect him to take
care to provide accurate answers and I dont find that he did.
In answer to the questions Mr J discloses the damage to the front of his car from the claim
he made in August 2021. So, Im satisfied he understood the question he was being asked,
but he doesnt mention the pre-existing damage to the back of the car. I find he was given
several opportunities to disclose the pre-existing damage during this phone call. Especially
after the call handler further clarifies his understanding with Mr J, and confirms that any
damage to the rear of the car would therefore be new damage. So, on balance, I think its
more likely than not Mr J has knowingly answered these questions incorrectly.
Even if Mr J had been able to provide evidence the damage was made worse in the incident,
as he had not disclosed the pre-existing damage when asked, I find UKIs decision to decline
the claim on this basis was fair and reasonable.
Theft claim
Mr J reported the incident to the police and provided UKI with a crime reference, and it was
able to obtain the police report. Im satisfied he did enough to show he had reason to make a
claim for the theft of his car. As above, I dont think that it automatically means the claim
should be paid. UKI said it had concerns about the circumstances of the theft. It would
therefore be for it to show whether there is a valid claim or not.
Mr J said he was no longer on good terms with the friend he had visited that evening, so I
can understand his reluctance to make contact with her. I note he did eventually provide her
contact details and UKI was able to interview her as a witness. While it may have raised
concerns for UKI, I dont think it would be fair to decline the claim because of his reluctance
to involve someone he was not speaking to.
Mr J and his friend both confirmed that they communicated via social media. Ive also
listened to the first notification of loss phone call from his claim in October 2021, and I note
Mr J also stated at this time that their communication had been via social media. So, I dont
find it unreasonable that he didnt have her telephone number to provide.
UKI says there were inconsistencies between Mr Js and his friends statements to the
investigators. But I dont agree. Mr J said his car had been parked on a street next to his
friends property when it was stolen. I accept his friend said the car had been parked on her
street, however she also confirmed she had not seen the car that evening. UKI also
mentioned that his friend had tried to withdraw her statement but changed her mind. I dont 
think UKI can hold Mr J responsible for this. Im not satisfied this is enough to say Mr J made
a false claim for the theft of his car.
Without CCTV footage or a witness who saw the incident, it can be difficult to determine
exactly what happened. This is even more challenging as Mr Js car hadnt been recovered
and so the engineers couldnt inspect it. I think its fair for an insurer to rely on investigator
and engineer expert opinions and to consider what is most likely to have happened.
UKI ruled out the likelihood of a relay theft because Mr Js car was parked too far away from
the property, and I think thats fair. It said without use of the key it would be impossible to
take the car without activating the alarm. It thought the engine would be immobilised and so
the car couldnt be moved without a key. Therefore, it had concerns that the car had been
stolen using another key. I dont think its unreasonable it had these concerns, but Im not
persuaded its enough to show Mr Js car wasnt stolen or that he didnt have valid grounds
for a theft claim.
However, UKI ultimately declined the claim due to the concerns it had regarding the incident
in October 2021. As I said above, Im satisfied its decision to decline that claim was
reasonable. And the term it relied on says that if the policyholder  attempts to deceive usor knowingly makes a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim we may reject your claim and
any subsequent claims. So, I find its decision to also decline Mr Js theft claim on this basis
was fair and reasonable. And I dont think it needs to do anything more in this respect.
Customer service
The terms and conditions state that a courtesy car would be provided by an approved
repairer while the car is in for repairs. As his claim related to a theft, I dont find Mr J was
entitled to a courtesy car. I also note his policy didnt include the additional benefit of
guaranteed hire car cover, so I dont think UKI was required to provide him with a temporary
car to use.
Mr J says UKI discriminated against him on grounds of his race and sex. I should explain
that its not my role to decide if the Equality Act has been breached as thats for a court to
decide. However, Ive looked at whether Mr J was treated fairly by UKI.
UKI is entitled to take steps to validate a claim. So, I dont think its unreasonable it asked for
proof of ownership for the car. Considering Mr J wasnt sure whether the car was still under
a finance agreement, I dont think its unreasonable it tried to establish how the car was paid
for.
Mr J says the independent assessors carried out a two-hour interview and asked him
personal questions, but he was then questioned further by the claims handler. He isnt
happy that he was asked to contact the friend he had stayed with that night, even though he
wasnt comfortable speaking with them at the time.
I appreciate this was upsetting but, I think it is reasonable for UKI to want to speak with his
friend as part of its investigation to confirm the circumstances of the loss. Following the
independent assessors interview and their subsequent report they said they were unable to
validate the claim at the time. So, I think its fair for the claims handler to ask further
questions.
Ive listened to telephone calls Mr J had with the claims handler, and I found the handler was
polite, fair and consistent as they asked questions to enable them to validate the claim and
in explaining why it had been declined. With that in mind, I am satisfied Mr J was treated
fairly, reasonably and I havent seen anything that suggests he was treated differently to how 
UKI might treat another consumer in the same circumstances.
Mr J is also unhappy with the time taken to investigate his claim. However, I find the delay
was mostly because UKI was waiting for information from Mr J, such as his witnesss contact
details and the estimates from his local garage.
That said, from its notes I can see Mr J was at times promised he would be phoned back but
this didnt always happen on the date that was agreed. On one occasion Mr J was promised
a phone call to discuss the claim, which didnt happen, only to then receive the letter
declining his claim. Considering Mr J was without a car to use, I think this will have been
frustrating and upsetting at what was already a difficult time for him. So, I think UKI should
pay £100 for the upset it caused.
I know this isnt the answer Mr J hoped for and it will come as a disappointment to him, but I
think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI didnt think it should have to compensate Mr J for the customer service issues. It said 
that had Mr J been a genuine policyholder and there were customer service shortfalls, it 
wouldnt have any issues with a compensation award. Mr J also responded to my provisional decision and he says:
that he agreed he missed the opportunity to disclose the pre-existing damage, but he 
says it was an innocent mistake. 
That the case handler confirmed during a phone call that he didnt blame him for the 
delay, and this was because UKI was waiting for the police report. 
Mr J also says that throughout a phone call with the case handler, the handler was 
rude, avoided answering his questions and was difficult. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having also considered the additional comments from both parties, I see no reason to depart 
from what I said in my provisional decision and Ill explain why.
I appreciate that Mr J was stressed (due to his personal circumstances) at the time of 
reporting the incident, but as I said in my provisional decision, I think he was asked clear 
questions and given several opportunities to disclose the pre-existing damage during this 
phone call, but he didnt. I accept that Mr J later disclose it to UKI, but this was after its 
engineers inspected the car and stated the damage had been visible at the time of the 
earlier claim. I can see from its notes that in October 2021 a previous claims handler 
informed Mr J of what the engineer had said. So, I dont think UKIs decision to decline the 
claim was unreasonable.
While I accept it took some time to obtain the police report, I think this was not something 
UKI had control over. I find Mr J also contributed to the delays as he was asked on more 
than one occasion to provide his friends contact details and to provide the estimates from 
his local garage before he eventually did. 
Ive listened to the phone call in which Mr J says the call handler was rude and wouldnt 
answer his questions. Im satisfied the handler remained professional, and I dont agree he 
was rude, but I accept he didnt answer all Mr Js questions. However, I would mention, that 
he did make it clear he wouldnt be able to list all the ways in which the car might have been 
stolen. Ultimately, I dont think UKI needs to compensate Mr J for this.  
Even though I dont think UKI needs to pay the theft claim because of the issues with his 
claim in October 2021, Im satisfied Mr J did enough to show his car was stolen and he had 
valid grounds to claim the loss under the policy, but I dont think UKI has done enough to 
show his theft claim wasnt genuine. UKI doesnt dispute that there were customer service 
issues in relation to its handling of Mr Js claims, so I think its fair and reasonable it 
compensates him for this.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint and require U K Insurance Limited 
to pay £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 March 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman