DRN-3541997
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard unfairly reduced the 
credit limit on his credit card. 
What happened
Mr K has told us in October 2020 he received a letter from Barclaycard that explained it 
intended to decrease his credit limit from £15,000 to £250 in December 2020. Barclaycard 
said it would review its decision if Mr K sent evidence of his income. 
Mr K forwarded evidence to show how much he earns and Barclaycard reviewed it but didnt 
agree to change its decision. The credit limit was reduced to £250 in December 2020. 
After Mr K complained, Barclaycard sent him a final response. Barclaycard said it had 
considered various pieces of information about Mr K including details from his credit file and 
payment history when reaching its decision. Barclaycard didnt agree it had acted unfairly or 
made a mistake when reducing Mr Ks credit limit. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ks complaint but didnt agree Barclaycard had 
acted unfairly. Mr K asked to appeal and said hed like to know what risk assessment 
Barclaycard had completed as his circumstances had improved at the time the credit limit 
was reduced. As Mr K asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr K wants a more detailed explanation of how Barclaycard reached its 
decision. Mr K has also told us his circumstances and income had improved around the time 
Barclaycard made its decision. I appreciate Barclaycards decision seems illogical to Mr K. 
But, Barclaycard is free to decide the basis on which it lends, in line with its commercial 
discretion. We cant tell a business how to set its lending criteria but we can look at whether 
its been fairly applied. 
Mr K should note that Barclaycard has provided commercially sensitive information to this 
service that shows information it used when reaching its decision. Because of the nature of 
the information provided, we cant share it directly with Mr K. But, I can confirm Ive 
completed an impartial review and can see the information Barclaycard has sent us was 
taken into account when looking at Mr Ks credit limit. 
Barclaycard has given Mr K a broad understanding of the type of information it considers, 
including details from his credit file and payment history. Barclaycard reviewed its decision 
after seeing evidence of Mr Ks income but didnt change its mind. That means Barclaycard 
has reviewed Mr Ks credit limit twice, based and reached the decision to reduce it. I 
appreciate the drop was sizable, but I havent seen anything that shows Barclaycard made a 
mistake or unfairly reduced Mr Ks credit limit. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr K but as I havent been persuaded that Barclaycard acted 
unfairly Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman