DRN-2657373
The complaint
Mr T has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him a fee-
paying Flex Plus packaged bank account, which he took out in July 2014.
Mr T says amongst other things the account was mis-sold because he was not eligible for 
the benefits that the account came with.
What happened
One of our adjudicators considered Mr Ts complaint and he concluded that Nationwide had 
not mis-sold the account. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators findings and so the complaint 
has been referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about mis-sold packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint.
Having looked at everything that Mr T and Nationwide have provided, I am unable to 
conclude that the account had been mis-sold or that Nationwide has acted unreasonably. I 
will explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr T was given a fair choice as to whether to take out the 
account. I can see that Mr T had held a fee free account prior to the Flex Plus so I think that 
he wouldve been aware that free accounts existed and were an option for him. And from 
what Mr T has explained about the sale itself I think that he was aware that he did not need 
to agree to change his account, if he did not wish to do so. So overall, I think that he was 
given a fair choice when taking out the Flex Plus account.
From what both parties have said I think that this sale was carried out on an information only 
basis. This means that Nationwide was not required to check if the packaged account, or 
any of the individual benefits it included, were right for Mr T. However, Nationwide was 
required to present Mr T with the important information about the account and associated 
benefits, so that he could decide for himself whether it was right for him.
I am satisfied that the major benefits of the account were highlighted to Mr T and this has 
been confirmed by him in his complaint correspondence. What seems to be the issue is 
whether he was given enough information to allow him to fairly decide whether the account 
was right for him. The main issue is that Mr T says he was not told that he would be 
ineligible for the Travel insurance and that he was not told that his car was too old for him to 
use the breakdown cover. 
In relation to the Travel insurance, the member of staff could not at the time of the sale say if 
Mr T would be covered without an additional fee. All they could do is make it clear that Mr T 
would need to contact the travel insurer to check his eligibility. This seems to have occurred 
as Mr T says he did contact the travel insurer in 2017 and was told he would have to pay an 
additional fee. I also think its likely that had the travel insurance been the sole reason he 
took out the account he wouldve downgraded his account at this point.
In relation to the breakdown cover, I have gone through the policy booklet from around the 
time of the sale and I cant see that at this time there was a term which limited the age of a 
vehicle. There are restrictions in relation to whether a car is roadworthy, but I cant see 
anything in relation to there being a hard limit on the age of the car. Given this, I cant see 
that this term shouldve been highlighted during the sale itself.
Mr T has also mentioned that he did not receive an overdraft limit extension. But as we have 
explained, it does appear that he received a £250 at the time of the account change.
I accept that Mr T may not have been told everything about all of the remaining benefits that 
the Flex Plus account came with. But I cant see anything specific that Mr T was not told that 
I think wouldve altered his decision to take out the account. 
With the benefit of hindsight, it may seem as if agreeing to the Flex Plus account did not 
provide Mr T value for money. But ultimately, I think that Mr T agreed to the account knowing 
he did not have to, after being given enough information to decide whether it was right for 
him. So I cant say that it was mis-sold in the first instance. I therefore dont think it would be 
appropriate to ask Nationwide to refund the fees that he has paid for the account.
So, taking everything into account, I cant say that Nationwide mis-sold the Flex Plus 
account or acted unreasonably in this matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman