DRN-2669515
The complaint
Miss H complains that Hitachi Capital Plc hasnt dealt fairly with the complaint she brought 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. She wants an increased level of 
compensation for damage incurred to her property after the fitting of a boiler.
What happened
Miss H is represented in this complaint by Mr T. But for ease of reading Ill just refer to her. 
Miss H tells that in November 2019 she purchased a new boiler through a dealer Ill refer to 
as S. This was financed through a fixed sum loan from Hitachi. Miss H says that as result 
of S damaging the programmer a replacement had to be fitted. And as this was a different 
size it required the kitchen to be re-tiled. Some months later Miss H noticed a leak had 
caused damage to the kitchen top. The cause of which she put down to faulty wiring. Miss H 
states that the total cost of repairs is at least £379 (worktop) and £763 (re-tiling). But that 
Hitachi and S have together only paid £700.
Hitachi told us that S had agreed to pay £300 towards the worktop repairs and £200 towards 
the re-tiling. Although it didnt accept that its (S) workman had damaged the programmer or 
installed faulty wiring. Hitachi said that it had also paid £200 as a gesture of goodwill in 
respect of re-tiling. Hitachi explained that neither it nor S accepted that it was necessary to 
re-tile the whole kitchen.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She felt the level of 
compensation offered had been fair. She said that pictures taken before the installation 
showed a gap in the tiling with the previous programmer in place.
Miss H didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Miss H feels strongly about this matter. And I understand that she is upset that 
the boiler installation led to some additional damage and inconvenience.
Mrs H complaint is that due to issues arising from the installation of a boiler she incurred 
further cost in terms of damage to a worktop and having to re-tile her kitchen due to a 
different type of programmer being fitted. And she feels the compensation offered doesnt 
cover the extra expense.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Section 75, in certain limited circumstances, gives a consumer an equal right to make a 
claim against the supplier of finance as they would have against a supplier of goods and 
services. It requires there to have been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
I also think its important to set out my role here. Im dealing with a complaint about Hitachi 
and not directly about S.  And Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might 
have under Section 75. Rather, Im deciding whats a fair way to resolve Miss Hs complaint. 
I have to take account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 is relevant law. Any 
liability that Hitachi might potentially have arises out of a breach of contract by S. Hitachi isnt 
liable for what might be characterised as poor service by S.
I also want to assure Miss H that in assessing the level of compensation, Im not suggesting 
that shes not told the truth. I accept that shes provided her view of events honestly and in 
reasonable terms. 
In terms of the compensation offered for the worktop I believe that was negotiated and 
settled between S and her partner (and representative). It seems he had the required skills 
and did the necessary work. As the compensation was set at an agreed level, Im not able to 
alter that now.
Theres a dispute about if the existing programmer was damaged by S. And if this led to the 
kitchen having to be re-tiled. But I dont think I need to resolve this individual point. Ill explain 
why.
Any consequential loss alleged to have arisen from a breach of contract must be 
foreseeable. And remedial action is limited to putting things back as near as possible to 
where they were. It is not required to improve them. The pictures Ive seen show that there 
was a gap in the tiling underneath the previously installed programmer  before the new 
programmer was fitted. So even if the previous programmer was damaged by S  and Im 
not expressing any view as to whether it was or was not  Ive seen nothing to suggest that it 
required the entire kitchen to be re-tiled. The remedy if any damage had been caused would 
only have been to restore the damaged area to its previous condition.
The other important consideration is that Ive seen nothing to show that either Hitachi or S 
were given notice of the issue before the re-tiling was carried out. Theres a duty on a 
consumer to mitigate any loss they incur as the result of an alleged breach of contract. So 
its possible that Hitachi or S wouldve been able to put things right  were it to have been 
shown that they were liable to do so.
I find that Hitachi has dealt with the complaint fairly. The overall level of compensation which 
has been paid by it and S is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable.
I accept that Miss H will be disappointed with my decision. Im not upholding this complaint. 
But I repeat my assurance that it is based entirely on my view that Hitachi has done all that 
can reasonably be expected of it in the circumstances. And not on any doubts about the 
information shes provided.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman