DRN-3379438
The complaint
Ms H complains about U K Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under her home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H has a home insurance policy underwritten by UKI which covers her contents and 
buildings, amongst other things.
She made a claim in 2013, relating to subsidence at the rear of her property. UKI accepted 
the claim. They concluded that the subsidence was due to leaks from the drains which run 
underneath the house. And they carried out repairs to the drains and to the damage caused 
to Ms Hs home.
Ms H contacted UKI again in October 2018, after she noticed cracks reappearing in her 
home and patches of damp in various places.
UKI appointed a surveyor (from here on in, Ill refer to them as surveyor A) to inspect the 
property. In brief, they concluded that there had been some subsidence, which had caused 
damage to Ms Hs home.
They said this was likely due to clay shrinkage. Possible causes were a rainwater pipe which 
discharged direct onto the hard standing outside the rear of the house and/or a tree in the 
neighbours garden.
They also recommended further monitoring, to confirm that the minor movement had 
stopped, and then repairs of the subsidence-related damage in the house. They said the 
damp wasnt caused by the subsidence issues.
I neednt go into the full detail here because both parties are fully aware of the history, but 
UKI then proceeded to carry out further investigations and monitoring and came to the 
conclusion that the internal repairs could now be completed.
Ms H wasnt happy with UKIs proposals and so commissioned her own surveyor (who Ill 
refer to as surveyor B) to inspect the property.
He came to the conclusion that the subsidence was due to a leak in the drains  which 
hadnt been repaired effectively in 2013. He also felt that all of the damage inside Ms Hs 
home  including the damp and issues with the roof  were caused by that subsidence.
He recommended, in summary, that UKI replace the drains entirely, underpin the 
loadbearing walls in the house and then complete all the necessary repairs to the house 
itself.
Given that the two surveyors were in clear disagreement about what had happened, why it 
had happened, and what needed to be done to put it right, UKI suggested they appoint an 
entirely independent third surveyor (who Ill call surveyor C). Ms H selected surveyor C from 
a list of six put forward by UKI.
To summarise, surveyor C concluded that the house was now stable and any movement due 
to subsidence had ceased. They agreed with surveyor B that the problem had most likely 
been caused by water leaks from the drains.
But they said the drains could be repaired, rather than replaced entirely. And they felt that 
underpinning wasnt necessary given that the movement had stopped.
They also said that the subsidence and leaks had likely caused some of the damage to the 
house, but that there were areas of damage which couldnt be linked to the subsidence. In 
particular, the damp in the front room, damage to the shower cubicle and bathroom, the 
kitchen door (which was not closing or locking properly) and the roof at the rear of the 
building.
UKI had agreed to be bound by the recommendations from surveyor C and were prepared to 
proceed on that basis. But Ms H objected  she thought surveyor Bs report was more 
accurate and compelling. And she wanted UKI to take up surveyor Bs recommendations.
When UKI werent willing to do that, Ms H complained to them and then brought her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought UKI had done the right thing in appointing an 
independent surveyor (surveyor C) to break the deadlock.
But she thought surveyor Bs report was more detailed, more accurate and more compelling. 
And she came to the view that UKI should carry out the work that surveyor B had 
recommended  including replacing the drains and underpinning the house.
UKI disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
Having considered all the evidence and information we had, I agreed with our investigator 
that Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. But I took a different view about what UKI need to 
do to put things right.
So, I issued a provisional decision This gave both Ms H and UKI an opportunity to provide 
further information or evidence and/or comment on my thinking before I make my final 
decision in this case, which will be this services last word on the matter.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the first thing I should say is that surveyor B  commissioned by Ms H  and 
surveyor C  who is independent  agree that there has been on-going subsidence at 
the rear of Ms Hs property since the repairs were carried out after the claim in 2013.
More importantly perhaps, they agree that the cause of that very likely wasnt the 
rainwater pipe discharging onto the hard standing or the neighbours tree (as 
surveyor A suggested). They both say there has been an on-going leak of water from 
the drains which were supposed to have been repaired after the 2013 claim.So, I dont think anyone is now disputing that UKI should stop the leak from the 
drains and carry out repairs to any damage to Ms Hs home caused by the 
subsidence after 2013.
There are however, two major and significant differences in the two reports.
The first relates to what UKI need to do to put an end to the problem. Surveyor B 
says they should replace the drains and underpin the house. Surveyor C says the 
drains can be repaired and its not necessary to underpin, because the house is 
stable.
The second relates to the repairs to the house itself. Surveyor B believes, more or 
less, that all the damage in the house is due to the subsidence and/or the leak of 
water from the drains.
Surveyor C says some of the damage is down to the subsidence (and should 
therefore be repaired by UKI), but not the damage to the back door, the shower 
cubicle and bathroom or the rear roof.
Ill deal with the latter issue first  the damage to the house itself.
Surveyor C later agreed that he made some erroneous assumptions when he 
prepared his report. For example, damage to the roof (and damage from a supposed 
subsequent leak) was put down to impact from a firework. Ms H pointed out that 
incident happened in a different part of the roof - and was repaired.
I also agree with our investigator that surveyor Cs account of the damage to the 
back door was likely wrong. He did say that he was relying on evidence from a 
contractor who examined the door and said it had been badly hung.
But that doesnt alter that fact that the door had been operating without any problem 
for several years after it had been hung  which suggests the later jamming was due 
to movement in the door and/or doorframe or the floor / walls around them.
On the other hand, surveyor B gives a very compelling account of how damage to the 
roof and to the front of the property (away from the seat of the leak) may likely have 
been caused by the subsidence attributable to the leak from the drain.
So, on balance, Im inclined to agree that surveyor Bs report is more reliable and 
more compelling in identifying what damage to the house can be put down to the 
subsidence  and ultimately the leaking drain.
Both reports give a cogent, coherent and compelling account of the cause of the 
subsidence (on which they broadly agree). And both make consistent, logical and 
convincing arguments about what needs to be done now to prevent any further 
subsidence problems at the property (on which they disagree).
Its not for me to act as a fourth expert in this case. And I have no doubt that both 
surveyors have given an entirely honest account of their opinion.
I suspect that if two very well qualified and reputable surveyors can disagree about 
the work necessary to protect Ms Hs property, then there is a very real and finely 
balanced question here about how best to resolve things.On balance Im inclined, as things stand, to ask UKI to carry out repairs to the drains 
in line with surveyor Cs recommendations. And Im inclined, as things stand, not to 
require them to carry out underpinning work.
I think this is a case of two expert professionals having a very legitimate and finely-
balanced difference of opinion. Im sure both opinions have merit. And both would be 
regarded as respectable - and within the range of reasonable opinions which might 
be expressed by a member of their profession.
I believe our investigator was persuaded by the fact that there is one sure way here 
to avoid any possibility of any further problems for Ms H. That being to take the 
recommendations of surveyor B and secure the house by underpinning and 
replacement of the drains.
But our duty of fairness also extends to UKI and I have to bear in mind the effort and 
expense involved in the solution suggested by surveyor B. To say nothing of the 
great and prolonged inconvenience to Ms H herself if the more radical repair scheme 
is accepted.
I also have to bear in mind that surveyor C was entirely independent. And that whilst 
Ms H didnt agree to be bound by his findings, she certainly agreed that his report 
might be a means to break the apparent deadlock after the reports provided by 
surveyor A and surveyor B.
On balance  and particularly bearing in mind the results of the on-going monitoring 
of the cracks in Ms Hs property (which havent widened for some considerable time) 
 I think its more likely than not that the house is stable and will remain so as long as 
effective repairs are made to the drains.
And for those reasons, Im inclined as things stand to require UKI to repair the drains, 
as suggested by surveyor C, but not to require them to underpin the load bearing 
walls in the house.
In summary, Im minded to ask UKI to carry out all the repairs to the house 
suggested by surveyor B, but to carry out preventative work to guard against further 
subsidence in line with the recommendations of surveyor C.
I sincerely hope this will put an end to the problems Ms H has experienced for many 
years now. But I would stress that if the subsidence recurs at any point and causes 
further damage, I would expect UKI to review the position very quickly.
Id also expect that UKI would then carry out the more fundamental works suggested 
by surveyor B, unless there is a very good reason not to do so and an acceptable 
alternative means to resolve the problem.
There are one or two other issues that I also need to comment on here.
First, UKI should not treat this as a new claim and charge Ms H another excess. In 
essence, both surveyors B and C agree that the problems Ms H has experienced 
more recently are the direct result of the failed attempts to repair the drains after the 
2013 claim. I expect UKI to rectify the errors their contractors made at that time and 
not to ask Ms H to contribute in any way to paying for the further work now.
Second, UKI should reimburse Ms H for any work shes already paid for to rectify 
damage which surveyor B puts down to the subsidence. That includes any work carried out on the rear roof of the property and any expense incurred relating to the 
rear door.
Third, if they havent already done so, UKI should reimburse Ms H for her costs in 
commissioning surveyor B. Had she not done so, the claim might have been settled 
in an unfair and inappropriate manner, on the basis of surveyor As findings.
Finally, although I agree with our investigator that UKI did the right thing in agreeing 
to appoint a third, independent surveyor, that wouldnt have been necessary, had 
their own surveyor found the issues with the drains later identified by both surveyor B 
and surveyor C.
Ms H reported her on-going problems to UKI in October 2018. And she is still waiting 
for the necessary work to begin. And given that the current issues appear to have 
arisen only because the drain repairs after the 2013 claim failed, I think Ms H has 
experienced several years of stress and inconvenience due to UKIs (or their 
contractors) errors.
So, Im minded to require UKI to pay Ms H £500 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused by their errors since 2013.
The responses to my provisional decision
UKI responded to my provisional decision simply to say that they accepted my findings. Im 
grateful to UKI for confirming that.
Ms H responded in more detail. Ill try to summarise her points without necessarily wanting to 
repeat them here word-for-word. Im sure Ms H will understand if my summary doesnt cover 
the full detail she provided.
Ms H wants me to re-consider my decision that her drains can be repaired. She says 
Surveyor C said the drains were serviceable, but she believes they do become blocked 
from time to time due to the bowing in the pipes mentioned by the various surveys. 
And she says that the initial CCTV survey failed until the drains were flushed  likely 
because of a blockage caused by the bowing. She also says she has to flush her toilet twice, 
which shows the drains are not working properly.
Ms H wants me to require UKI to replace the drains, with the provision of a concrete bed 
underneath the pipes to prevent bowing. She says the previous attempts at repair clearly 
failed, likely due to the lining of a six inch pipe with a 4 inch liner. And she fears any further 
attempt at repair will lead to the same result  on-going leaks underneath the house and 
further subsidence.
Ms H also says that the repair or replacement schedule / plan for the drains should be 
prepared by an independent surveyor. She has lost trust in surveyor A, due to their failure to 
get the repairs right in 2013 / 2014. And she believes their analysis of the problem in 2018  
subsequently shown to be false by both surveyor B and surveyor C  suggests they dont 
have an understanding of the issues with her home.
Finally, Ms H thinks the compensation I suggested for her trouble and upset (£500) is 
insufficient. She says the issues have been on-going for nine years since she first made a 
claim to UKI.And in that time, shes had to cope with damp in her kitchen and a house in an increasing 
state of disrepair. She says this has affected her mental health and that she hasnt been able 
to move to a new location as shed intended. She also says shes had a dehumidifier running 
constantly, at great cost in times of her energy bills.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H is clearly concerned that if UKI dont underpin her house and replace her drains 
completely, there is a possibility that the problems shes experienced will either continue or 
re-emerge at a later date.
I completely understand that. Anyone in Ms Hs position would feel the same way, I suspect. 
But I have to make a decision based on the available expert evidence and the balance of 
probabilities. And I have to bear in mind that the absolutely risk-free solution may be 
disproportionate in light of the available evidence.
On that basis, Im not going to fundamentally change my view about whether UKI repairs or 
replaces the drains. I think repairs are the proportionate response right now, in light of 
surveyor Cs report and in light of the evidence about the current level of movement of the 
property.
I hope Ms H will understand that UKI have absolutely no interest whatsoever in doing a 
botched set of repairs which might well lead to the drain failing again in the near future. If 
that happens, UKI will have to then carry out more fundamental works and they will have 
ended up paying twice to get Ms Hs home in a sound state. I strongly suspect UKI wants to 
get these issues sorted for once and for all, almost as much as Ms H does.
All of that said, I think Ms H is well within her rights to ask that UKI do not use surveyor A 
again to set out the scope of works for the repairs. Its not unreasonable for her to say she 
doesnt trust them to identify all the issues and deal with them effectively given the history of 
her claim.
So, I am going to require UKI to use a different surveyor to plan the repair work. I dont think 
I need to go so far as to say the surveyor has to be independent. That may just lead to more 
delays. But I am of course expecting that the scope of works will be thorough and subject to 
appropriate checking and control by UKI. 
Again, I bear in mind that UKI have no interest in carrying out cheap and ineffective repairs. 
And I should be very clear that the onus is very much now on UKI to carry out effective and 
lasting repairs to Ms Hs property. 
This should include remedying any bowing to the drains which may be likely to cause 
blockages, partial blockages or standing water in the drains. 
Im not a surveyor and its not for me to set out how that can be achieved. There may indeed 
be a number of different ways to achieve that end. But I hope it goes without saying that it 
will not be fair or reasonable for UKI to leave Ms Hs drains in a state where blockages are 
likely to occur and/or water does not run freely.
Finally, I understand Ms Hs view on the level of compensation suggested in my provisional 
decision. She has very eloquently set out the effect the on-going problems with her property 
have had on her.However, I have to consider what part of Ms Hs understandable distress and inconvenience 
has been caused purely by UKIs errors. As opposed, of course, to the stress, trouble and 
anxiety she would have experienced because her house has a subsidence problem. 
UKI arent responsible for causing that problem and I cant hold them to account for all the 
worry Ms H has experienced or all the effects on her home.
I have to bear in mind that Ms H originally raised this issue with UKI in 2013. And, as far as 
UKI were aware, matters were resolved by 2014. Ms H then contacted them again in 2018. I 
can say that UKI failed to make effective and lasting repairs in 2014, but I cant reasonably 
say theyre responsible for whatever trouble and upset Ms H experienced between 2014 and 
2018. Simply because they werent aware there was a problem.
So, when Ms H says shes experienced nine years of anxiety and upset, its difficult for me to 
attribute all of that to UKI. I also have to consider that Ms Hs anxiety between 2014 and 
2018 wasnt sufficient to prompt her to go back to UKI to ask them to carry out further 
investigations at the property.
None of this is intended to diminish the very unfortunate experience Ms H has had with her 
house, or to downplay the effect on her. But Im satisfied that the compensation I suggested 
in my provisional decision is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In response to my provisional decision, Ms H also raised the question whether she should be 
compensated for the higher energy bills she paid because she was using a dehumidifier with 
great regularity. 
This wasnt an issue addressed in UKIs final response to Ms Hs complaint to them. I 
assume because it wasnt raised at the time. It also wasnt covered in our investigators view. 
Again, because it wasnt part of the original complaint, as far as I can see. Nor did Ms H 
raise it in response to that view.
If Ms H wishes to provide evidence to UKI to show that her energy bills were appreciably 
higher in the relevant period due to her almost constant use of a dehumidifier, Im sure they 
will consider that as part of her claim. 
But if they havent been asked to do that yet  as it appears, from the evidence we have on 
file at least  its not possible, under the rules which govern our service, for me to uphold a 
complaint about that point now and require UKI to reimburse Ms H.
Putting things right
As I say, Im not fundamentally changing the outcome proposed in my provisional decision, 
for the reasons Ive set out above.
Im still of the view that UKI need to repair the drains, repair Ms Hs house itself (as 
recommended by surveyor B), pay Ms H for relevant repairs already carried out, pay Ms H 
for surveyor Bs report, and pay Ms H £500 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
I do though agree with Ms Hs suggestion that surveyor A should not be involved in any way 
in determining what repairs are carried out to the drains. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Ms Hs complaint. 
U K Insurance Limited must:carry out repairs to the drains as recommended by surveyor C (and must not involve 
surveyor A in planning or carrying out this work);
carry out repairs to Ms Hs house as recommended by surveyor B;
reimburse Ms H for the cost of commissioning surveyor B;
reimburse Ms H for repairs shes already paid for (as set out above in my provisional 
decision); and
pay Ms H £500 in compensation for her trouble and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman