DRN-4066034
The complaint
Mr K complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax have unfairly registered defaults 
on his credit file.  
What happened
Mr K took out two personal loans with Halifax in 2019 for the total value of £28,000. Mr K 
spoke to Halifax in November 2021 as he was experiencing financial difficulties. Following 
an income and expenditure review, Halifax agreed with Mr K a reduced repayment plan of 
£500 per month, to be split between the two accounts. 
Mr K said that he logged onto his account in July 2022 to make a repayment, only to realise 
that his loan accounts had been closed and defaults applied to his credit file. Mr K raised a 
complaint with Halifax as he said hed received no notice of Halifaxs actions and wanted the 
defaults to be removed. 
Halifax did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. They confirmed the payment arrangement had only 
been for six months and finished in May 2022. Halifax said they had attempted to contact   
Mr K in June 2022 but were unable to get hold of him. The accounts had been in arrears 
since April 2021 and as a previous default notice had been sent in November 2021, a final 
demand letter was sent to Mr K in June 2022. With no further response, the loans were then 
closed, and defaults were registered on 6 July 2022. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. They were satisfied the 
accounts had been in arrears for over three months and that the correct arrears and default 
notice letters were sent to Mr Ks address. Our investigator explained that businesses had 
an obligation to report accurate information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and 
couldnt agree that Halifax had made an error. 
Mr K disagreed. He argued that the letters were never sent and should have been sent by 
recorded delivery. He also said Halifax should have phoned him as they had done 
previously. Mr K requested telephone calls with Halifax be reviewed as he believed he was 
misinformed about the arrangement. Our investigator reviewed further information but 
maintained that Halifax had followed the right process and letters had been sent to the 
correct address. 
  
As Mr K disagreed  the complaint has been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
After the repayment plan was set up, which was the second plan Halifax had agreed to for 
Mr K, they sent letters confirming the details of the plan outlining it would run from              
20 December 2021 to 20 May 2022. Ive also seen contact notes, including a conversation    
Mr K had with Halifax in January 2022, where the potential impact of the plan on his credit 
file was discussed. So, I cant agree that Mr K was misadvised on the details and potential 
impact the plan would have. I accept Mr Ks point that he maintained the repayments during 
this plan but the arrears on the accounts continued to build. 
The Information Commissioners Office gives guidance on the registration of defaults and 
says a default should be registered after between three and six months of arrears. As Mr Ks 
accounts were still in arrears at the end of the plan, Im satisfied it was the correct next step 
to register the defaults.
 
Mr K feels that Halifax should have contacted him via telephone as they had done 
previously. However, I can see Halifax attempted to do so on 8 June 2022 and                    
15 June 2022. With no answer or response to the calls, the final demand letter was sent the 
next day. 
Further to this, in June 2022, Mr Ks mortgage had also fallen into arrears. This would mean 
that a further combined repayment plan wouldnt have been possible at this time. And at this 
point, Halifax would have needed the arrears of the account to be repaid in full to prevent 
further action. And from what Ive seen I dont think this would have been possible for Mr K 
to do, to prevent the defaults from being applied. 
Ive reviewed the default notice letters sent on 2 November 2021, the plan letters sent          
1 December 2021 and the final demand letters sent on 16 June 2022. All were sent to the 
correct address on file for Mr K and the same address we have registered with our service. 
Ive also reviewed Halifaxs system notes which show that the letters were printed and sent 
for each loan. On balance, Im satisfied that all these letters were sent. And I cant hold 
Halifax responsible for any possible issues that the postal service may have caused after the 
letters were sent. Nor do I think it unreasonable the letters were sent via normal delivery. 
Mr K was required under the terms and conditions of the loans, to make the required 
payments. As these werent maintained I believe the correct action was taken. Halifax also 
have a duty to accurately report information to the CRAs about how Mr Ks accounts were 
run. So, Im satisfied in these circumstances it wasnt unreasonable for Halifax to register the 
defaults on Mr Ks credit file. 
I appreciate how strongly Mr K feels about his complaint and I recognise the impact hes 
explained the defaults have had on his financial circumstances. But overall, I cant fairly 
order Halifax to remove the defaults when they were correctly applied. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman