DRN-2917377
The complaint
Mr B has complained that U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (UKI) unfairly 
increased his premium for his pet policy at the 2019 renewal.
What happened
Mr B took out a life time policy for his dog in 2008 with UKI. He added a second dog to the 
policy in 2015. 
In 2019, Mr B said he was shocked and distressed to find his premium has increased from 
£1,247.72 per year to £1,514.25 per year. Despite claims having been made on the policy, 
he had no expectation given the previous years increase that his premium would again rise 
so substantially. He said this potentially makes his policy for his two dogs unaffordable. 
Mr B believes quite adamantly that UKI has taken advantage of his situation, given the age 
of his dogs plus the fact it is a life time policy. This is because he cant just change insurers 
as any pre-existing conditions either of his two dogs have, wont then be covered by any 
other pet insurer, as general rule. 
Ms B doesnt believe UKI has been able to justify this increase and he believes such a 
significant premium increase is unfair and unreasonable.
He complained to UKI and UKI said it has calculated his premium amount correctly given the 
risks presented and Mr B hasnt been singled out or treated differently.
Mr B remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator ultimately 
thought UKI hadnt done anything wrong. Mr B disagreed so his complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
First, I want to assure Mr B that I have considered all his comments fully and can sympathise 
with the shock he suffered by the extent of the premium increase. However, I can only direct 
UKI to make things right, if it has done something wrong.
 
This service is not the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority is) so I cant decide issues 
of the amount of premium charged or UKIs decision as to its evaluation that Mr Bs dogs 
pose as a risk to be covered. I can only assess if UKI followed its own underwriting criteria 
and whether anyone else in Mr Bs situation would be treated the same. 
And that is the case here. Insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge its customers 
for the risks presented provided all customers in the same situation are treated the same. 
UKI is no different. This is whats called commercial discretion and its not something Im 
empowered to interfere with. As the investigator explained, this service cant decide what 
UKI should charge Mr B on the basis of the risks his dogs present as that is a matter for UKI 
to decide. Providing it treats all its other customers in similar circumstances and similar risks 
the same, UKI has done nothing wrong. Pet policies are sold on non-advised basis which 
means UKI or indeed any other insurer dont provide any advice on which product would 
best suit the needs of Mr B. Its only duty is to ensure appropriate information is given on the 
products available so a consumer in Mr Bs can make their own informed decision.
 
UKI has shown is us that it hasnt singled out Mr B in any way and that varying factors to 
include previous claims history, age of the pets to be insured and vet costs are considered 
each year when the policy renews. I cant share that information with Mr B as its 
commercially sensitive. And since we publish our decisions, such information cannot be 
shared in the public domain.
Further as the investigator also explained, it isnt unusual or difficult to understand that as a 
pet gets older, the likelihood of making a claim increases too. That in turn increases the cost 
of the risk to be insured. UKI has also told us that Mr B has had several conversations with it 
concerning the premium over the years and that it has offered Mr B other pet insurance 
products which might be more affordable, albeit that cover provided might be restricted. 
Also, UKI has explained that it couldnt tell a consumer what they would be paying until the 
risk is assessed again at the renewal date. This is because risks change all the time and 
claims are made and dependant on that and several other factors the price is only calculated 
at the time of the renewal. 
So, in conclusion I dont consider UKI has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
So, for those reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman