DRN-3494420
The complaint
Company A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank Plc wouldnt reimburse the money they lost due to 
an authorised push payment scam. They say that the bank was culpable in allowing the 
payment to be made without adequate checks. They also say that the bank should have 
reimbursed the lost sum under the Contingent Reimbursement Model code (the CRM 
code).
What happened
The background to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at
length here. Briefly, in December 2020, A was in email correspondence with the agent of 
one of their clients for a transfer of about £150,000 to the client. Unknown to the company it 
appears that their email server was hacked into and an email between two directors of A 
was intercepted and payment details of the client altered. The fraud came to light about two 
weeks later when the agent contacted A for payment.
The company immediately contacted their bank Lloyds which in turn contacted the 
intermediary bank based abroad. Lloyds sent chasers and was ultimately told that no funds 
remained in the recipients account.
A believes that Lloyds should refund the money as the bank allowed the payment to be 
made without checking the recipients name. They also believe that they are entitled to the 
reimbursement under the CRM code.
Our investigator concluded that complaint could not be upheld. They said that the payment 
wasnt particularly unusual or suspicious for the bank to have acted upon. As regards the 
allegation that Lloyds failed to check the recipients name, the investigator said that the bank 
is required to do this only where a process called the Confirmation of Payee (CoP) applied. 
However, that applies to domestic payments only and this was an international payment. 
The investigator further said that because this was an international payment, it was also out 
of scope of the CRM code.
A disagreed with the investigators opinion that Lloyds couldnt be held responsible on this 
occasion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about what had happened to A. I can understand why they feel that as the
innocent party, they shouldnt lose out. But having thought very carefully, I dont think I can 
fairly say that Lloyds should reimburse the sum the company had lost. Ill explain why.
It is not disputed that the company authorised and instructed the bank to make the payment. 
Because of this, Lloyds had an obligation to follow its instruction. However, there are some 
situations in which the bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer. For example, Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout for any unusual 
and out of character transactions.
I have reviewed As account statements for several months leading up to the scam. In 
summary, there were many payments out of the account of a similar size or even higher. 
There had also been payments abroad. Further, the disputed payment didnt consume all of 
the funds in As account  which might have been an indicator it was at risk of fraud. The 
payment was to a new payee, but this alone wouldnt have given Lloyds much cause for 
concern. Moreover, as pointed out by the investigator, A didnt speak to or interact with 
Lloyds staff at the time of the payment. So, it isnt the case that the bank missed an 
opportunity this way to identify that the payment was being made in relation to a scam.
For these reasons, I dont think the payment would have stood out as being particularly 
unusual or suspicious compared to As normal account activity. So, I dont think Lloyds acted 
unreasonably by following As instructions without further enquiries about the payment.
Irrespective of the above, on some occasions, it is possible to consider whether a customer 
should be reimbursed under the CRM code for such scams. However, the relevant 
transaction isnt covered by the code because it was an international payment. 
I have also considered whether Lloyds could have done more to recover the payment. I
can see that Lloyds immediately contacted the intermediary bank on being advised of the 
scam and followed it up with the intermediary and the receiving banks. So, I am satisfied that 
the bank did what it could in order to try and recover the payment. 
A has said that if the warnings required by CoP had been flagged when the payment was 
being set up, they would have halted the process and checked the bank details with their 
client's agent to confirm whether they had changed the receiving account. However, the 
warnings envisaged by COP were not raised and that led to A believing that the confirmation 
of the change of bank details was indeed from the agent. 
As mentioned by the investigator, the CoP doesnt apply to international transfers such as 
this. Whilst the payment instruction included the name of the intended payee, the unique 
identifier was IBAN. So, the payment would be made to the account so long as the IBAN 
was correct, which was the case here. 
It is clear that A was an unfortunate victim of a sophisticated scam. However, for the reasons 
outlined, I cant fairly say Lloyds should have done more to prevent their loss. So, it wouldnt 
be fair for me to ask the bank to reimburse the payment made by A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman