DRN-3574856
The complaint
Mr F complains about the way in which PSA Finance UK Limited managed his account. 
What happened
Mr F entered into a finance agreement with PSA. The first car was faulty, and Mr F was 
supplied with a replacement car, but didnt receive a new agreement. When the agreement 
was due to end, Mr F was worried that he had nothing in writing to show that he had made 
payments towards the replacement car so he withheld his balloon payment and asked PSA 
to amend his agreement to show the replacement cars details. Mr F says that instead of 
amending the agreement PSA sent an agent to repossess the car.
I issued a provisional decision in which I upheld the complaint. I said that PSA had failed to 
communicate with Mr F and explain to him that he wouldnt be getting a new agreement for 
the replacement car. I found that it was Mr Fs concerns about the agreement that led to him 
withholding his balloon payment. I said that if PSA had advised Mr F that his vehicle details 
had been amended on the existing agreement, I didnt think Mr F would have cancelled his 
direct debit or withheld his balloon payment. I found that the first time PSA advised Mr F that 
his agreement had been amended was after the balloon payment had fallen due, and that as 
a result of PSAs failure to communicate, Mr F had been caused worry about the payments 
he was making under the agreement for a period of around two years. I also found that all 
the issues regarding Mr Fs concerns about the car being repossessed stemmed from PSAs 
failure to communicate as clearly as it should have done.  I said that PSA should pay 
compensation of £250 to Mr F for the trouble and upset caused to him and remove any 
adverse entries from his credit file in relation to the agreement.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wished to make. 
Neither party has taken issue with my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has taken issue or made further comments on my provisional decision. 
Therefore, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that which I have set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
To put things right, PSA must pay compensation of £250 to Mr F.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. PSA Finance UK Limited must pay 
compensation of £250 to Mr F and remove any adverse entries relating to this agreement 
from Mr Fs credit file..
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman