DRN-3916507
The complaint
Mrs H (through a representative) has complained that Everyday Lending Limited trading as 
Everyday Loans (Everyday) was irresponsible in lending to her.
What happened
Mrs H was advanced two loans by Everyday and a summary of her borrowing can be found 
in the table below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
dateterm of 
loan 
(months)highest 
repayment
1 £2,000.00 17/04/2018 06/11/2019 24 £158.40
2 £5,000.00 06/11/2019 outstanding 48 £256.99
Some of loan 2, went towards repaying loan 1. 
Everyday responded to Mrs Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. Everyday concluded it had 
carried out proportionate checks before each loan was granted which included asking Mrs H 
for details of her income, expenditure, obtaining copy bank statements and doing a credit 
search. Everyday concluded these loans were affordable and therefore it hadnt made an 
error when they were advanced. 
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman where it was considered by an 
adjudicator. The adjudicator thought the complaint should be partly upheld. He thought 
Everyday ought to have carried out further checks before loan 1 was advanced because of 
the term, and Mrs H had recently had a County Court Judgement and a defaulted recorded 
against her. However, the adjudicator couldnt uphold this loan as he didnt have anything 
from Mrs H to show what her actual financial position was at the time. 
However, the adjudicator did uphold loan 2 because the bank statements provided to 
Everyday by Mrs H as part of her application showed a lower disposable income than for 
loan 1, and there were signs of financial struggle mainly due to the overdraft charges and 
the way she operated her bank account. 
Mrs Hs representative acknowledged the assessment, but no further comments were 
provided. 
Everyday didnt agree and in summary it said Mrs Hs overdraft was relativity small and she 
never exceeded it. There was also a lot of discretionary spending on the account which 
would suggest Mrs H wasnt having financial difficulties. 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, I think the 
overarching questions I need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs H would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs H would have been able to do so?
Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The rules and regulations in place required Everyday to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mrs Hs ability to make the repayments under the loan 
agreements. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Everyday had to think about whether 
repaying these loans would be sustainable. In practice this meant that the business had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mrs H undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to simply think about the likelihood of it getting 
its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mrs H. Checks also 
had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Hs complaint.
Neither Everyday nor Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators assessment 
about loan 1. And so, I no longer believe this loan to be in dispute and so I wont be making a finding about it. Instead, this decision will focus on whether Everyday should or should not 
have advanced loan 2. 
Loan 2
This loan was taken on the same day loan 1 was repaid, as around £685 of the funds 
advanced went towards repaying loan 1 and Everyday also issued a cheque for just over 
£1,500 which was to be used by Mrs H to repay the balance on her credit card. As part of 
her application, Mrs H told Everyday the loan was to be used to debt consolidate and to 
purchase a puppy. 
But Mrs H was borrowing more than twice the amount, over twice the term as loan 1, and 
her monthly repayments were also around £100 per month more. Ive kept this in mind when 
thinking about the checks Everyday carried out. 
As part of the application, Mrs H declared her employer and her monthly income. Everyday 
used a monthly income figure of £1,235.23  which it verified through reviewing her bank 
statements  so it knew this figure to be accurate. 
Everyday then calculated her monthly expenditure, taking into account the information Mrs H 
had provided (such as renting from parents), information from the Office and National 
Statistics (taking account the averages for someone in the same postcode, number of 
dependents and houseful status) and it then added a buffer to this amount to deal with any 
unexpected costs.  
Overall, when taking into account her living costs, her credit commitments following her 
credit card being repaid as well as her Everyday loan repayment, it calculated Mrs H was left 
with around £150 per month in disposable income. But this is a smaller amount of 
disposable income compared to Mrs Hs first loan and this loan was due to be repaid over a 
much longer period of time and was therefore a much larger commitment. 
A credit search was also carried out by Everyday and it has provided a summary of the 
results. These results showed a County Court Judgement was awarded against Mrs H in 
July 2017 and settled by December 2017. Everyday was also aware that Mrs H had three 
defaults recorded on her credit file and all three had been reported in 2018 and two of them 
had been reported within the year preceding loan two being advanced. 
Although the defaulted accounts were for relatively small sums, it does show that not that 
long before this loan was approved (and while she was repaying loan 1) Mrs H had, missed 
a sufficient number of payments on the two most recent defaults for action to have been 
taken by the credit providers. A sign, that Mrs H was likely having financial difficulties. 
While Everyday knew Mrs Hs overall indebtedness had reduced compared to loan 1, this 
loan, given its value was adding significant amounts of debt to Mrs H  even taking into 
account the consolidated credit card account. 
On its own, the credit search results werent enough to say that Everyday shouldnt have lent 
but taken with the other information that it had available, it was building a picture of someone 
who was likely to struggle to repay the loan sustainably.  
There were also some minor repayment issues on loan 1, for example in August 2018 when 
a repayment was returned as unpaid, but, Mrs H did make up these payments and there 
doesnt appear to have any further interest, fees or charges added to the account as a result 
of this. Everyday also calculated that after this loan was approved, Mrs H was committed to 
spending around 30% of her income each month just on credit commitments, and before any 
other costs that Mrs H had. This was a not an insignificant percentage and, in some cases, 
on its own would be a sufficiently high amount to lead me to conclude the loan was 
unsustainable for Mrs H. However, in this case, given what Everyday knew about her living 
arrangements I dont think this percentage (on its own) would be enough to uphold the 
complaint, but is something that Ive kept in mind when reviewing the bank statements.  
As part of the application process Everyday also gathered bank statements from Mrs H  it 
had statements from 1 September to 31 October 2019  two months before this loan was 
approved. In the bank statements I can see a similar pattern each month. Mrs H was 
overdrawn by payday by around £250 (and was incurring daily overdraft chargers  I accept 
these are no more than 38 pence per day but towards the end of the month, the majority of 
the bank statements entries relate to charges). 
Then Mrs H received her salary and settles her bills such as rent, credit card, car insurance 
and repaying a family member who she had borrowed money from. After these payments, 
Mrs H was left with very little around £100 - £150 to get her through the rest of the month 
within days of being paid. Although, she may have had a small overdraft limit, Mrs H would 
be making use of this facility fairly quickly after being paid. In my view, this wasnt and isnt a 
sustainable situation. 
On top of what Everyday could see in the bank statements, there is also the issue of the 
defaults that were applied a year before, and there is nothing to suggest that Mrs H had 
either repaid the balances or was in the process of making arrangements to clear what she 
owed. 
Overall, I do think, given what the bank statements show, the credit check results and 
thinking about the commitment Mrs H was entering into, there wouldve been a real risk that 
making the commitment for four years was unsustainable in the long term. Therefore, I do 
think Everyday was wrong to have granted this loan. 
Ive outlined below what Everyday needs to do in order to put things right.
 
Putting things right
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs H to repay the principal amount that she borrowed in 
respect of Loan 2, because shes had the benefit of that lending. But as I have concluded 
Everyday shouldnt have provided this loan, it should look to remove the interest and fees 
from the amounts due under the loan agreement. 
If Everyday has sold the outstanding debt, it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debt, it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined below.
Everyday should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2;
treat any payments made by Mrs H as payments towards the capital amount;
If Mrs H has paid more than the capital then any overpayments should be refunded 
to her with 8%* simple interest from the date they were paid to the date of 
settlement,But if theres still an outstanding balance, Everyday should come to a reasonable 
repayment plan with Mrs H and I would remind it of its obligation to treat her fairly 
and with forbearance if necessary; and
remove any negative information about loan 2 from Mrs Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday to deduct tax from this interest. Everyday 
should give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint in part and require Everyday 
Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to put things right as detailed above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman