The complaint
Mrs S complains about the service she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
particularly in relation to her attempts to transfer money from her account, and the time she 
spent on the telephone with Barclays agents.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mrs S and Barclays, so there is no need for me to repeat it all again here in 
any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of 
direct relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mrs S had an Everyday Saver account with Barclays and in July 2019 it wrote to her 
advising that as the account had not been used for some time she should take certain steps 
to avoid it being closed automatically in October 2019. Mrs S went into branch in August 
2019 in order to transfer the funds to a new account, but was unable to because she did not 
have the right identification. In particular, she did not have any photo ID. She was told that 
she would need to return with the correct ID in order to make the transfer. 
Mrs S complained about the service she received but when Barclays investigated, it did not 
believe it had done anything wrong. It did however offer Mrs S a bottle of champagne as a 
good will gesture which she accepted.
Mrs S was however unhappy with Barclayss final response and so brought the complaint to 
this service which our investigator looked into. Having done so, the investigator didnt think 
that Barclays had done anything wrong. Mrs S didnt agree with that and asked that the 
complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Barclays acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence.  I 
have to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats 
what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that Barclays has done anything wrong. Ill 
explain why.
DRN-1489529The letter Barclays wrote to Mrs S in July 2019 was very clear, telling her what she needed 
to do to avoid the account being closed in October 2019. I cannot say that Barclays acted 
unreasonably in sending this letter as they are permitted by the terms and conditions to 
close customers accounts if they wish to. 
When Mrs S did ring Barclays, that being one of the options the letter instructed her to do, it 
was unable to help her because her identity could not be verified over the phone. As I 
understand it that was because her account information was not up to date. Barclays asked 
Mrs S to go into the branch, and again I find that reasonable.
However when Mrs S did visit the branch, Barclays were unable to effect her transfer 
request as she did not have photographic ID. Because the amount she wished to transfer 
was a large sum Barclays insisted on having the right identification documentation in 
accordance with their procedures. 
Mrs S has explained that she has neither a passport nor driving licence, because she does 
not need them, and so was unable to comply with Barclays request. However despite that I 
do think it reasonable for Barclays to require sufficient proof of identity from their customers 
in order to safeguard their funds. So I think it was reasonable to expect Mrs S to provide 
satisfactory identification documentation. The case notes do record that Barclays also 
advised Mrs S that she could make a small transfer in order to keep the account open, but 
she declined to do that.
With nothing further being heard from Mrs S until after Barclays had transferred her funds 
into a secure holding in October 2019, I cant say that Barclays acted unreasonably or 
unfairly, because they had told Mrs S what she needed to do and she hadnt done it. 
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures. We only look at what happened in the 
circumstances of the individual complaint and check that it followed its rules and procedures 
and is applying them fairly to all customers. The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) takes a 
principles-based approach to conduct regulation and lets businesses choose how they 
incorporate those principles into the way they deal with customers. Any overall concerns 
about business process would need to be raised with the FCA.   
I cannot say that in the circumstances of this case, Barclays have done anything wrong. Mrs 
S was advised of what was required of her to keep the account open, and what was required 
in order to make the transfer, and she was given an option which would have kept the 
account open. So, although Mrs S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say 
Barclays has acted unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman