DRN-3674205
The complaint
Miss S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) have failed to refund over 
£36,000 she lost as part of an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Miss S authorised the disputed payments she made to the various 
merchants (including Ravebyflutterwave, Tran*tou and Transferwise) through her 
Natwest debit card and online banking (where her funds were subsequently transferred 
on to the scammer). The payments were requested using her legitimate security 
credentials provided by Natwest, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Natwest should have done more to prevent Miss S 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character.
Having reviewed the initial payments made by Miss S, I dont think these were enough in 
themselves to have warranted an intervention by Natwest. The merchants had no 
regulatory warnings issued about them, and they were not so unusual as to amount to a 
significant deviation in the way the account was normally run. I can see for example, that 
Miss S had made several previous payments in excess of £1,000 in the months leading 
up to the scam. So, the payments she made between 21 June 2019 and 2 July 2019 
would not have appeared particularly unusual or indicated that she was at risk of 
financial harm.
However, by the time Miss S came to make the payment of £20,000 on 3 July 2019, I 
think this ought to have prompted an intervention, as it was significantly higher than the 
usual payments she made from the account. But even if Natwest had intervened at this 
point and asked further questions about the nature of the payments she was making, Im 
not persuaded it would have likely stopped her from proceeding or have ultimately 
prevented her loss. Ill explain why.
Miss S said she discovered the investment through her mother, (who was seemingly also 
scammed). She says her mother appeared to be making good returns, and has also 
been able to make a couple of withdrawals of her profits, so she believed the merchant 
and investment to be genuine. Miss S also received a credit from the scammer herself, 
which would have further led her to believe that the investment was genuine. So, I dont 
think any warning from the bank would have stopped her from making the payments. 
There were also no warnings on the FCA website relating to the scammer, and neither 
was there anything on the IOSCO investor alerts portal. I also cant see that there would 
have been any other negative reviews of the merchant online at the time either, So, as 
well as believing the merchant was genuine for the reasons set out above, she also 
wouldnt have found any warnings about them if the bank had warned her and advised 
that she should carry out further checks. 
Therefore, even if Natwest had intervened and provided Miss S with a scam warning, Im 
not persuaded that any further checks she could have carried out would have revealed 
that she was likely being scammed, and she would have continued to believe it was 
legitimate for the reasons Ive set out above. As a result, I dont think Natwests failure to 
intervene can reasonably be considered as the proximate cause of Miss Ss loss in these 
circumstances, as it seems likely she would have proceeded to make the transactions 
irrespective of any intervention by the bank.
Ive also thought about whether Natwest could have done more to recover the funds after 
Miss S reported the fraud, as in some circumstances the money can be recovered via 
the bank raising a chargeback dispute. It isnt clear whether Miss Ss debit card is 
provided by Visa or Mastercard. But in any event  for the debit card payments she 
made  I havent seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate that a chargeback wouldve 
succeeded under either of these providers schemes. So, I do not think Natwest were 
under any obligation to pursue chargeback claims for the payments Miss S made.
I also acknowledge that the payments made to TransferWise were paid via online 
transfer. However, Natwest would not be under any obligation to refund these payments 
to Miss S under the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code either, as the Code 
does not apply to payments which the payer has effectively made to themselves (which 
would be the case here given the payments were made to Miss Ss TransferWise 
account before being moved on to the scammer).  
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Miss S, and Im sorry to hear she 
has been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Natwest liable for her loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman