DRN-4324614
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs C have complained that, due to an error made by Santander UK Plc, 
completion of their mortgage and house purchase didnt take place on the date that had 
been set for completion.
To settle the complaint, Mr A and Mrs C would like Santander to compensate them, not only 
for their own expenses, but for an additional £1,000 they paid their vendor due to the delay.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, Santander has accepted that 
compensation is payable, so I dont need to analyse the events in detail to decide whether 
the bank is at fault; all I need to determine is what compensation should be paid. Finally, our 
decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to 
Mr A and Mrs C being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving 
the reasons for my decision.
On 22 August 2023 I issued a provisional decision, as follows:
Moving house is a stressful experience, even when everything goes smoothly  and 
especially when there is a chain of buyers and sellers. Santander has acknowledged 
that the mortgage funds werent sent to Mr A and Mrs Cs solicitors in time for 
completion of their purchase. This meant completion didnt take place until the 
following day. I have no doubt this was a very stressful and upsetting 24 hours for 
Mr A and Mrs C.
Mr A and Mrs C incurred expenses in relation to additional storage and moving costs, 
and overnight accommodation. They also paid their seller £1,000 for the trouble and 
inconvenience to which they had been put.
Following our investigators recommendation, Santander has agreed to reimburse 
Mr A and Mrs C with their additional moving costs of £816, as well as the cost of the 
overnight accommodation (£105.99). Santander also accepted that its actions had 
caused distress and inconvenience, and agreed to pay £300 for this.
The only sticking point is that Mr A and Mrs C said theyd paid their seller £1,000 to 
compensate them for the upset caused, and they believe Santander should also 
reimburse this. Our investigator didnt think this was something for which Santander 
should be responsible  and neither did the bank. 
Ive looked at what Mr A and Mrs C have said about this. Theyve said they were in 
contract with their seller, who also incurred additional costs as a result of 
Mr A and Mrs C being in breach of contract. They therefore consider Santander 
should be responsible for these damages. Mr A and Mrs C said they didnt pay their 
sellers partners costs, as they didnt have a contract with him.
Mr A and Mrs C were bound by the contract theyd entered into to purchase the 
property. The completion date was fixed for 10 August 2022. Because the mortgage 
funds werent received in time, that then put Mr A and Mrs C in breach of contract, 
through no fault of their own. 
The Law Societys Standard Conditions of Sale, which governed this sale and 
purchase, deals with late completion at clause 7.2. Standard Condition 7.2.2 states 
that compensation for late completion is to be calculated at the contract rate and is 
payable on an amount equal to the purchase price, less the deposit paid for the 
period of default. Standard Condition 1.1.1(e) defines the contract rate as being the 
Law Societys interest rate from time to time in force, although the parties may 
substitute a different rate by special condition. The Law Societys interest rate is 4% 
above Bank of England Base Rate.
Although the Standard Conditions of Sale do not require the buyer to pay 
compensation in relation to the sellers out of pocket expenses or the knock-on 
effects on any related transactions, the parties can include an additional condition 
providing for this. Otherwise, if there is no additional condition, an action for damages 
for breach of contract could be brought, albeit subject to Standard Condition 7.2.3 
that provides that any claim for loss resulting from delayed completion is to be 
reduced by any compensation paid under the contract.
The purchase price was £535,000 and on 10 August 2022 (the date completion 
should have taken place), the Law Societys interest rate was 5.75%. Assuming the 
standard 10% deposit had been paid, this would mean interest would be calculated 
on £481,500. This would give a daily rate of interest of £75.85 (£481,500 x 5.75%  
365). 
Because £75.85 would not, I find, have adequately compensated Mr A and Mrs Cs 
vendor for their additional expenses, Mr A and Mrs C were at risk of a claim for 
damages for breach of contract. I do not know if their contract provided specifically 
for them to reimburse the sellers expenses if completion was delayed, but it matters 
not; there is no doubt Mr A and Mrs C were in breach of contract by not completing 
on the day, and so were at risk of a claim for damages, whether or not it was 
specifically detailed in the contract. Given this, I find it was reasonable for 
Mr A and Mrs C to have mitigated their position and paid their seller £1,000 
compensation in order to avoid such a claim.
If I am to find Santander liable for the additional costs incurred by Mr A and Mrs C, I 
have to be satisfied that they were reasonably foreseeable. Im satisfied that, where 
the purchase of a property using a Santander mortgage didnt take place on the day 
of completion as a result of an error by Santander, it is reasonably foreseeable that 
the sellers, as well as the buyers, would incur expenses  as they were unable to 
complete on their own purchase on the due date. 
The breach of contract by Mr A and Mrs C only occurred because of Santanders 
error. But for that error, Mr A and Mrs C would not have incurred any of these 
expenses  which includes the payment they made to their seller in order to stave off 
a claim for breach of contract.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that additional expense of the £1,000 payment 
incurred by Mr A and Mrs C in compensating their seller in order to avoid a claim for 
damages for breach of contract is an expense that I think Santander should reimburse. It flows directly from Santanders error and is a reasonably foreseeable 
consequence of that error.
I thought Santander should pay the following:
additional moving expenses of £816; (A)
overnight accommodation costs of £105.99; (B)
upon production of evidence of the payment of £1,000 by Mr A and Mrs C to their 
sellers, reimburse this amount to Mr A and Mrs C; (C)
pay interest at 8% per annum simple on A+B+C from the date of payment of each of 
A, B and C to the date of reimbursement (D);
pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £300.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the file from the outset and revisited my provisional decision. Because the 
parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I have already reached. 
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Santander UK Plc must do the following:
pay Mr A and Mrs Cs additional moving expenses of £816; (A)
pay Mr A and Mrs Cs overnight accommodation costs of £105.99; (B)
upon production of evidence of the payment of £1,000 by Mr A and Mrs C to their sellers, 
reimburse this amount to Mr A and Mrs C; (C)
pay interest at 8% per annum simple on A+B+C from the date of payment of each of A, B 
and C to the date of reimbursement (D);*
pay compensation for distress and inconvenience of £300.
* If Santander considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income 
tax from any interest, it should tell Mr A and Mrs C how much it has taken off. Santander 
should also give Mr A and Mrs C a tax deduction certificate if requested, so the tax can be 
reclaimed from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Santander UK Plc to settle the 
complaint as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman