DRN-3431802
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy that Society of Lloyds didnt provide appropriate assistance under the legal
expenses insurance (LEI) section of her professional indemnity insurance policy (the
policy) when making it aware that she was facing a regulatory investigation.
What happened
During the early part of 2019 Ms B was suspended by the business she was working for at
the time. The working relationship subsequently ended because it concluded that she
had made some inappropriate claims.
The business she was working for subsequently made a referral to a particular public body
(the public body) and at a meeting on 16 May 2019 (the meeting), the decision was taken
to refer Ms B for counter fraud investigation and to a particular decisions panel.
Prior to attending the meeting, Ms B contacted Lloyds for assistance. But ultimately, cover
wasnt provided to appoint a legal representative to help Ms B respond to the allegations
against her. She was, however, referred to the policy legal helpline.
After the meeting, and at her own cost, to ensure that she could continue to find
and carry out work, Ms B instructed a lawyer to provide a voluntary undertaking making
certain disclosures  including informing any prospective businesses she was engaged by
about the matters being investigated. This was accepted and the undertaking was
subsequently amended many months later.
At the start of 2020, Ms B made a claim on the policy for legal representation in relation to
professional disciplinary proceedings she was subject to. That claim was subsequently
declined in around March 2020 on the basis that the circumstances she wanted cover for
wasnt an insured event under the policy.
Ms B continued to contest the reasons put forward not to cover her claim, and additional
reasons were put forward by Lloyds to decline it.
Ms B didnt think shed been treated fairly by Lloyds so raised various concerns. Ultimately,
on 27 July 2020, Lloyds concluded that it should investigate further whether the claim was
covered as an insured event under the policy and said it would arrange for one of its panel
law firms (the panel firm) to advise on this issue.
The panel law firm promptly confirmed the reasons why it considered Ms Bs claim did
amount to an insured event. Indemnity was then put in place under the policy. And the
claims against Ms B were ultimately dropped later in 2020.
Ms B is unhappy about the way shes been treated by Lloyds.
Our investigator looked into what happened and she didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. She
didnt think Lloyds had to do anything more.
Ms B raised additional concerns; that it had taken around seven months for Lloyds to confirm
that her claim was covered under the policy from when she made the claim in early 2020.
Lloyds offered her £600 for any distress and inconvenience caused. Ms B says thats
inadequate, and shed like more compensation.
That complaint is being determined under a separate complaint reference. However, in
response to a provisional determination that has been made in that complaint, Ms B has
raised additional points that are more relevant to this complaint. In summary shes said:
- Its likely the allegations against her wouldve been dropped at the meeting had she 
had legal representation under the policy to assist preparing her response.
- She lost work  and considerable income  because of further action being taken 
against her at the meeting.
I issued my provisional decision in March 2022 explaining why I was intending to partially 
uphold this complaint. I confirmed that I was only considering the circumstances of this
particular complaint. And although I was aware of another complaint brought to our Service 
by Ms B - the circumstances of which overlapped somewhat with this complaint - I explained 
that Id focused on what happened between May 2019 and December 2019. And having 
done so, I explained why I intended to direct Lloyds to pay Ms B £400 in compensation.
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below:
In its final response letter dated 3 December 2019 Lloyds accepts that the service Ms B
received following her request for advice and assistance when first being notified of the
allegations against her about submitting inappropriate claims on 2 May 2019 was
unsatisfactory. It accepts that she shouldve been directed to the correct point of contact and
recommended she be paid £100 in compensation for this.
The final response letter also reflects (subject to the remaining terms of the policy) the policy
does provide cover for her legal expenses in connection with professional hearings.
However, its not clear why Lloyds didnt consider whether cover was available when Ms B
first contacted it for support shortly after receiving notification of the allegations  rather than
being wrongly referred to another company for support, only to be told that that company no
longer manages claims under the policy. And then being referred on to the law firm who
operated the legal support helpline on behalf of Lloyds under the policy.
Based on the allegations against Ms B and knowing that the allegations were being
considered at a meeting on 16 May 2019, I think it shouldve considered whether cover was
in place to assist with Ms Bs preparations for the meeting.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether what would most likely have happened if her claim was
considered at that point. In all likelihood, Im satisfied Lloyds wouldve declined cover under
the policy on the basis that  in its view - Ms B wasnt facing a regulatory investigation as
defined by the policy. Thats the position it took and maintained for a considerable period of
time once Ms B did make a claim under the policy after the final response letter dated
December 2019.
However, by its own later admission, that position was unfair and unreasonable, and it later
accepted that Ms B was involved in a regulatory investigation, based on the advice of the
panel firm.So, had Lloyds declined to cover the claim and declined to appoint a legal representative to
represent Ms B at the time of first making it aware of the allegations against her  which she
was required to respond to  it wouldve acted unfair and unreasonably.
Therefore, I think the crux of the issue I have to decide is what most likely wouldve
happened if cover had been confirmed under the policy shortly after 2 May 2019. Its
possible that a legal representative wouldnt have been appointed in time to consider the
nature of the allegations against Ms B and substantially assist her when responding ahead
of the deadline of 9 May 2019. Afterall, Ms B had only been given seven days to respond to
the allegations. Its also possible that a legal representative wouldve successfully been able
to request a postponement of the meeting on 16 May 2020 and an extension to the deadline
to respond to the allegations.
However, even if Lloyds had appointed a legal representative in time to assist Ms B to
respond to the allegations, Im not persuaded on the balance of probabilities that the
outcome of the meeting of 16 May 2019 wouldve been any different.
Ms B was able to respond to the allegations by the deadline of 9 May 2018. The letter dated
20 May 2019 setting out the actions required as a result of the meeting which took place on
16 May 2019 reflects that Ms Bs response was very comprehensive. And Ive seen the
letter she provided along with the many appendices.
However, it goes on to say that the group who considered Ms Bs representations did not
feel that the concerns had been adequately addressed and decided to refer the matter to
Counter Fraud for formal investigation and also to a particular panel to consider imposing
formal conditions whilst the Counter Fraud investigation was ongoing.
I think the letter makes clear that based on Ms Bs comprehensive representations she
hadnt been able to alleviate the groups concerns that shed acted inappropriately when
making claims. The advice she ended up receiving from the legal helpline provided by the
policy was to respond honestly to the allegations and Ms B said during that call that shed
identified a couple of claims that might not have been correct.
I know Ms B says shes aware of other cases involving other individuals in her profession
which didnt progress after such a meeting as theyd had representation. However, I dont
think it automatically follows that the allegations against Ms B wouldve been dropped had
she received legal support when making her representations.
Ms B has told our Service on 15 July 2021 that she feels there was a 50/50 chance of the
meeting on 16 May 2019 going in her favour had she been represented.
Ms B has provided our Service with a letter from the law firm she ultimately instructed to
represent her after the meeting on 16 May 2019, dated 21 May 2019. It reflects:
Given how much youve told [the public body] Id be surprised if the counter fraud
investigators thought it worth interviewing you, but well have to see. No-one can
criticise you for not being transparent!
Ms Bs also provided our Service with a letter dated 26 August 2020 from the panel firm who
was ultimately appointed by Lloyds to represent her at the end of July 2020. This letter was
in relation to the ongoing investigation. It reflects:
From what I have seen, it appears to be a very minor allegation and I would be
surprised if the investigation proceeded further."But Im not persuaded that either of these letters support that if she had been legally
represented when initially preparing her response to the allegations that they wouldve been
dropped at the meeting on 16 May 2019.
I also note that after the letter dated 20 May 2019 Ms B did instruct a lawyer at her own cost
to support her with further representations. But the allegations werent dropped until the end
of 2020.
As Im satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the same actions wouldve been taken
after the meeting on 16 May 2019 whether or not Ms B had been legally supported when
responding to the allegations against her, Im also satisfied that the same sequence of
events wouldve followed.
I know Ms B had other work lined up when being notified of the allegations against her. And,
as a result, that offer of work was withdrawn and she says she lost a golden hello payment
of £5,000. I also know that she ended up having to inform prospective employers of the
ongoing allegations against her which also made it hard for her to find work for a period of
almost three months. I can appreciate this wouldve been a very difficult and worrying time
for her, particularly as she says she had a child who depended on her and no family nearby.
I also understand why she felt unemployable. During that time, she says she was without a
regular income and she had to take out loans to help with her living costs.
Ive no reason to doubt what she says about that. However, as Im satisfied that she was
likely to have been in the same position even if shed received legal support when initially
responding to the allegations, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold
Lloyds responsible for the situation she found herself in.
Ms B did incur around £2,000 in legal costs between 21 May 2021 and the end of December
2019 which she paid for herself. Had Lloyds covered the claim at the outset, and had
arranged legal representation for her under the policy, Ms B wouldnt have been responsible
for those costs. However, in November 2020, Lloyds reimbursed Ms B for these legal fees
together with simple interest at 8% per annum. Thats in line with what I wouldve reasonably
expected it to have done.
Lloyds has also offered Ms B £100 compensation for mis-directing her under the policy
shortly after being notified of the allegations against Ms B in early May 2019. But I dont think
this is enough to fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience Ms B experienced as a result of
what Lloyds did wrong here.
I accept that this wouldve been a very stressful time for Ms B, particularly as she was out of
work, without a regular income for a period and facing allegations which were being
investigated by the Counter Fraud. I dont think Lloyds are reasonably responsible for any of
these things.
However, Im satisfied Ms Bs distress wouldve been unnecessarily exacerbated by having
to find the money necessary to pay for her own legal costs during 2019, particularly during
the time when she out of work. Im also satisfied that having some legal support when
responding to the allegations prior to 9 May 2019 wouldve alleviated some of the stress she
was feeling and having legal representation at the outset wouldve avoided the
inconvenience of having to find and instruct her own lawyer to represent her.
Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds replied setting out its comments around why the compensation for distress and 
inconvenience Id provisionally directed Lloyds to pay in this complaint might relate to the other complaint shes bought to our Service - and for which its already offered £600 in 
respect of.
Ms B replied raising several points, some of which shed raised previously and have already 
been considered by me when making my provisional decision. Ms B has also provided some 
press articles which she says reflects that the allegations against her were comparatively 
minor. Shes also said that shes made a request to the public body under the Freedom of 
Information Act 2000 and shes asked that I wait for the outcome of this request before 
finalising my decision. 
Ms B has also said having her complaint split into two dilutes the seriousness of how she 
sees Lloyds neglect and failure to represent her over the period covered by the two 
complaints (starting Spring 2019 to Summer 2020).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done, I partially uphold it. The further comments and information provided to me by 
the parties dont impact my provisional findings or decision, which Ive set out above. Thats 
because:
I dont think it was inappropriate to deal with Ms Bs complaints as separate 
complaints covering the period Spring 2019 to the end of 2019 and early 2020 to the 
summer of 2020. And I dont think shes been disadvantaged by this. Her concerns 
have been addressed and Ive considered the totality of the information over the 
entire timeframe to ensure that the relevant evidence and arguments have been 
considered in respect of this complaint.
I dont agree with Lloyds that the compensation I proposed it pay to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience experienced by Ms B as a result of what it did wrong in 
early May 2019 potentially related to the other complaint Ms B has brought to our 
service about Lloyds  and for which its already paid £600 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. In my provisional decision, I explained - based on the 
allegations against Ms B and knowing that the allegations were being considered at 
the meeting - I was intending to find that it shouldve considered whether cover was 
in place under the policy to assist with Ms Bs preparations for the meeting. I havent 
been provided with any information which alters my thinking on that point.
But even if Lloyds had appointed a legal representative in time to assist Ms B to 
respond to the allegations, Im still not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, 
that the outcome of the meeting wouldve been any different. 
Ms B has referred to a request under the Freedom of Information Act to ascertain the 
number of matters referred to type of panel meeting where the allegations against 
her were discussed in May 2019 and how many of those are then referred on. She 
says she made this request to support her submission that if shed been represented 
- or received better expert support in respect of the meeting  its unlikely that the 
onward referral wouldve been made. However, Ms B has confirmed that request was 
turned down by the public body for being too wide. So, shes now made a further 
request narrowing down the information requested. However, I dont think the 
information request Ms B has made is relevant to the issue Im determining. Even if a 
large proportion of cases arent referred on as a result of the meeting, I dont think it means that had Ms B been represented in respect of the meeting, its more likely 
than not that her case wouldnt have been referred on. The letter Ms B was sent after 
the meeting makes clear that Ms B made comprehensive representations but she 
hadnt been able to alleviate the groups concerns that shed acted inappropriately 
when making claims. And for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I dont 
think being represented is, on the balance of probabilities, likely to have resulted in a 
different outcome.
Ms B says if shed had specialist support to prepare her submissions, she believes 
an essential part of her submissions wouldve been stronger and a further referral 
wouldnt have been made. She says the panel attributed more weight to that section 
of her submissions and thats the section  which if shed had expert support with  
its unlikely the matter wouldve been referred on. She says her solicitor identified it 
as a weakness/pre-requisite of her submission and she believes this wouldve been 
identified before making her final submissions if shed had expert support then. I 
appreciate that this is Ms Bs view, but I havent seen any evidence from her legal 
representative - or otherwise - which supports that this was the case. And the 
information shes requested from the public body wouldnt shed any light on the 
individual circumstances of her case.
So for the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to hold Lloyds responsible for Ms B ultimately losing work as a result 
of the outcome of the meeting, and not being able to secure work for several months after. 
However, I still think she experienced unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result of 
what Lloyds did wrong earlier in May 2019 by not considering whether cover was in place 
under the policy to assist with Ms Bs preparations for the meeting then. To summarise that 
distress included finding the money necessary to pay for her own legal costs during 2019, 
particularly during the time when she out of work. Im also satisfied that having some legal 
support when responding to the allegations to the May 2019 meeting wouldve alleviated 
some of the stress she was feeling. And having legal representation at the outset wouldve 
avoided the inconvenience of having to find and instruct her own lawyer to represent her.
Putting things right
Im satisfied that Lloyds should pay Ms B £400 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience she experienced because of what it did wrong, and the impact this had on
her between the period May and December 2019 inclusive. 
That includes the £100 its already offered Ms B in its final response letter dated 3 December 
2019. So, if that amount has been paid, Lloyds can deduct this from the £400 Ive directed it 
to pay.
To be clear, this award is separate to any compensation Lloyds has offered in respect of the
other complaint Ms B has raised in respect of issues stemming from early 2020.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Society of Lloyds to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
David Curtis-JohnsonOmbudsman