DRN-2193554
The complaint
Miss R complains that Charter Court Financial Services Limited applied an unfairly high early 
repayment charge (ERC) when she repaid her mortgage. Miss R would like the ERC shes 
paid to be refunded to her. 
What happened
In 2017 Miss R took out a mortgage with CCFS having received advice from a mortgage 
broker. She borrowed around £262,000 over 35 years on a capital repayment basis. The 
mortgage had a two year fixed rate of 3.95% and there was an ERC to be paid if the 
mortgage was repaid within the term of the fixed rate product.
In 2019 Miss R contacted CCFS. She wanted to find out how much her ERC would be and 
when it would no longer apply. Miss R was planning to move to a different property and her 
mortgage wasnt portable. Miss R says she was disappointed to find out that her ERC would 
be around £5,000- equating to 2% of the amount of the capital borrowed- if she repaid the 
mortgage before the end of the fixed rate. Miss R queried the amount and how it could cost 
CCFS that much in lost profits as she was weeks away from the end of her interest rate 
product. Miss R felt CCFS made no attempt to explain its costs to her.
Miss R complained to CCFS but it didnt uphold her complaint. Miss R was dissatisfied with 
CCFS response and brought the matter to us.
Our investigator looked into Miss Rs complaint. He didnt think the complaint should 
succeed. He was satisfied with the explanations given by CCFS to us, and the information it 
had shared with us to demonstrate the ERC costs applied to Miss Rs mortgage equated to a 
reasonable pre-estimate of its costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss R has said she was confused about how the ERC worked on her mortgage because of 
the information in the mortgage offer. Miss R said shed thought the cash figure in the 
mortgage offer were only illustrations and that the amount of an ERC would vary depending 
on when the mortgage was repaid. I see the point that Miss R is making. Im mindful that the 
mortgage was sold by a broker who would have explained the features of the mortgage and 
how it operated. I would have expected terms such as when an ERC would apply, and the 
fact the mortgage wasnt portable, to have been explained by the broker. 
Ive also looked closely at the term and the way it is expressed in Miss Rs mortgage 
agreement. I think the way the ERC operates is made reasonably clear in the mortgage 
offer. Ive also considered the information in Miss Rs annual mortgage statement to see if 
mention was made of the ERC, and the period in which it applied. The annual statement 
says that the ERC will no longer apply after 29 June 2019, and if the mortgage is repaid 
before that time then an ERC of around £5,200 is payable. This information was also given 
to Miss R when she called CCFS to ask about the ERC in 2019 before repaying the 
mortgage.
Overall, Im satisfied that CCFS set out the ERC clearly in the mortgage offer, and that 
consistent information was given about the level of the charge and the date at which it would 
no longer apply. 
Miss R says she knew that there was an ERC on her mortgage, although she was unsure 
exactly what the figure would be if she settled the loan so near to the end of the fixed rate 
term. Miss R has said she feels it wasnt fair or reasonable in her specific circumstances for 
CCFS to apply it so close to the end of the two year product. In this case Miss R says she 
repaid the mortgage only weeks away from the end of the fixed rate period, after which time 
the ERC would no longer have been applicable.
In such a situation it may have been possible for Miss R to have delayed the sale of her 
property by the weeks needed to prevent the ERC being applicable. This way she could 
have mitigated her financial loss. But Miss Rs said it wasnt possible for her to delay the sale 
or she risked losing the property she was buying. 
I can see the dilemma that Miss R faced, and why the situation was stressful for her. I also 
see why she questioned the reasonableness of the amount of ERC she faced paying, and 
why she asked CCFS for more information about this charge. 
Was the ERC a reasonable pre-estimate of cost?
Miss Rs said she doesnt feel that CCFS has made a satisfactory explanation to her of how 
its ERC is calculated and why it was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to CCFS of her 
repaying her mortgage only weeks before the product expired. 
CCFS has shared information with us about how it has calculated its losses on a book of 
mortgages taken out around the time of Miss Rs mortgage and with a variety of interest rate 
products. As our investigator has explained, we are not at liberty to share this commercially 
sensitive information with her. But Im able to summarise what it shows and how this affects 
the outcome of Miss Rs complaint. 
When borrowers repay a mortgage early, the lender wont receive the income it was 
anticipating, and needs to service its own borrowing. It can insure against that in various 
ways, but theres a cost either to having the borrowing end early  or to protect against those 
costs. As a result, fixed rate mortgages  not just with CCFS, but across the industry  
include a clause in the mortgage agreement which allows the borrower to exit the mortgage 
early  but only in return for paying an ERC. The purpose of the ERC is to compensate the 
lender for the early end of the fixed rate period. 
Mortgage regulation includes provisions about ERCs. In summary, the rules say that an ERC 
must be able to be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs resulting from early termination of the mortgage. Subject to that, theres no 
restriction on how a lender calculates its ERC. And, crucially, a lender is allowed to estimate 
the risk and costs of early termination across a group of mortgages; it doesnt have to do so 
on an individual basis.
CCFS can calculate its ERCs based on a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs of early 
termination of a group of mortgages  not on the actual cost, or estimated cost, of Miss R 
ending her individual mortgage early.In practice, it cant be known at the time the mortgage is taken out whether an individual 
borrower will or will not end their fixed rate early, and if so when. So CCFS couldnt estimate 
in advance the costs of ending this particular mortgage early. But CCFS can estimate how 
many borrowers, on average, will do so  and apply those costs across a group of 
mortgages. The price of the mortgage, both the interest rate and the ERC, are set at a level 
that allows the lender to recover its costs and operate its business.
CCFS has sent us information about how its pre-estimate of loss on mortgages of the type 
Miss R held was calculated. Its done so in confidence.  Our rules allow either party to a 
complaint to submit evidence in confidence. Its then for us to decide if its fair to rely on it 
when deciding the outcome. CCFS has given us information about how it funds its 
mortgages, how its business is organised, and what its various costs are. That information is 
commercially sensitive and confidential. But its also material and highly relevant to this 
complaint. So, Im satisfied that its appropriate for me to receive it in confidence, subject to 
me summarising it. 
In summary, the information shows that theres a cost to CCFS in raising the funds it lends, 
and in carrying out the activities around lending, including protecting itself against market 
movements while the funds are lent. Those costs are recovered from the lending. CCFS 
allocates that cost across its mortgages factoring in an estimate of how many will end before 
their fixed rates expire. It then uses that estimate to set the ERC which is built in to every 
mortgage  in the expectation that if the predicted number of mortgages end early, overall 
the ERCs generated will cover the costs to CCFS of early termination.
The ERC Miss R paid isnt designed to reflect any losses CCFS incurred because she repaid 
her mortgage early. Miss R may be right that those losses are less than the ERC. But thats 
not relevant to whether the ERC was set fairly  because, as the rules allow, its set to 
generate an estimated share of the overall losses across the group of mortgages, not the 
actual individual losses on that one. Thats something specifically allowed for in the 
regulators rules, so I dont think its an unfair approach.
 
I understand why Miss R is frustrated that her lender hasnt persuaded her that the ERC it 
applied was a reasonable pre-estimate of its cost. The matter is complex, and involves 
books of mortgage loans, hedging instruments and other detailed commercial calculations 
carried out by the lender.  I hope our investigation and my explanation has given Miss R 
some reassurance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Emma Peters
Ombudsman