DRN-3418360
The complaint
Mr P complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited trading as 
Hargreaves Lansdown (HLAM) unreasonably rejected his application to open a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP). And he complains that HLAM refused to provide 
him with its reasons for the rejection of his application.
What happened
In April 2021 Mr P made an online application to HLAM to open a new SIPP. He says that he 
intended to use the SIPP to receive pension contributions from both him and his employer. 
Around a week later HLAM told Mr P that it was rejecting his application.
Mr P complained to HLAM about its decision. He said that he considered his credit 
worthiness to be impeccable. So he asked for the reasons why his application had been 
rejected. HLAM replied to Mr P that its terms and conditions made it clear that it was able to 
reject any application. And those terms also said that HLAM was not obliged to provide any 
reasons for doing so. Mr P was unhappy with that response so brought his complaint to this 
Service.
Mr Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. She thought that HLAMs 
decision to refuse the application had been made in accordance with its terms and 
conditions. And she didnt think the business had acted unfairly. So she didnt think the 
complaint should be upheld.
More recently Mr P has made us aware that HLAM has also refused to continue to provide a 
similar SIPP for his wife. He has asked that the complaint about that closure is dealt with 
alongside this complaint as he considers the SIPP to have been closed for the same 
reasons his application was refused.
Mr P didnt agree with our investigators assessment. So, as his complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last 
stage of our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by HLAM. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
I will first deal with the matter of the SIPP owned by Mr Ps wife. I dont consider that the 
closure of that SIPP has a direct impact on this complaint. I accept the reverse might be true 
 Mr Ps wifes SIPP might have been closed for the same reasons as his application was 
rejected. But, as Mr P has said he is aware, this Service deals with individual complaints 
based on their own merits. I am satisfied that it is reasonable to deal with Mr Ps complaint 
without consideration of what happened to his wife.
When he applied for the SIPP Mr P would have needed to confirm that he accepted the 
terms and conditions of the product that were set out on HLAMs website. So that should 
logically be the first information I assess in relation to this complaint.
The application process is covered in section A4 of the terms and conditions. The relevant 
text in that section says;
We may refuse your application or other instructions at our discretion and are not 
obliged to give you a reason for doing so.
So I think it is clear from that text that HLAM is under no obligation to accept an application. 
And so I cannot conclude that it has acted incorrectly by declining Mr Ps application.
HLAMs terms and conditions explain that it conducts a range of checks on the identity of 
applicants, and on other matters such as ensuring that it completes any other due diligence 
that is required under legislation. On occasion those checks might require HLAM to make 
reports under the legislation that cannot be shared with consumers. Although I have no 
reason to consider that might be the case here, and HLAM hasnt provided us with any 
specific details of the reasons for its rejection of Mr Ps application, it is right that HLAM 
treats all rejected applications in the same way, and so avoids any potential tipping-off risks 
under the relevant legislation.
So I dont think it unreasonable that HLAM has failed to explain to Mr P why it does not wish 
to accept his application. And that situation is exactly what the terms and conditions have 
been written to deal with. The terms and conditions are clear that HLAM is not obliged to 
provide any reasons why it might not proceed with an application that has been made.
I appreciate how disappointing this situation is for Mr P, and the potential embarrassment he 
might have faced if he had already told his employer that he was opening a SIPP with HLAM 
to receive its pension contributions. But, as Mr P appears to be aware, there are many other 
providers in the marketplace who offer SIPPs. It is likely that their application processes, and 
checks, will be different to those applied by HLAM, and so might result in a different 
outcome.
It is a commercial decision for any provider as to which consumers to offer services to. 
I havent seen anything to make me think that HLAM has acted unfairly in declining Mr Ps 
application, or failing to provide its reasons for doing so. It follows that I dont think the 
complaint should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman