DRN-3170489
The complaint
Mr E and Mrs M are unhappy that Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) declined a claim 
made of their travel insurance policy.
All references to URV includes its agents. 
What happened
Mr E and Mrs M had the benefit of an annual multi-trip policy, underwritten by URV (the 
policy).
Whilst abroad, on holiday, at the end of August 2020, Mr E required medical attention. He 
was experiencing severe stomach pain. He attended a public hospital close to where he and 
Mrs M were staying. He was then referred to a bigger local public hospital. He said he had to 
wait for many hours without being given any pain medication. He decided to leave the public 
hospital  and travel to a private hospital - after being told that he might need to wait many 
more hours for a scan.
Mr E and Mrs M then travelled to a nearby private hospital and he was advised that a non-
vital organ needed to be surgically removed. He was then booked into a private hospital and 
the operation took place shortly thereafter.
Mr E and Mrs M spoke to a representative of URV on the way to the private hospital. They 
told URVs representative of Mr Es experiences in the public hospital. Thats why Mr E was 
seeking medical treatment from a private hospital. URVs representative told Mr E and 
Mrs M that the policy doesnt cover medical costs incurred at a private facility. She advised 
them that they should pay for the treatment and then look to claim on the policy. However, 
there was no guarantee whether theyd successfully be able to reclaim any of the costs. 
Mr E went ahead with the private treatment and he remained in the private hospital until 30 
August 2020.
Mr E and Mrs M were due to return to the UK on 31 August 2020, but Mr E wasnt fit to fly 
due to his surgery. They ended up returning to the UK around 11 September 2020. 
Prior to returning to the UK, URV had requested and received medical information from 
Mr Es GP about pre-existing medical conditions. URV was concerned that Mr E may not 
have correctly answered questions about his health prior to taking out the policy, potentially 
affecting cover under the policy.
Mr E and Mrs M booked and paid for the return flights back to the UK. And they made a 
claim on the policy for Mr Es medical costs together with the costs of the return flights and 
accommodation theyd paid for because of their holiday being extended because Mr E 
wasnt fit to fly.
URV declined the claim. It said that had Mr E answered questions correctly about his health 
prior to the policy being taken out, it wouldnt have offered the policy to them. URV did end 
up offering to reimburse Mr E and Mrs M the premium theyd paid for the policy in the sum of 
£198.63.
Unhappy, Mr E and Mrs M brought a complaint to our Service. Our investigator looked into 
what had happened. Based on what hed seen  and the questions Mr E and Mrs M were 
asked prior to taking out the policy - he thought Mr E had answered the questions put to him 
correctly. URV subsequently agreed and said it would cover the costs of Mr E and Mrs Ms 
extended accommodation and return flights. However, it said that it wouldnt cover Mr Es 
private medical costs.
Our investigator concluded that URVs revised position was fair and reasonable. He 
recommended that URV pay the costs of the extended accommodation and return flights 
together with 8% simple interest per year. He also recommended URV pay Mr E and Mrs M 
compensation in the sum of £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience they experienced 
as a result of what URV got wrong here. 
URV agreed with this recommendation. Mr E and Mrs M disagreed and raised points in 
reply. Their complaint has now been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partially uphold Mr E and Mrs Ms complaint. 
At the outset, I want to make clear that Ive only considered the circumstances of this 
particular complaint. Im aware of another complaint which Mr E and Mrs M have brought to 
our Service about the support they received from URVs medical assistance team - the 
circumstances of which overlap somewhat to this complaint. However, Ive focused on 
whether URV acted fairly and reasonably when declining their claim.
URV has an obligation to handle complaints fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
URV initially declined the claim on the basis that had Mr E correctly answered questions 
about his health before the policy was taken out, it wouldnt have offered the policy to Mr E 
and Mrs M. On that basis, it effectively treated the policy as void and so it didnt meet the 
claim. 
However, URV has more recently accepted that Mr E answered the questions correctly and 
that it shouldnt have declined the entirety of the claim.
URV has now said that it will cover the extended accommodation costs totalling just under 
1,600 euros and return flights in the region of 337 euros. 
However, it has declined to pay private medical costs in the region of 9,750 euros. And I 
dont think its acted unfairly or reasonably by doing so. Ill explain why.
 
Subject to the remaining terms and conditions, the policy does provide cover for emergency 
medical attention abroad. This extends to:customary and reasonable fees or charges for necessary and emergency medical 
treatment
And:
additional travel, accommodation and repatriation costs to be made for, or by, you 
and for any one other person who is required for medical reasons to stay with you, to 
travel to you from your home country or to travel with you, where it is deemed 
medically necessary
But the policy also says cover is only provided if:
you are not claiming for costs of private treatment unless our 24-hour Emergency 
Assistance Facilities service has agreed, and adequate public facilities are not 
available.
The policy also says on page 2 under the section entitled: in case of a serious emergency 
in bold:
Your policy covers treatment at a public/state facility only, unless approved by us.
I dont think URV has unfairly or unreasonably relied on the terms of the policy in this 
particular case to decline paying Mr Es medical costs, as claimed. 
Mr E and Mrs M spoke with URV before Mr E underwent surgery. Ive listened to the 
recording of the call they had with URVs representative on the way to the private hospital. 
URVs representative didnt agree to private treatment. To the contrary, she said the policy 
doesnt cover private treatment and although Mr E and Mrs M could pay and claim under 
the policy for treatment, there were no guarantees that the costs would be covered. 
So, Mr E and Mrs M were  at the very least - aware that medical costs charged by the 
private hospital may not be covered but still opted to have the surgery at the private hospital.
Further, although Mr E says he was waiting for a number of hours at the public hospital  
and was told that he would have to wait for a number of hours more for a scan  I dont think 
this meant that adequate public facilities werent available. Whilst I appreciate that patients 
may have to wait longer for scans or to be seen by a medical professional at a public 
hospital, a duty of care is owed to the patient. And I dont think the timescale given was an 
unreasonable one given the symptoms Mr E was experiencing. 
If Mr E did require emergency surgery to remove a non-vital organ, Im not persuaded that if 
hed waited at the public hospital  rather than choosing to go to the private hospital  the 
public hospital wouldnt have been able to arrange emergency surgery for him based on the 
evidence Ive been provided with.
I do appreciate that Mr E and Mrs M wouldve been made to worry unnecessarily by being 
told by URV prior to their return to the UK that it was concerned that Mr E may not have 
answered questions about his health correctly before taking out the policy. And that this may 
affect any claim under the policy. As it transpires, URV accepts that Mr E had answered the 
questions correctly and it has agreed to settle part Mr E and Mrs Ms claim. 
Mr E and Mrs M were made aware on 28 August 2020  before the surgery took place  that 
the policy didnt cover private medical costs. But to be incorrectly made aware that the policy 
might not also cover the costs of the extended accommodation and return flights, Im satisfied caused Mr E and Mrs M unnecessary distress towards the end of their unplanned 
extended holiday. I also think they wouldve felt somewhat frustrated by what they were 
being told by URV as Mrs M was sure that she answered all questions correctly before 
taking out the policy (something which URV now accepts). Im also satisfied that Mr E and 
Mrs M were put to the unnecessary inconvenience of having to book their flights home 
themselves. 
Putting things right
I direct URV to pay Mr E and Mrs M:
A. the additional accommodation and flight costs claimed for (URV has recently 
confirmed to our Service that it will waive the applicable policy excess as a gesture of 
goodwill);
B. simple interest on the amounts set out in A. above at a rate of 8% per year from the 
date it first declined the claim to the date the claim is paid; and
C. compensation in the sum of £200 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I partially uphold Mr E and Mrs Ms complaint and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put 
things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman