DRN-3712671
The complaint
The estate of Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has provided unhelpful, unclear 
and insensitive service relating to Mr Es mortgage since his death.
Ms P  Mr Es widow  has brought this complaint as a representative of Mr Es estate, so Ill 
mostly refer to the estate as Ms P.
What happened
Mr E sadly passed away on 2 January 2022. Ms P says this was unexpected and, as she 
was not a party to the mortgage, the challenges she encountered dealing with the matter 
have had a severe effect on her health and wellbeing.
The mortgage with Barclays had an outstanding balance of approximately £61,000, £26,100 
of which was on an interest only basis.
Ms P informed Barclays of her husbands passing on 10 January 2022. She was initially 
given a number for its bereavement team and Barclays sent her a letter saying what to do 
next. On receipt of the death certificate  towards the end of January  Ms P attempted to 
upload it to Barclays on-line service. But to complete that task, Barclays required the grant of 
probate, which she didnt have at that time. She said the on-line form wasnt clear about 
what would happen next, but she expected to hear from Barclays mortgage team. When that 
didnt happen, she tried again to upload the death certificate and her ID and she later found 
out that it can take Barclays up to 15 working days to acknowledge that. Ms P says during 
that time she was left stressed and anxious about the security of her home and unable to 
find out the balance of the mortgage or what she should do.
On the advice of a Barclays representative, Ms P made a complaint. In response, she 
received a phone call from Barclays on 16 February 2022 and says the caller argued with 
her and stated Barclays policies which he said were clear and straightforward. But he didnt 
listen to her complaint or offer an apology and wouldnt escalate the matter.
Ms P tried to complain again but having got through to a Barclays representative was cut off 
after 12 minutes of holding. She waited to see if shed receive a call back but didnt. She 
called again to make her complaint and received a call back on 17 February 2022. The 
Barclays representative said Barclays hadnt done anything wrong but did acknowledge the 
previous complaint response call should have ended sooner. Again, she was told the matter 
could not be escalated.
Ms P then received a letter asking for payment, followed by an unpaid direct debit letter and 
a check book  all addressed to her late husband. During that time shed also contacted the 
bereavement team and asked for a call back which she never received. At the time of 
bringing her complaint to us  13 March 2022  Ms P had received no clarity on what was 
owed on the mortgage and what she could do to repay it. She says Barclays has not helped 
her. Instead it has made her grief, her loss and her life over the previous two months more 
acute and more painful.
In its final response letter dated 29 March 2022, Barclays acknowledged that it had let       
Ms P down and sent letters to her late husband in error. It said it had omitted to update its 
records following her initial contact informing Barclays of Mr Es passing. It assured her its 
systems had now been updated and said it still required the grant of probate or letter of 
administration and until such time as Barclays receives that, it cannot provide more 
information. However, to apologise for the upset caused, it offered to pay Ms P £200.
Since bringing her complaint to us Ms P has been further frustrated by Barclays actions. She 
said she received another payment chaser dated 17 April 2022, addressed to her late 
husband. She said she chased Barclays four times for its final response letter  eventually 
receiving correspondence, dated 11 May 2022, enclosing the letter dated 29 March 2022.
Our investigator found that Barclays has acted unreasonably, but its offer of £200 in respect 
of the distress and inconvenience cause was fair in the circumstances.
Ms P didnt agree. She said Barclays continued to delay matters when we investigated the 
complaint, failing to respond promptly to our requests and giving our investigator incorrect 
information to pass on to Ms P. She also says she was told by Barclays bereavement team 
that its mortgage team would not speak to her despite having received the grant of probate. 
And, on another occasion, Barclays would only communicate with her via this Service while 
we considered her complaint. Ms P says dealing with Barclays has been physically and 
emotionally exhausting and Barclays offer isnt close to compensating her for that.
As Ms P didnt accept our investigators findings, her complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear from what Ive seen that Ms P has been through (and is still going through) a very 
difficult time. When someone loses a loved one and is left to sort out their financial affairs, I 
think its a reasonable expectation that they are treated with care, sensitivity and helped 
through whatever process is necessary, as efficiently as possible. Ms Ps circumstances 
mean shes had the added concern of not knowing what will happen with the house shes 
lived in for many years. Her situation has made her task more challenging in that she wasnt 
a party to the mortgage. But I dont think that means she should have expected any less of a 
service from Barclays. 
The fact that Ms P was not a party to the mortgage means that I am limited in what I can 
decide. Ill explain what that means for her complaint. 
We have the power to consider complaints brought by an eligible complainant or their 
representative. An eligible complainant is the customer(s) of the financial business in respect 
of the financial product or service complained about. In this case, Mr E had a mortgage with 
Barclays, so he is an eligible complainant. Ms P was not a party to the mortgage, so she is 
not an eligible complainant.
Ms P can bring a complaint on behalf of her late husband as his estate. But we can only 
direct a business to make an award to the estate with regard to distress or inconvenience if it 
was caused to an eligible complainant  Mr E, before he died. So, I wont be able to direct 
Barclays to make an award to Ms P for the distress and inconvenience it has caused to her 
directly.However, Barclays has acknowledged that it let her down. And in its letter to her dated       
21 March 2022 offered to pay her £200 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused. Barclays offer was in respect of its service to Ms P up to the date she made her 
complaint. Much has happened since then that Ms P says has caused her more distress and 
inconvenience. So, Barclays may wish to review its actions and the offer it has made to     
Ms P. And I think it remains a reasonable expectation from Ms P that Barclays clearly 
outlines her options to her, acting on behalf of Mr Es estate  if it hasnt already  and treats 
the matter with care and sensitivity.
With regard to the complaint Ms P brought to us and Barclays has responded to, I dont have 
the power to direct Barclays to do more. So, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint brought on behalf of the estate of Mr E 
about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr E 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman