DRN-4216311
The complaint
W, a company, complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a 
claim it made under its professional indemnity insurance policy.
The complaint is brought by Mr P, a Director of W, on Ws behalf.
What happened
W had the benefit of a professional indemnity insurance policy with RSA which ran from May 
2021 until April 2022.
W entered into a contract with a customer to provide surveying services. The survey was 
conducted in January 2021 with a report being issued around two months later. 
In April 2021 the customer complained about the work conducted by W. W responded a 
couple of weeks later apologising that the service the customer received had not been as 
expected. W agreed to waive its fee with a view to seeing an end to the matter. Three weeks 
later the customer asked for its complaint to be dealt with under Ws complaints handling 
procedure. W responded to this, but the customer said they werent prepared to accept Ws 
position.
In June 2022 W received a formal letter of claim from Solicitors instructed by its customer. It 
notified RSA of this the following day. RSA declined the claim on the basis that the claim 
itself had not been made during the period of cover.
Our investigator considered Ws complaint and concluded it should be upheld. She said that 
although W had failed to notify the claim during the period of insurance in accordance with 
the policy terms, it wouldnt be fair for RSA to decline the claim as they hadnt been 
prejudiced by being notified after the policy ended. RSA dont agree so the matter has been 
passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
THIS POLICY COVERS CLAIMS FIRST MADE AGAINST THE INSURED (AND, IN 
RELATION TO INSURANCE CLAUSE 3, LOSSES FIRST DISCOVERED AND 
INSURANCE CLAUSE 4, LOSS OR DAMAGE OCCURRING) AND NOTIFIED TO
THE INSURER DURING THE PERIOD OF INSURANCE. PLEASE READ THE POLICY 
WORDING CAREFULLY.
Its not in dispute that the claim W was making was in relation to losses first discovered 
during the period of insurance nor that the claim itself was notified around two months after 
the policy ended. What is in dispute is whether it was fair for RSA to rely on their policy 
terms in declining Ws claim on reliance of them.
RSA say that if they provided W with cover, they would have been in breach of their policy 
terms and this wouldnt be in line with treating customers fairly. They also say theyve 
complied with the guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers in their handling of 
this claim. W on the other hand says that the position RSA have adopted is not fair or 
reasonable as there was no prejudice to it in considering the claim after it was notified two 
months too late. 
Ive thought about what both parties have said in this case and the circumstances 
surrounding the claim itself. I think the fair thing in this particular complaint is for RSA to 
consider Ws claim as if it had been notified during the period of insurance. These are my 
reasons:
Had W done as required and notified the claim during the policy period, its likely RSA 
would have simply opened a file on the matter and kept a watching brief. Thats because 
Ws customer didnt seek to pursue anything beyond setting out that they didnt agree 
with Ws position in June 2021. It wasnt until a year later that W received a letter of 
claim. So, if RSA had opened file, I think it would have been reasonable for them to think 
the claim might well have gone away by the time cover ended. Because of this I dont 
think RSA would suffer any prejudice by accepting the claim when it was notified to 
them, even though this was two months after cover ending.
Theres nothing else in this case that suggests RSA may be adversely affected by 
considering the claim as if it had been made during the period of cover. W hasnt 
incurred any legal fees of its own, theres no suggestion that the evidence in the case 
might be compromised had the claim been notified sooner and there dont appear to be 
any other difficulties that might prejudice RSA in looking at things now.
W notified the claim to RSA the day after it received a letter from its customers 
Solicitors. So, although it was notified two months after cover ended, there was no delay 
in notification once a letter of claim had been received.
W is a business in its infancy. And although its a commercial entity, it is effectively 
operated by Mr P. Mr P says that this was the first time hed received a complaint from a 
customer and that he was nave to the fact that he needed to report this to RSA. Whilst I 
dont think this is a reason in itself to uphold Ws complaint, I do feel that the size and 
relative inexperience of W is something RSA shouldve taken into account when 
considering whether to have adopted a fair and reasonable approach in this particular 
case. 
I appreciate RSA is concerned with the wider impact of accepting a claim outside its 
policy terms, but each case turns on its own facts and in this particular case, Im 
persuaded that RSA should have adopted a fair and reasonable approach and agreed to 
consider the claim as if it had been made during the period of cover.
As the investigator explained, I cant award anything for the distress RSAs handling of Ws 
claim might have caused to Mr P (particularly due to the circumstances hes described- 
which Im sorry to hear about) because this is Ws complaint and W is not a natural person. 
As such it isnt capable of suffering distress, so I wont be making any awards of 
compensation in this regard. 
Putting things right
To put things right RSA should reconsider Ws claim under the remaining policy terms as if it had been made during the period of insurance being in place.
My final decision
I uphold Ws complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited and direct it put 
things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman