DRN-4147122
The complaint
The estate of Mrs W complains that RBS Collective Investment Funds Limited (RBS) 
delayed the transfer of the late Mrs Ws ISA.
The complaint is brought on the estates behalf by the joint executors - a family member and 
a solicitor. The family member, who Ill refer to as Mrs H, has been the main point of contact 
with this service and, for ease, Ill refer to everything as if its been said by her.
Mrs H says she wants RBS to apologise, to pay her £1,500 for the distress and 
inconvenience shes been caused, and to pay the additional solicitors costs that have been 
incurred.
What happened
Mrs W passed away in December 2019. She had an ISA and an OEIC with RBS. In August 
2020, RBS received the grant of probate and a stock transfer form to transfer the shares 
held in the ISA. RBS said the stock transfer form wasnt signed by all parties, it hadnt 
received completed transfer paperwork for the OEIC, and it needed documentation from the 
solicitor to fulfil its anti-money laundering obligations.
Mrs H made many phone calls to RBS to check on progress. She says there was a lack of 
clarity about what RBS needed, that it kept changing its requirements, that it was unhelpful 
and that it wasnt proactive.
RBS said there was a discrepancy in the postcode for the solicitor meaning some of its 
correspondence wasnt delivered. And, when it identified this, it failed to update the postcode 
until around nine months later. It paid Mrs H £150 as a gesture of goodwill.
After the complaint had been referred to this service, we obtained a breakdown of the 
solicitors fees which were incurred in dealing with the paperwork of the transfer. RBS said 
fees would always have been incurred because the solicitors needed to complete the stock 
transfer forms and provide the anti-money laundering documents. But it accepted the delay 
may have resulted in additional costs and it offered to pay £600 towards the fees. It also 
offered to make a further payment to Mrs H of £100.
Following our investigators involvement, the transfer was completed on 19 April 2023.
Our investigator concluded that RBS had caused some of the delay. But, because the 
solicitor hadnt charged its fees to the estate, he couldnt recommend they be reimbursed. 
He explained that this service could only award financial losses the estate had made as a 
result of the delayed transfer. And that we could only award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience to eligible complainants  in this case, the late Mrs W  and not to third 
parties, including Mrs H as executor of the estate. The investigator endorsed the offer made 
by RBS.
Mrs H asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She said, in summary, 
that:
The mistake with the postcode wasnt investigated, despite her many phone calls to 
RBS.
RBS didnt communicate with the executors throughout 2020. Its lack of action delayed 
the transfer by years.
RBS didnt accept correctly completed stock transfer forms and its not clear why.
She remains aggrieved by RBSs persistent mistakes and failure to remedy them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
RBS received the grant of probate and a stock transfer form in August 2020. The stock 
transfer form hadnt been correctly completed, a second stock transfer form was needed for 
the OEIC, and RBS needed information and documents to verify the identity of the solicitors, 
to fulfil its anti-money laundering obligations. Whilst there were some complications with the 
identification and verification process, I dont find this should have unduly delayed the 
transfer. And I dont find any reason why it should have taken around 32 months for the 
transfer to be successfully completed. Had RBS corrected the postcode mistake when it was 
first identified, and if it had been more proactive in trying to progress the transfer, I find it 
could have been completed at a much earlier date. 
RBS apologised to Mrs H in its final response to her complaint in March 2022. But it still took 
a further 13 months before the transfer was completed. So, despite Mrs Hs complaint, and 
RBSs apology, it still failed to proactively progress the transfer. Im pleased its agreed to 
send a further letter of apology to Mrs H.
The investigator explained to Mrs H that this service can only award financial losses to the 
estate. Im satisfied that the estate hasnt incurred a financial loss because of the delay. RBS 
has provided information to satisfy me that the value of the ISA and OEIC were higher when 
they were transferred than they were in August 2020 when the grant of probate was 
provided.
Mrs H wants RBS to reimburse the solicitors fees. But the solicitor has not charged its fees 
to the estate, so theres no loss to be reimbursed.
I dont underestimate the frustration and upset the delayed transfer has caused Mrs H. Shes 
told us about her personal circumstances and why the delay was particularly distressing for 
her. Im not unsympathetic, but this service operates under a set of rules laid down by 
Parliament under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. Im entirely bound by these 
rules, and I cant disregard them. As the investigator explained, we can only make awards 
for distress and inconvenience to eligible complainants. The eligible complainant in this case is the late Mrs W. So I dont have the power to make an award for the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs H has been caused.
This means I cant uphold this complaint because I dont find the estate of Mrs W has made 
a financial loss and I cant award compensation for distress and inconvenience to the 
executors of the estate as they arent the eligible complainants. However, I understand RBS 
has agreed to send Mrs H a letter of apology, to pay £600 towards the solicitors fees, and to 
pay Mrs H £100, in addition to the £150 its already paid, for the distress shes been caused. 
The executors will need to contact RBS direct if they want to accept its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs 
W to accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman