DRN-3494757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont refund payments they 
made after falling victim to a scam.
What happened
In 2018, Mr and Mrs A were cold called by a broker Ill refer to as B. B offered Mr and Mrs A 
the opportunity to invest in a company Ill refer to as C. C was a commercial property 
developer who was offering property bonds.
Mr and Mrs A say B sent them a glossy brochure about C, their background and the bonds 
they were offering. After a couple of weeks B called Mr and Mrs A and sent them a further 
brochure. Mr and Mrs A say they had several calls with the contact at B, who sounded 
professional and that the emails from B looked official. Mr and Mrs A also found the 
brochures they were given very convincing, saying they looked impressive.
Mr and Mrs A decided to invest in the three year bond which offered 9.12% per annum. On  
5 March 2018 they made their first payment of £5,000 and on 21 March 2018 made a 
second payment of £25,000.
In April 2018, Mr and Mrs A received a payment from C which they say was the equivalent of 
12 months interest on their investment. This payment was for £2,736. Then in July 2019 Mr 
and Mrs A received a further payment from C, which they say was the equivalent of three 
months interest on their investment. This payment was for £684. However, Mr and Mrs A say 
the second payment was only made after them negotiating with C and say Cs head office 
was uncontactable at the time. Mr and Mrs A received no further payments or their 
investment funds back.
In the following months Mr and Mrs A discovered that B (the broker) had been closed down 
by the Financial Conduct Authority and that the directors of C (the property developer) had 
absconded with the investors money.
In February 2021, Mr and Mrs A contacted Santander and raised a fraud claim. Santander 
declined to refund Mr and Mrs A saying theyd invested in a genuine company which had 
gone into liquidation  as such Mr and Mrs A werent entitled to a refund.
Mr and Mrs A werent happy with Santanders response, so they brought a complaint to our 
service.
An investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that Santander should 
refund Mr and Mrs A. The investigator explained that the payments Mr and Mrs A had made 
to C were out of character and shouldve warranted intervention by Santander before 
processing. However, the investigator didnt think that the scam wouldve been uncovered if 
Santander had contacted Mr and Mrs A about the payments  as the information Mr and Mrs 
A wouldve given them about the purpose of the payments wouldnt have suggested they 
might be the victims of a scam.
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the investigators opinion. They said other investors who made 
payments from their Santander account had been given a full refund  which suggests 
Santander felt an obligation. As such, they feel Santander should make an offer to refund 
them, even just a token amount.
As Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when looking into
what is fair and reasonable in this case. But a bank also has to be on the lookout for, and
help to prevent payments, that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Should Santander have done more to prevent the payments?
Having looked at Mr and Mrs As account use prior to the scam payments being made, I can 
see theyd made several faster payments or card payments for between £1,000 and £2,500. 
So, Im not convinced that the first payment they made to C for £5,000 was so unusual or out 
of character that I wouldve expected Santander to intervene prior to processing the 
payment. 
However, I think the payment of £25,000 was significantly out of character and did warrant 
intervention. This is slightly different than what the investigator said in their opinion, but even 
if I agreed that the first payment shouldve concerned Santander and resulted in them 
contacting Mr and Mrs A prior to processing the payment  it wouldnt change the outcome 
Ive reached and Ill explain why.
At the time that Mr and Mrs A made both payments in March 2018, I think a discussion with 
Santander wouldve involved them asking some general questions to find out about the 
purpose of the payments Mr and Mrs A were making and what they knew about the 
company they were investing in. 
I think the discussion wouldve drawn out the following information from Mr and Mrs A:
The brochures that Mr and Mrs A received looked professional. They were in full 
colour and had no spelling mistakes or grammatical errors which can be common in 
scam paperwork. The brochure also referred to a link with a valid property rental 
company that operates in the UK, and clearly set out Cs business, the investments it 
was offering and some information around previous returns achieved. There was 
nothing about the brochures that I think wouldve caused Santander concern.
Mr and Mrs A were being referred to the investment by a broker  B. Mr and Mrs A 
say they talked to the contact at B several times and found them very professional. 
Also, that there was no pressure from B for them to invest immediately, with B 
waiting a couple of weeks before calling them again. Again, this isnt necessarily 
typical of a scam investment.
While C wasnt a regulated company with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), 
they had been incorporated since 2013 (some five years prior) and there were no 
scam warnings, bad reviews or online articles that suggested they were unreputable. The same is true about the broker  B. While there is now an FCA warning about B 
being unauthorised, this wasnt posted on the FCAs website until December 2019, 
over a year after Mr and Mrs A made their payments.
Also, Mr and Mrs A have told us that it wasnt until approximately a year after they 
made their payments to C, that C become uncontactable. In fact, Mr and Mrs A 
received an interest payment from C just a month after making the first payment to 
them.
I did take into account that Mr and Mrs A were cold called and that C wasnt FCA regulated - 
which is seen in a lot of scam scenarios. But, not all unregulated investment companies are 
fraudulent. And, I think the length of time C had been trading for, combined with the lack of 
warnings on the FCA website, or any negative warnings or bad reviews online wouldve 
counteracted those two points. All of the negative reviews and warnings were posted after 
Mr and Mrs A made their payments and wouldnt have been available at the time of their 
payments.  
Overall, Im not satisfied that the information Mr and Mrs A wouldve given Santander, or the 
information that wouldve been available at the time, wouldve suggested that Mr and Mrs A 
might be the victims of a scam. So, Im not persuaded that Santander missed an opportunity 
to uncover the scam or that they shouldve prevented Mr and Mrs A from making these 
payments. On that basis, I cant fairly ask Santander to refund Mr and Mrs A.
Should Santander have done more to try and recover Mr and Mrs As funds
Santander didnt contact the beneficiary bank when Mr and Mrs A first reported the scam in 
2021, as Santander werent satisfied that Mr and Mrs A were the victims of a scam. 
However, Im persuaded that even if they had contacted the beneficiary bank in 2021, its 
more likely than not Santander wouldnt have been able to recover any funds.  I say this 
because Mr and Mrs A had made the payments nearly three years prior and fraudsters 
usually remove the money from the account as quickly as possible, often within days or 
weeks of receiving the money. Also, any recourse to the funds wouldve been on the basis 
that the oldest money into the account would be paid out first. So, Mr and Mrs A would only 
have a claim if their funds were still in the account in 2021, which is unlikely. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs A are very disappointed that Santander havent offered to 
refund them, even a token amount. But having considered everything very carefully Im not 
satisfied I can fairly ask Santander to refund them.
Mr and Mrs A also referred to other investors who they say have brought complaints to our 
service with the same circumstances against Santander, and those investors have received 
a full refund. In considering Mr and Mrs As case, I have to reach an answer based on the 
specific circumstances and merits of their complaint. If Santander has made an offer on 
other complaints, that doesnt mean that I can require them to make a payment to Mr and 
Mrs A. Santander had the opportunity to make an offer to Mr and Mrs A at the time they 
raised their complaint with them, and while the complaint was with our service. However, 
Santander has chosen not to refund Mr and Mrs A.
Im really sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs A, but I cant fairly ask Santander to refund them. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman