DRN-3694126
The complaint
Mr M complains Studio Retail Limited (Studio) failed to accept a payment he made to settle 
the balance on his catalogue shopping account. This has caused negative information to be 
added to his credit file.
What happened
Mr M holds a catalogue shopping account with Studio. This is a type of account where a 
person can purchase goods on credit from a particular catalogue retailer, up to a certain 
limit, and then pay off what they owe over time. 
Mr M had, up until May 2022, made payments towards the account using a bank card. He 
was sent a statement by Studio on 28 April 2022 which said he had a balance of £69.96, and 
requested a minimum payment of £10 by 28 May 2022. The statement listed a number of 
different ways in which payment could be made:
Logging on to My Account on the Studio website, or ringing a telephone number, 
and making a payment by card.
Direct Debit.
Taking a bank giro credit (BGC) slip, which was attached to the statement, to a bank 
branch and making the payment there.
Completing the BGC slip and sending it with a cheque or a postal order, with his 
name, address and Studio account number written on the back, to Studios postal 
address. 
This time, it appears Mr M tried to make a payment in a different way. I will not go into every 
detail as it isnt necessary, but he wrote Money Order along with a series of numbers on 
the BGC slip, and the words Pay to the order of Studio Retail Ltd the sum of Eighty Four 
Pounds (£84.00). He also wrote his name on the slip and signed and dated it 12 May 2022. 
Finally, he wrote the words Not Negotiable on the slip. Mr M wrote various other things on 
the front page of the statement hed received from Studio. These referred to a tax exemption 
reference, a surety bond number and a tax certificate number. It also mentioned an account 
number apparently in Mr Ms name, to which the £84 should be charged.
Mr M sent the BGC slip and statement back to Studio, along with a covering letter dated 12 
May 2022. It was addressed to Studios Chief Executive Officer and stated that he had 
enclosed a Money Order for £84 to discharge his liability. It went on to say that if Studio 
believed the order to be deficient or found wanting it should return it with an explanation as 
to why, and that if Studio retained the order for more than 72 hours after receiving it, then 
Mr M would take this to mean that the liability had been discharged. Mr M followed this up 
with several more letters which referred to him having made full payment by Money Order.
To summarise briefly what happened after this: a payment was not credited to Mr Ms Studio 
account. A complaint was made and an investigation was raised about the payment going 
missing, but in the end Studio said that Money Orders were not a form of payment they 
would accept towards the account. The account, in the meantime, fell into arrears and 
negative information was reported to Mr Ms credit file as a result.
Unhappy with the response he received from Studio, Mr M referred the matter to this service, 
where it was looked into by an investigator. He reached the following conclusions:
It was for Studio to decide what payment methods it would accept. These were 
published on its website. The method Mr M had chosen wasnt an accepted method, 
so it wasnt unreasonable of Studio to say that it had not received payment when 
Mr M tried to pay in this way.
Mr M had made payments using an accepted method before, so he knew how to 
make successful payments to the account.
Studios website explained that it would report non-payment to credit reference 
agencies. While Mr M had offered to make up some payments later, it had been his 
responsibility to keep the account up to date. Studio had acted fairly by reporting late 
payment to Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint, so the matter has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial institutions do not have to accept any conceivable payment method a customer 
wishes to use, but I would expect them to keep customers informed of the methods they can 
use to make payments towards their accounts. Studio provided this information on the 
statements it sent to Mr M, so hed have been reasonably aware of the methods Studio 
considered acceptable. 
Mr Ms chosen method of payment was unusual and is not to my knowledge a type of 
payment which is generally accepted towards consumer credit debts. It was not a method of 
payment listed on his Studio statement, so I think Mr M should have known that it would not 
be accepted. And it wasnt unreasonable of Studio to decide not to accept it and request that 
Mr M make his payment using one of the methods listed on his statement.
It wasnt reasonable of Mr M to assume, as he said in his letters, that if Studio kept the order 
for more than 72 hours, that his liability to pay the debt on the account would be discharged. 
Its not reasonable to impose such deadlines unilaterally without the agreement of the other 
party, and Mr Ms debt hasnt been discharged just because Studio failed to reply to him 
promptly.
Turning to the impact on Mr Ms credit file, ultimately Mr M tried to make a payment using a 
method which he ought reasonably to have known would not have been accepted. He knew 
what the deadline was to make a payment using a method acceptable to Studio, because it 
was written on his statement. He failed to make an acceptable payment by that date and in 
those circumstances it was reasonable of Studio to have reported that fact, resulting in it 
appearing on his credit file. I understand Mr M has made offers to pay since (it is not clear by 
what method he proposes to do this) but as far as I am aware, he has not made any 
payments to the account via a method Studio accepts. As the account remains in arrears 
due to non-payment then there is nothing wrong in Studio continuing to report it as such. Indeed, that is what would be expected.
It's not clear to me why Mr M decided to try to repay the debt on his Studio account using 
this unusual method of payment. But in my experience, attempts to pay off debts in this way 
often have their roots in financial difficulties being felt by the person owing the debt. If this is 
the case for Mr M, then this is something he should discuss with Studio, who may be able to 
help. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman