DRN-2345659
The complaint
The estate of Mr T complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly 
declined a claim made under Mr Ts life and terminal illness policy.
The estate of Mr T is represented in this complaint by Mr Ts wife and executor, Mrs T. But to 
keep things simple, my decision will refer to Mrs T rather than Mr Ts estate. 
What happened
In August 2013 Mr T took out an L&G life and terminal illness policy. In his application for 
this policy, Mr T answered a series of questions, including about his health. When answering 
these questions, Mr T didnt disclose that he had any medical conditions. 
Sadly, Mr T passed away in June 2019. The death certificate listed Mr Ts cause of death as 
I (a) Carcinomatosis Malignant Melanoma and II Type II Diabetes Mellitus.
Mrs T made a claim under Mr Ts policy and provided Mr Ts death certificate as part of this. 
But L&G declined the claim and avoided the policy (cancelled it as if it had never existed), 
because it said Mr T hadnt told it about his diabetes when he applied for the policy  in other 
words, L&G said Mr T had made a reckless misrepresentation. However, it refunded the 
premiums Mr T had paid.
Mrs T complained to L&G that it had acted unfairly and taken too long to assess the claim. 
And she explained Mr Ts death certificate had incorrectly included diabetes as a cause of 
death. But L&G said it had correctly declined the claim and avoided the policy, and while the 
death certificate might wrongly list diabetes, it had followed its usual process and Mr T 
should have disclosed his diabetes when he took out the policy. But L&G accepted it had 
taken about ten working days longer than it should have to decide the claim. It apologised 
and offered Mrs T £150 compensation for this. 
Mrs T referred the complaint to our service and provided doctors letters confirming diabetes 
wasnt part of the causal sequence leading to Mr Ts death and that Mr T hadnt started 
taking gliclazide (a medicine used to treat diabetes) until 2015. She said L&G had fixated on 
Mr Ts diabetes when his cause of death was cancer, and wanted L&G to at least partly pay 
the claim. 
After looking into things, our investigator said L&G had acted fairly in the circumstances. 
Mrs T disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. She said 
Mr T had controlled his diabetes through his diet and only started taking medication for it in 
2015. Mrs T didnt know why Mr T hadnt disclosed his diabetes but suggested he might not 
have thought he was ill if he wasnt taking medication. And she said L&G had looked for 
loopholes and taken too long to decide the claim.
Our investigator explained claims can take time, particularly if medical information needs to 
be gathered. But he said L&G accepted it had caused delays and that the £150 
compensation it had offered Mrs T for that wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances. 
As Mrs T requested, this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by saying that Im very sorry to hear about Mr T passing away and Id like to 
offer my condolences to Mrs T. I realise this complaint has been made under very difficult 
circumstances for her. 
However, Im not asking L&G to do anything further. Ill explain why. The law that applies 
here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012, known as 
CIDRA. CIDRA requires insurers like L&G to ask clear questions. And it requires 
consumers like Mr T to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking 
out an insurance policy. CIDRA says that if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer can take 
certain actions, provided the misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation - in other 
words, that it makes a difference. 
Ive looked at the questions L&G asked Mr T in the policy application. The Health  Ever 
section starts by saying When answering all of the following questions, if you are unsure of 
the relevance of any medical condition you have had, please disclose it anyway. Where 
examples are shown they are not intended to be a complete list. However, there is no need 
to state the same medical condition more than once when answering the questions. And just 
below that, it asks Have you ever: had diabetes or a heart condition, for example angina, 
heart attack, heart valve problem or heart surgery?
I think this question was clear, and that L&G also made clear Mr T should disclose any 
medical conditions he had even if he wasnt sure they were relevant. Mr T answered No to 
this question, and didnt disclose diabetes anywhere else in the application. Soon after, L&G 
sent Mr T a checking your details form along with a copy of the questions it had asked and 
the answers Mr T had given. The top of the form said If the answers on your application are 
not correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may mean that a claim will be declined and 
the policy or policies cancelled. In the event of a claim we may request a report from your 
doctor to support your application answers. Please tell us straight away if you need to 
change any of your answers before your policy starts. Please read the 'personal details 
document carefully. Where the form asked Have we got your details right?, Mr T ticked 
YES and signed the declaration.
But Mr Ts medical records show Mr Ts answer to the diabetes question was incorrect, 
because hed been diagnosed with diabetes in 2007 and had regular ongoing medical 
reviews for this in the years up to buying the policy.  So Im satisfied Mr T made a 
misrepresentation. And Im satisfied that misrepresentation made a difference, because L&G 
has provided me with underwriting criteria showing it would have charged Mr T higher 
premiums had he not made that misrepresentation. So it was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
L&G has categorised the misrepresentation as reckless, and Ive thought about whether 
L&G was fair to do that. Sadly, Mr T cant tell us why he didnt disclose his diabetes. And 
Mrs T doesnt know why, though shes said Mr T didnt start taking gliclazide until 2015 and 
so might not have considered himself to be ill if he wasnt taking medication.
So Ive considered the medical evidence Ive been provided with. As Ive said, it shows Mr T 
was diagnosed with diabetes in 2007 and was afterwards regularly reviewed for it. It also 
shows he was taking metformin, a medicine used to treat diabetes. I say that because a 
hospital letter dated 7 November 2008 asks Mr Ts GP to increase his Metformin to 1gram bd in view of the impaired diabetic control. And letters from a hospital on 9 February 2011 
and a walk-in centre on 18 July 2013 both note Mr T was taking metformin. 
Mr Ts medical records also show his diabetes was poorly controlled in the three years 
before he took out the policy, noting this at least once a year from 2 March 2010 onwards. 
And they show that in the six months before taking out the policy, Mr T spoke to his GP on 
five occasions about his diabetes  on these occasions, his diabetes was often noted to be 
poorly controlled, and Mr T was often given advice about diet, exercise or alcohol 
consumption. On more than one of these occasions, discussions about adding in further 
diabetes medication treatment are noted. And four months before he bought the policy, 
Mr Ts medical records note he was given a demonstration and equipment for monitoring his 
own blood.
Based on this, Mr Ts diabetes wasnt an insignificant, short-lived health issue. Instead, it 
was something he regularly saw his GP for, particularly in the six months before the policy 
started. And something for which Mr T received advice and treatment, particularly when his 
diabetes became poorly controlled from March 2010 onwards.  So its not reasonable to 
think Mr T might have simply forgotten about his diabetes, or thought it was well controlled or 
an otherwise insignificant issue he didnt need to take medication for. 
Therefore, I think it was fair for L&G to categorise Mr Ts misrepresentation as reckless. 
Under CIDRA, this means L&G is entitled to decline the claim and avoid the policy. Thats 
what L&G has in fact done, so it has acted fairly. L&G has also refunded the premiums Mr T 
has paid, and I think thats fair because while thats not something CIDRA says L&G has to 
do in these circumstances, L&G can itself choose to do so.  
Mrs T says L&G has sought a loophole and fixated on Mr Ts diabetes when it was cancer 
that caused his death. Ive seen that Mr Ts death certificate does list diabetes, though I 
know Mrs T says this is incorrect and has provided evidence to support this. But whether the 
death certificate was incorrect or not doesnt change the outcome here. The death certificate 
was nonetheless provided to L&G and led it to think Mr T might have made a 
misrepresentation about his diabetes.  L&G was entitled to investigate a potential 
misrepresentation it became aware of and I think it acted fairly by only asking for relevant 
information - it only asked Mr Ts GP for information specifically regarding his diabetes.
Mrs T also says L&G took too long to decide the claim. L&G received the claim in mid-June 
2019 and sent Mrs T its claim decision in mid-November 2019. Therefore L&G took about 
five months to decide the claim. I dont think thats an unreasonably long time overall, 
especially since L&G needed to write to Mr Ts GP several times and consider the medical 
information it received. However there were occasions when L&G took longer than might 
reasonably be expected to review that medical information. L&G itself accepts this  it says 
this caused a total unnecessary delay of about ten working days. I appreciate Mrs T would 
want the claim to be decided as soon as possible, but I dont think ten working days is a 
significant delay given the overall time L&G needed to decide the claim. L&G has itself 
offered Mrs T £150 compensation for this and I dont think thats unfair in the circumstances. 
So I leave it to Mrs T to decide whether shed like to accept L&Gs offer.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds offer is fair 
and I dont require it to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T 
to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman