DRN-1568698
The complaint
Ms E complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) failed to notify her 
of a fine for a traffic offence which meant she unable to appeal.
What happened
Ms E acquired a car funded by a hire agreement with VFS. It was the registered keeper and 
received a penalty charge notice on 7 December 2018. It was dated 4 December and the 
sum payable was £130 reduced to £65 if paid within 14 days of the notice. It paid £65 and 
recharged Ms E.  It didnt notify Ms E of the fine until May 2019 and when it did it charged 
her an administration fee of £25. The letter from VFS was delayed and the payment was 
taken from Ms Es account on the day it arrived.
Ms E complained that it had delayed telling her and denied her the opportunity to appeal. 
VFS rejected her complaint, but because of the delay it agreed to waive the administration 
charge. She then brought the matter to this service where it was considered by one of our 
investigators who didnt recommend it be upheld. 
In addition to the fine Ms E said that VFS had debited her account several times even 
though she had paid the sum requested. It had caused her time and effort to deal with these 
errors by VFS. Our investigator said that it was clear from the notice and the evidence 
provided by the local council that Ms E had little basis for an appeal. She also said that Ms E 
had authorised a direct debit mandate for VFS and it was entitled to be recompensed for the 
fine it had paid.
She noted Ms E had complained that a call had been disconnected when she was 
discussing her complaint with VFS and when she called back the following day a final 
response letter had already been issued. Our investigator didnt think VFS had made any 
error in its handling of the call and she thought the £25 it had waived was fair and 
reasonable.
Ms E didnt agree and said the investigator had been wrong to say the fine would have been 
increased if am appeal had failed.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Es disappointment at receiving a fine, but I dont consider I can uphold 
her complaint. I will explain why.
The council which imposed the fine sends its penalty notices to the registered keeper and it 
seeks payment from them. That means VFS was responsible for paying the fine even though 
Ms E was the driver of the car. It had a responsibility to pay the fine and it did so in good 
time to avoid it being doubled. That means it had 10 days to do so and that short time offers 
a very small window to notify the driver and for them to make an appeal.
I am loathe to comment on the likelihood of a successful appeal, but I dont find the grounds 
put forward by Ms E to be very persuasive. I have also noted that the council website says 
that once a fine is paid it will not entertain an appeal. 
Assuming that rule was in place at the time of this incident there was a risk that unless an 
appeal was made within 10 days of the notice being received then the fine would double. 
However, by paying it within the time limit VFS eliminated the risk of Ms E having to pay 
more. On balance this, combined with the clear evidence that a traffic offence had been 
committed, suggests VFS took a reasonable decision to pay the fine before contacting Ms E.
It was regrettable that it took so long to notify her of the fine and that it took money from her 
account before she received the notice. However, it has said rightly that it cannot be held 
responsible for delivery delays. I note it took more money later on and that was an error 
which was regrettable and for which the £25 waiver is sufficient. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman