DRN-2325761
The complaint
Mr E complains that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) have declined his claim unfairly under his 
pet insurance policy.
 
What happened
Mr E holds an Advanced pet insurance policy for his dog, which began in August 2018. This 
cover was migrated from a previous policy for the same dog which began in August 2015.
Mr E took out cover when his dog was three years old, as Mr E had rescued him. 
In April 2020, Mr E made a claim for the removal of tumours caused by retained testicles. 
The claim was declined as retained testicles arent covered under the policy unless a pet is 
insured before the age of 12 weeks. And both policies that have covered Mr Es dog include 
the same exclusion, which was added to the policy terms in June 2015, before Mr E took out 
cover. 
Mr E rescued his dog when he was three and has always been under the impression that he 
had been neutered. His dogs medical history says he had, and so Mr E said he had no 
reason to doubt it. UKI said they empathised with Mr E and agreed he wouldnt have known 
his dog hadnt been neutered, but they maintained their decision to decline the claim. 
Mr E has provided a copy of a terms and condition booklet that doesnt contain the 
exclusions and so feels he wasnt given a like for like policy when the migration took place. 
However UKI have explained that this booklet is from 2012 and so the wording cant be 
applied to the claim thats been made.
 
It also came to light that Mr Es dog had uveitis. Mr E had made a claim for this previously 
and UKI had been covering the cost of treatment for conjunctivitis. However they then 
determined that it was in fact uveitis and was likely related to his dogs retained testicles. 
Because of this they decided not to pay any further costs relating to the uveitis claim.
 
They explained that they had discussed this with an expert who agreed with their decision 
but said that if Mr E were to send them evidence showing the uveitis was caused by 
something else, they would reconsider the claim.
  
Mr E disagreed. In relation to the claim for his dogs retained testicles, he said the only 
booklet he had was the one he had sent copies of and that he only ever keeps the most 
recent ones hes sent. He says he didnt get an updated policy booklet when the cover 
merged in 2018 and so had been relying on the terms he had, which make no reference to 
secondary conditions. 
He also explained that his dogs eye issue was improving before the treatment to remove the 
tumours, and that he had multiple reports from vets stating the uveitis was not likely to be 
related to the retained testicles. He said the eye condition is still apparent and his dog is still 
receiving treatment for it. He is giving him drops, but every time he stops, the problem gets 
worse again meaning it cant be related. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that UKI had acted fairly in not paying the claim for 
Mr Es dogs treatment. She explained that as Mr Es dog had been insured after he turned 
12 weeks, any claim for retained testicles wouldnt be covered. She also thought it was more 
likely that the booklet Mr E sent copies of was one from 2012. 
In relation to the uveitis, our investigator explained that its not a primary condition, but a 
symptom that had to have been caused by something else. She explained that, as Mr Es 
dogs eyes got better after the tumours were removed, and because the medical evidence 
showed he had inflamed lymph nodes at the time, this proved the two were linked. 
Mr E disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with the investigator. I will explain why.
 
Retained testicles claim
 
Page 14 of Mr Es policy booklet, under section 1, vet fees states:
Whats not covered  applicable to the Essential and Advanced policy. We wont pay 
for:
any treatment in connection with or arising from retained testicle(s) if your pet was over 12 
weeks old on the date cover started for your pet.
This exclusion was also detailed in the previous policy booklet, on page 17, under section 1, 
vet fees.
I understand that Mr E rescued his dog when he was three, meaning he couldnt have 
insured him before he was 12 weeks old. I also note that UKI insured Mr Es dog on the 
basis hed been neutered. Mr E wouldnt have known about the retained testicles. He was 
told the dog was neutered, and the medical records also say this, so I understand why he 
wouldnt have thought to have it checked. 
But even so, when someone rescues a pet, there is always a level of risk involved when it 
comes to insuring them, as their full medical history isnt known. While it is unfortunate, the 
exclusion in the policy is clear, and so I cant say that UKI have been unfair in applying it and 
not paying the claim for the operation to remove the tumours.
 
I note Mr E has provided a photo of the policy document he holds  however UKI have 
explained the number detailed on the back page relates to a policy issued in 2012. So it 
seems more likely that the policy booklet isnt the one sent out when Mr Es policy was 
migrated. Mr E said he didnt receive an update booklet when the policy migrated, but UKI have said 
new documentation would have been sent when the policy was migrated. And theyve sent 
screen shots showing this was done in July 2018. 
Uveitis claim
 
In relation to Mr Es dogs uveitis, the terms of his policy say: 
If two or more claims are first believed to be separate conditions but are later recognised to 
be a recurring condition, bilateral condition, lump or related condition, well add up the 
amounts weve paid for all these claims and not make any more payments during the life of 
your pet once weve paid up to the limits described. 
Again, this was also outlined in the previous policy held by Mr E. 
I have put a lot of thought into this point, but ultimately, I feel UKI have acted fairly. It may 
help for me to explain that it isnt for UKI to prove the uveitis was definitely linked to the 
tumours, but it needs to be most likely. 
I have seen the correspondence from both Mr Es dogs vet, and the eye clinic. Both explain 
that its not likely the uveitis is linked to the presence of the tumours. At the same time, I 
cant see that there is anything else that it could be linked to.
 
I know the vet explained that The CT report however, did show evidence of pancreatitis;
Lobular enlarged pancreas, with surrounding effusion/steatitis. This is consistent with acute
pancreatitis, a disease which can cause systemic inflammation and secondary uveitis. But 
no treatment has ever been given for pancreatitis. A vet who reviewed the claim on behalf of 
UKI explained that if pancreatitis is severe enough to cause uveitis, there would be clinical 
signs like vomiting for example, and nothing like this was reported. They also explained that 
no treatment has been given and there was nothing relating to pancreatitis in the results of 
the blood tests carried out prior to the operation. 
UKI also called the ophthalmology specialists who had written to them explaining they felt 
the claim should be accepted as the two conditions couldnt be linked. The call notes explain 
that during the call the specialist said that in most case the cause of uveitis is idiopathic and 
remains unknown. She said Mr Es dogs uveitis was odd in that it was in both eyes and 
severe. This is what led them to believe there was an underlying condition causing it and 
why they investigated and found the retained testicles and tumours. 
She explained that the inflammation in his abdomen has improved and that the conditions 
probably are related although she could not find any literature about this. She agreed this 
does not mean they were not related. But based on time and proximity they probably are 
related, and she feels UKIs decision is fair. 
I know Mr E has explained that even after the operation, his dogs uveitis continues to flare 
up meaning the two conditions couldnt be linked. I understand his point, but even though the 
uveitis is still present, it doesnt mean it wasnt related to the tumours in the first place. 
I understand why Mr E feels so strongly about his complaint and I can understand his 
reasoning. But having reviewed everything in great detail, I dont think UKI have acted 
unfairly in saying its more likely than not that the uveitis was linked to the tumour growth. 
Because of this, I believe theyve acted fairly and I wont be asking them to do anything 
further.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman