DRN-2232649
The complaint
Mrs H complains that she was mis-sold a life assurance policy by The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc (RBS).
What happened
Mrs H says that she took a mortgage out with RBS in 1982 for a property. Shes explained 
she repaid this mortgage in 1990. Mrs H says she recalls at the time being told to pay an 
additional monthly amount to ensure that her mortgage is repaid if she passed away. Mrs H 
has explained she did this as it was her first house purchase and she felt the advisor was 
being kind.
Mrs H says she recalls paying out to a different insurer as well as the bank. She recently 
raised a complaint as she felt she may have been mis-sold PPI. RBS explained that it didnt 
have any records to say she had PPI. Mrs H says our service told her it sounds more like 
term assurance. RBS wasnt able to locate any records of Mrs H having any policies with it. 
RBS contacted the insurers it worked with at the time but unfortunately no records could be 
located.
Our investigator explained to Mrs H that because so much time has passed, its 
understandable that RBS hasnt been able to locate any documents. She explained that 
without any evidence to show RBS sold this policy to Mrs H, she wasnt able to uphold this 
complaint. Our investigator explained the differences between a PPI policy and a term 
assurance policy and she explained why this may have been sold to Mrs H at the time. But 
she concluded that there was no evidence to suggest RBS had done anything wrong here.
Mrs H asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint. She said she felt that this policy 
may have been sold to her to protect RBS instead of being in her best interests.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Hs recollections are clear that she was sold this policy in 1982 when she took out her 
mortgage. Shes explained she felt that the advisor was being kind in telling her about this 
protection available to her. It does sound likely to me that she was sold a policy which would 
pay off her mortgage in the even that she passed away. And from Mrs Hs recollections, it 
sounds likely that policy was a term assurance policy  this means it wouldve ended when 
her mortgage term ended  which I believe was in 1992. However, theres no evidence to 
suggest it was RBS that was responsible for the sale of this policy. But even if it was, this 
doesnt mean it was mis-sold.
Mrs H has explained she was married, and that the advisor told her she could have a policy 
that would repay the mortgage if shed passed away. This is accurate if she was sold a term 
assurance policy, it wouldve paid out if shed died during the term meaning her loved ones 
wouldnt need to repay the mortgage. Theres nothing to suggest that Mrs H wouldnt have 
benefitted from this policy at the time.
However, as Ive explained theres no evidence to suggest RBS sold Mrs H this policy as this 
took place so long ago. And I think it did everything it could to locate any policy for Mrs H. 
So, it follows that I dont think RBS has done anything wrong in this instance. I do hope that 
Mrs H understands from this decision that not all policies of this type were mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman