DRN-2922221
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the way Millennium Insurance Company Limited has handled 
a claim they made for damage caused by subsidence on their home insurance policy.  
What happened
 Mr and Mrs A have had a subsidence claim ongoing with Millennium since 2012. In 2017, 
they brought a complaint to this service. Following that complaint, a structural engineer was 
appointed to review the damage.
Following the engineers report and a period of monitoring, Mr A complained again in late 
2019. He felt the findings in the report agreed to in 2017 [which were finalised in March 
2019] clearly set out that the property should be underpinned, but Millennium hadnt done 
so. He also complained about delays in the handling of the claim. 
Millennium didnt issue a final response to Mr and Mrs A, so it was considered by one of our 
investigators.
Our investigator thought that whilst the report did recommend underpinning, it also set out 
that removal of trees near the property was likely to resolve the subsidence. Our investigator 
thought it was reasonable for Millennium to consider this as an option. And Millenniums 
subsequent appointment of a tree management specialist was appropriate to give an expert 
opinion on tree management.  
Since the complaint has been with this service, two trees were identified as likely causing the 
subsidence. And the arboricultural report said these needed to be felled at the stumps. The 
trees were found to be owned by the council; it would only agree to the felling of one tree, 
the other it agreed to reduce the crown by 70%. As the trees identified as causing the issue 
had been removed or reduced, our investigator said it was reasonable for a further period of 
monitoring to be carried out, to see if the property had stabilised. He noted Mr As reluctance 
to allow this to happen (he wasnt happy with the conduct of the original monitoring company 
appointed by Millennium). But he felt it was important for monitoring to take place to see if 
the tree management had resolved the issue. 
In relation to the handling of the claim, our investigator didnt think Millennium had done all it 
should have done to move the claim forward. Whilst he noted claims of this nature can be 
lengthy, he estimated Millennium had caused a delay of around nine months in chasing up 
the council and getting a tree specialist appointed. So he thought it should pay £700 
compensation to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it had caused Mr and 
Mrs A by delaying the claim for this amount of time.  
Mr A didnt accept the outcome. He said monitoring had continued following the tree 
management as hed employed the engineer who carried out the report that was finalised in 
2019. He provided this service with a further monitoring report from January 2021. But he 
says the arboricultural report carried out by Millennium said both trees needed to be felled, 
but they hadnt been. He feels this is further evidence that Millennium has acted unfairly 
following the 2019 report. He said approximately two years had been wasted so he 
maintains that underpinning is what should now happen.
Mr A also didnt agree to the compensation figure. He said hes watched his house fall apart 
since 2012 so £700 wasnt enough to compensate for that.
Millennium also didnt accept what our investigator said, it said any delays were as a result 
of the covid-19 pandemic so not in its control. It agreed monitoring the property was the best 
way forward. 
In June 2021, I issued a provisional decision on this case, in which I said:
I appreciate this claim has been ongoing for Mr and Mrs A since 2012, but my review and 
findings below are limited to the events that happened after our services last involvement in 
2017. 
I recognise that the claim has moved on considerably since the complaint has been with our 
service, and as Mr A is still having monitoring done, its difficult for me to bring the claim to a 
resolution for both parties. I appreciate Mr As strength of feeling that underpinning should be 
carried out, but given where the claim now is, Ive set out below that I think the monitoring 
should be concluded first. If the monitoring shows there is still movement, then Im minded to 
say Millennium should underpin the property. 
I understand Mr A is frustrated that the house wasnt underpinned following the 2019 report. 
But having looked at the monitoring results and the commentary, I dont think Millenniums 
decision to pursue the tree management option was unreasonable. 
The monitoring from before 2019 showed fairly small movement in the monitoring sites, and 
the conclusion was that it was seasonal moisture related shrinkage. It identified it was likely 
to be caused by two trees. The report stated it may be difficult to have the trees removed 
(ownership was unclear at that stage). But in appointing an arboricultural consultant  a 
specialist in tree management - and establishing ownership of vegetation, I think Millennium 
was taking a reasonable step in making further enquiries about the trees. And as it turned 
out, the arboricultural consultant who Ill refer to as A was able to identify an owner (the 
local authority) to liaise with. So overall, I dont think Millennium acted unfairly by not 
underpinning the property in 2019. 
But I do agree with our investigator that there were unnecessary delays caused in the 
handling of the claim. 
From Millenniums file, it seems to be that it contacted A in June 2019 [shortly after the 
report was finalised] but it didnt receive a response until November 2019. It transpired A had 
missed the instruction and it had only been picked up by a manual review. Between June 
and November 2019, I cant see that this was chased by Millennium. Once A realised its 
mistake, the appointment was then booked for early December 2019. So I think its 
reasonable to conclude the report would have been done much quicker had Millennium 
proactively chased the instruction.
I also consider there were further delays after this point. A was liaising with the council in 
January 2020 to remove the trees, but no further update was provided until Millennium 
chased this up in May 2020. It seems to me that this was chased by Millennium as Mr and 
Mrs A had sent in a pre-action letter from their legal representative in May 2020. Millennium 
has said any delays were not due to its handling, but the covid-19 pandemic.
I accept it seems to have taken the council longer than normal to approve the plan to remove 
the trees due to some of its staff being on furlough. But this doesnt explain no progress 
being made between January and the end of March 2020. And once Millennium had 
received the legal threat from Mr and Mrs A in May 2020, it became much more proactive in 
chasing A (and therefore the council) into a response, which was then received in July 2020. 
So Im satisfied there was some unnecessary delay here, which I find has caused distress to 
Mr and Mrs A. They say living with the damage in their home has had a negative impact on 
their wellbeing, and whilst claims of this nature are lengthy, I think Millenniums actions have 
caused some delay in moving the claim forward. Mr A has raised further issues with Millenniums handling of the claim, he says when A came 
to view the site in December 2019, he wasnt informed. He says he saw an individual looking 
around his property and when he challenged the individual, they lied about who they were 
working for. He says this shows Millenniums poor conduct. I can see from Millenniums file 
that when A was appointed, it noted that Mr A wouldnt be informed. I cant see any reason 
why Mr A shouldnt have been informed about the visit. I consider finding someone near his 
property carrying out an inspection would cause some unnecessary worry. 
I recognise Mr A feels £700 is insufficient for the length of time hes been living with damage 
to his home, but thats not what an award for distress and inconvenience is for. As I said 
above, its unfortunate that claims of this nature can take a long time, even when progressed 
well by all parties. And having damage caused by subsidence to your home will always 
cause some level of inconvenience and worry. But we can make awards where a firms 
handling has unnecessarily added to that distress and inconvenience. And as outlined above 
I think Millennium has caused some delays, so Im still minded to say it needs to pay £700 
as compensation for this. 
Tree management
In November 2020 one of the trees identified in the reports had been felled, and the other 
had the crown reduced by 70%. This was because the council wouldnt agree to both trees 
being felled. Mr As said this again shows Millennium are ignoring the reports that have been 
carried out which is delaying the claim. Ive reviewed As report, it does say that both trees 
should be felled. I havent been provided with any evidence from Millennium which supports 
that reducing the tree by 70% would be sufficient to resolve the subsidence. I accept its 
possible it will; as reducing the crown of the tree by this amount should reduce the amount of 
moisture the tree will remove from the soil. But as the monitoring isnt yet finished, theres no 
way for me to decide at this point whether Millennium should have acted differently when the 
council only agreed to fell one tree. 
Mr A also has concerns about whether the tree has been reduced  hes sent photographs 
of the tree which show its height. The reduction of the tree was done to the crown only, so I 
wouldnt expect this to necessarily reduce the height of the trunk. So Mr As photos dont 
show Millennium hasnt ensured the tree has been reduced by the amount agreed. 
Millennium has sent the invoice for the works. The invoice does read a 70% reduction of the 
tree was charged for. Overall, I havent seen anything that suggests this hasnt been done. 
So I havent seen enough to say the tree hasnt been reduced as agreed.
Mr A has continued monitoring on his property at his own expense. He provided monitoring 
from January 2021, but due to the wet weather over the spring months, says the next report 
isnt due until the summer. Millennium has said it will reimburse Mr A for the monitoring cost, 
so long as they are in line with the market costs. I think this is reasonable and something Id 
expect Millennium to do. If the monitoring shows the property is now stable, Id expect 
Millennium to progress the repair works without delay. 
Once the monitoring is complete, if the property isnt stable, then Im minded to say 
Millennium will need to underpin Mr and Mrs As property. I say this as any further tree 
management would cause further delays for Mr and Mrs A and the 2019 report set out 
underpinning as the other alternative to resolving the issue. As Millennium has already 
explored the option of tree management, it is reasonable that it should now follow the 
recommendations of the report.  Whilst it is Mr A whos instructed the monitoring company, it 
is the same company who carried out the 2019 report both parties agreed to, so I see no 
reason why its report shouldnt be relied on to determine the stability of the property.
Millennium didnt respond to my provisional decision.Mr and Mrs A responded. In summary they said they wouldnt end the monitoring until they 
were satisfied theres been a sufficient amount of dry weather to adequately test whether the 
trees are taking all the moisture from the ground. They said this will delay repairs and is 
another reason why underpinning should have happened. 
They also said Millenniums loss adjuster has no professional qualifications for engineering 
or tree management and so shouldnt have been allowed to make the decision on the 
removal of only on tree. 
Since I issued my provisional findings, Mr and Mrs A asked for any monitoring to continue 
until November 2022, Millennium has accepted that and has agreed to pay for the 
monitoring. It has however asked for any interim invoices and monitoring reports already 
carried out to be shared with it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept Mr and Mrs As point that Millenniums loss adjuster isnt the expert here. But what 
Im being asked to decide is whether Millennium should now underpin the property, and at 
the moment, I havent seen enough to say that it should.
The tree specialist report did outline that two trees needed to be removed, and only one of 
the two trees identified was felled. The other was reduced by 70%. But this isnt because 
Millennium chose to ignore the advice of the tree specialist, it is because the council wouldnt 
agree to both of the trees being felled. As I said in my provisional decision, it may be that 
reducing the second tree isnt sufficient to stabilise the property, but without monitoring 
theres no way to decide that. Millennium could have considered underpinning the property 
when the council wouldnt agree to the second tree being removed. But having considered 
everything, I dont think it was unreasonable that it decided to pursue the tree management. I 
say this because the original report showed the movement was fairly minimal. And tree 
management is an accepted way to successfully resolve seasonal moisture related 
shrinkage. I appreciate Mr and Mrs A feel strongly that the experts have been ignored, but I 
havent seen enough to say Millennium should have underpinned the property rather than 
allow the tree management to happen. 
Mr and Mrs A say the ground where they live is currently saturated owing to recent 
thunderstorms. So they want the monitoring to continue until they think an adequate dry spell 
has passed. Both parties have now agreed to continue monitoring until November 2022. If 
the property is stable at that point, Millennium should arrange the necessary repair works 
without delay. If it isnt stable, then I still think Millennium is required to should underpin the 
property. 
Millennium has asked that Mr and Mrs A share any monitoring reports carried out so far, as 
well as any interim invoices, this seems reasonable to me. 
Having reviewed everything again, I still think Millennium should pay £700 for the distress 
and inconvenience caused by unnecessary delays in the claim up until January 2021. I 
understand this has been a lengthy process for Mr and Mrs A, but my findings on delays 
caused by Millennium are only since 2019. Neither party has presented anything that makes 
me think the compensation amount should differ from what I set out in my provisional 
decision, so that is what Millennium now needs to pay.  
My final decision My final decision is that monitoring of Mr and Mrs As property should end in November 
2022. If at that stage the property is stable, Millennium Insurance Company Limited should 
carry out the necessary repairs to Mr and Mrs As property without delay. If it isnt stable, 
Millennium Insurance Company Limited is required to underpin Mr and Mrs As property. 
Millennium Insurance Company Limited also needs to pay Mr and Mrs A £700 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman