DRN-3882265
The complaint
Miss L complains Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk (Valour) gave her a loan 
which she says was unaffordable.  
What happened
Miss L was advanced one loan from Valour on 25 November 2020. She was advanced 
£1,300 and she was contracted to make 15 monthly repayments of £173.33. Valour says this 
loan was settled on time and Miss L didnt incur any late fees.  
Following Miss Ls complaint Valour wrote to her to explain that it wasnt going to uphold her 
complaint because it carried out proportionate checks which showed it Miss L would be in a 
position to afford her loan repayments. 
Miss L, unhappy with this response, referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman.
 
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint, and she didnt uphold it. She said the information 
Valour gathered from Miss L (income, expenditure and a credit check) showed she was able 
to afford the loan and she couldnt see anything within the checks which may have indicated 
Miss L was having (or likely having) financial difficulties. 
Valour didnt respond to the adjudicators assessment. 
Miss L didnt agree with the outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review the case 
because she believes it was irresponsible for Valour to have provided the loan. As no 
agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Valour had to assess the lending to check if Miss L could afford to pay back the amount 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Valours checks couldve taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ls 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Valour should have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss L. These factors include:
Miss L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss L.
Valour was required to establish whether Miss L could sustainably repay the loan  not just 
whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss L was able to repay her 
loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ls complaint.
For this loan, Miss L declared she had a monthly income of around £1,600 which was made 
up of a salary and benefits. Valour says as part of its income verification checks, it 
discovered that within the last year, Miss Ls lowest monthly salary was £1,305  and it was 
this figure that was used when carrying out its affordability assessment rather than the figure 
Miss L provided on the verification telephone call.  
Miss L declared total monthly outgoings of £923.50. This left, Miss L with at least £381.50 
(based on the lower income figure) of monthly disposable income to be able to afford the 
contractual repayments. Based on Valours income and expenditure check, the loan 
appeared affordable for her. 
Valour has also said, it carried out a credit search and it has provided the 
Financial Ombudsman with the results that it received from the credit reference agency. It is 
worth saying that there was no requirement within the regulations at the time for Valour to 
have carried out a credit search let alone one to a specific standard. The data that Valour 
received may also not be the same as the information Miss L can see in her credit report. 
There are a number of reasons for this, including but not limited to;
Delays in reporting information to the credit reference agencies by other credit 
providers. 
Not all lenders report to all credit refence agencies  which can mean that a lender 
may not be aware of some or all adverse credit file data.
A lender may only request certain information from the credit reference agencies 
such as the number of defaults within the last 12 months rather than how many 
defaults are recorded on the credit file in total.  
But what Valour couldnt do is carry out a credit search and then not react to any concerning 
information that it may have seen. But it was entitled to rely on the information it received 
from the credit reference agency. Looking at credit file data provided by Valour it was aware of two active mail order accounts, 
one account Miss L was paying £15 per month towards and another that had a balance of 
just over £4,100. It also knew that Miss L had a current bank account and two 
comms/supply accounts. On the verification call Miss L confirmed she had two mobile 
phone contracts, so this is likely to be those. 
All of these accounts were up to date with no indication that Miss L was either struggling to 
repay these balances or had any missed payment markers recorded against her. 
The information that Valour had from the credit reference agencies didnt suggest that Miss L 
would likely have problems repaying her loan or had problems repaying existing debt. I 
accept, that the information Valour saw may not reflect exactly what Miss L can see in her 
full, credit report. For example, Valour wasnt aware of the loan Miss L took in October 2020 
from another high-cost credit provider, and Ive explained the reasons why that may be the 
case above. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Valour to
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Miss L had provided.
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for
Valour to have relied on the information Miss L provided. This along with the income and
expenditure figures, verification call and the credit search showed she had sufficient 
disposable income to afford the repayments she was committed to making. So, Im not 
upholding Miss Ls complaint about this loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman