DRN-3590077
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited declined a claim they made under their 
buildings insurance policy for subsidence.
Mrs G has primarily dealt with the claim and complaint, so Ill refer to her only.
My provisional decision
I recently issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G got in touch with Aviva after she noticed damage to her garden wall. She said 
it appeared to be sinking into the ground and provided photos.
Aviva declined the claim by relying on a policy term. This says, in summary, that 
damage to walls caused by subsidence is only covered where theres also a 
subsidence problem with the main house.
Its generally good industry practice for an insurer to send an appropriately qualified 
and experienced person to inspect property damage. But only where the 
circumstances suggest a claim might be covered by the policy.
Here theres been no suggestion the main house has suffered any damage. The 
photos show the wall is separate to the house and so I dont think it could reasonably 
be considered a part of the main house.
So if the wall had subsided, the policy term Aviva raised would likely have applied. If 
it hadnt subsided, its unclear that it would be covered in any other way by the policy.
Because of that, Im satisfied it was reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim. So I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
Mrs G is entitled to take advice about the cause of damage and share the findings 
with Aviva. If she does so, I would expect Aviva to consider the matter further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Mrs G responded to let us know the wall had been taken down.
As neither party disagreed with or commented on my findings, I see no reason to change my 
mind.
I remain satisfied Aviva acted fairly when it declined the claim, for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman