DRN-1472960
The complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs L took out a Halifax mortgage in 2001. At or around the same time, Halifax sold her PPI, 
the cost of which was paid by monthly premium. The PPI covered Mrs Ls monthly 
repayments if she couldnt work due to disability and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mrs L disagreed, so the case 
was passed to me to review afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ls case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs L says she didnt know PPI had been added. Unfortunately, I cant know for sure what, if 
anything, was discussed at the time. And Halifax no longer holds a copy of, say, a PPI 
application form that might have been completed. I understand Mrs Ls frustration with the 
lack of information, but I dont find it surprising given the time thats since passed since the 
sale took place. 
I recognise its possible Mrs Ls recollections of the sale are accurate. But, Im mindful that 
its at least equally possible that she was told at the time the PPI was separate and optional 
and has since forgotten agreeing to take it. 
Taking everything into account, I dont believe I have enough evidence with which to uphold 
the complaint on these grounds. 
I believe Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs L. So, among other things, it had to take steps 
to make sure it was right for her. I dont know if it did that, but I believe it was right for her in 
any case. For example, Mrs L was eligible for the PPI. And it doesnt appear that she was 
significantly affected by any of the main things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
Mrs L says she was entitled to generous sick pay from her public sector employer, which she 
says meant she didnt need PPI. But the PPI would have paid out on top of that and for up to 
24 months per claim if Mrs L was off work. It covered unemployment too. So, I think Mrs L 
would still have found the PPI useful, not least because the mortgage was a major financial 
commitment and the potential consequences of not keeping up with the monthly payments 
were significant.
Ive thought about the fact that Mrs L believes she was in stable employment but there was 
no guarantee that would continue to be the case. And Im satisfied the PPI was different 
enough to the endowment policy she says she held. Thats because the endowment would 
have paid a lump sum on her death whereas the PPI paid a monthly benefit in the event of 
disability or unemployment. Im satisfied the policies paid out for different things.
While Mrs L believes she held enough equity in her property should things go wrong, the PPI 
might have meant her avoiding having to sell her home  and move her children  if she 
wasnt working.
Ive no reason to think the monthly premium was unaffordable for Mrs L. Whats more, the 
PPI was flexible in that she could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if she 
decided she no longer wanted it.
Halifax also had to give Mrs L good enough information about the PPI. This was so she 
could make an informed decision about buying it. As I say, I believe its just as likely as not 
that she wanted to take out the cover. And I cant, for the same reasons I think the PPI was 
right for her, see what other information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out  it 
provided useful benefits at a cost that I believe was affordable for her. 
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Ls lost out because of how Halifax sold her 
the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman