DRN-3770848
The complaint
Mr G complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter) damaged his car when it was being
recovered, under his roadside assistance policy.
What happened
In April 2022 Mr G contacted Inter for assistance as his car developed a flat tyre. He says
when the roadside assistance arrived his space saver spare wheel was fitted to his car. He
then drove to a local garage to have a new tyre fitted. Mr G says this couldnt be done as the
garage found damage preventing the tyre being replaced. He says the wheel bolts were also
found to be damaged.
Mr G points out that a van and a flat-bed truck turned up to help him by the roadside. But the
truck wasnt used to transport his car to the garage.
Inter says its operator informed Mr G at the roadside that the space saver wheel needed its
own set of bolts. Those used for the full wheel were too long and would prevent the wheel
from turning if used. It says Mr G didnt have the correct set of wheel nuts, so its operator
used a set of washers that allowed the original bolts to be used.
Inter says its operator followed Mr G when he drove to the garage and removed the space
saver wheel replacing it with the original wheel that had the flat tyre. It says its operator is
positive he replaced all five of the wheel bolts and all was in good order when he left. Mr G
later told Inter that damage had been caused as a result of the roadside assistance and
repairs were needed.
Inter says Mr G provided an estimate for the cost of repairs from the main dealer for his
make of car towards the end of April 2022. There would be a few weeks wait for the repairs
to be completed, so Mr G advised he would look to obtain the parts and use another garage.
Inter says it contacted three garages in the area with the business name provided by Mr G. It
says one garage confirmed it had seen the car and fitted a new wheel. It says the car had
been collected. However, on discussion with Mr G he was adamant the car was still with the 
garage. Inter says it wasnt able to verify this was the case. It says it didnt think its operative
had caused damage and so didnt uphold the complaint.
Inter says the flatbed truck was in attendance to deal with another job after its operative had
dealt with Mr Gs flat tyre. It says the truck wasnt in attendance in relation to Mr Gs call out.
Mr G says he has now had to make a claim through his insurance for the damage. He says
he needs his car to work and has lost earnings as a result. Because he wasnt satisfied with
Inters response he referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld Mr Gs
complaint. She thought the evidence supported his testimony that his car hadnt been
repaired as he couldnt afford it, and that his car was still at the garage.
Our investigator thought it more likely than not that Inters operative caused or contributed to
the damage caused to the wheel, hub, and bolts. She says its fair that it pays for these
repairs, that it considers Mr Gs loss of earnings on provision of evidence and pays him £250
compensation.
Inter didnt agree. It says it isnt conclusive that its operative caused the damage and any
delays in repairs are the fault of a third-party garage. Inter says Mr G couldve mitigated any
loss of earnings if his vehicle was being used commercially, by arranging use of a hire car.
Because it didnt agree it asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2022 explaining that I was intending to uphold 
Mr Gs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Let me explain.
From the records supplied by Inter, its roadside assistance operative explained to Mr G that
the bolts needed for the space saver wheel were shorter than those for the wheel it was
replacing. The notes say Mr G didnt think this was correct. The operative demonstrated this
to Mr G by fitting the space saver wheel and loosely tightening the bolts to show the wheel
wouldnt turn.
The records say Inters operative had a set of washers available for these circumstances.
This allowed him to fit the space saver wheel using the bolts available which meant Mr G
could drive to the nearest garage, which was close by. On arrival the operative removed the
spacers he had used and replaced the space saver with the full wheel that had the flat tyre.
The records say the operative is 99% sure he fitted all the wheel bolts before he left.
Ive read the email Mr G supplied from the garage toward the end of May 2022. It says Mr
Gs vehicle was brought in during April with a completely flat off-side front tyre. It says the
tyre wall was shredded and only two bolts were in place. The garage says the remaining
three bolts were found in the boot and had clearly been cross threaded. The email says it
wasnt happy replacing the tyre as there were only two nuts holding the wheel on. It says the
car was moved to its staff car park area where it has remained.
I have thought about Inters comments that Mr Gs wheel and tyre were replaced toward the
end of April 2022. This is at odds with his testimony that repairs are still outstanding. From
the records Inter contacted three garages to ask about Mr Gs car. I think the likelihood is
that an error was made by one of these garages in advising the repairs were completed in
April.
I say this because Mr G has supplied a statutory off-road notice (SORN) that shows his car
was being kept off the road from April 2022. He also sent a photo taken of the damaged
tyre/wheel, which shows the badly damaged tyre and only two bolts holding the wheel in
place. Together with the garages email Mr G supplied, Im more persuaded that repairs
hadnt been completed in April as Mr G couldnt afford it.
Ive read the estimate Mr G received from the main dealership. This is dated toward the end
of April 2022 and details work for £1,079.39. Mr G says he made a claim to his insurer in
May as he was unable to pay for the repairs.Based on the evidence and circumstances Im more persuaded by Mr Gs account that
damage was caused by Inters roadside assistance operative.
Inters operative confirms the bolts used werent the correct ones designed for use with the
space saver wheel. In these circumstances I think its more likely than not that this is how
damage was caused to the wheel, hub, and the bolts. I note Inters comments that all five
bolts were fitted when its operative refitted the wheel with the damaged tyre. But the garage
the car was taken to says this wasnt the case and only two bolts were in place. This is
supported by the photo Mr G supplied. The garage says the remainder of the bolts were in
the boot, with damaged threads and that a new wheel, hub, and bolts are needed because
of the damage caused when the car was driven on the space saver wheel.
In these circumstances its fair that Inter pays for the repairs for damage caused to the
wheel, hub, and bolts.
I have thought about what Mr G said that he hasnt been able to work as a result of his car
being off the road. He told us that he uses his car to work as a delivery driver and this has
meant he hasnt been able to work since the incident occurred in April 2022. However, he
hasnt provided any evidence to support his loss of earnings. That said as he needed a car
for his livelihood, Id expect Mr G to try and mitigate his losses. If he couldnt afford the
repairs, then he couldve mitigated this by borrowing funds needed for the repairs. Hes not
shown that he tried to mitigate these losses.
But I think Inter put Mr G in a difficult position when damage was caused to his car. I think
its likely this was caused by its actions during the roadside recovery. Mr G has had to spend
additional time contacting the business, which has been frustrating and stressful. he says
this also placed a strain on his marriage, due to his inability to help pay the mortgage or
other bills.
In summary, I dont think Inter treated Mr G fairly when providing its roadside assistance
service, which has resulted in damage to his car. It should therefore pay the cost of the
repairs or refund his policy excess payment, as well as £250 compensation for the distress,
frustration and inconvenience caused. But I dont think Mr G has reasonably shown that Inter
should compensate him for loss of earnings.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and Inter should:
pay Mr G £250 compensation for the distress, frustration, and inconvenience he was
caused;
pay for the cost of repairs/replacement wheel, hub, and wheel bolts; or
pay the cost of Mr Gs insurance policy excess if his insurer has paid for these
repairs.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Neither party responded with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Inter Partner Assistance SA should:
pay Mr G £250 compensation for the distress, frustration, and inconvenience he was
caused;
pay for the cost of repairs/replacement wheel, hub, and wheel bolts; or
pay the cost of Mr Gs insurance policy excess if his insurer has paid for these
repairs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman