DRN-3575996
The complaint
Mr S complains that OAKBROOK FINANCE LIMITED trading as Likely Loans lent money to 
him on a high cost loan irresponsibly, such that he was unable to afford the loan 
repayments.
What happened
Likely Loans provided Mr S with a loan of £3,000 on 23 October 2015 repayable over 48 
months at the monthly rate of about £144. He made the required payments up until October 
2016. After that he entered into a debt management plan and made reduced payments until 
December 2017. After that he didnt contact Likely Loans again, and the loan was sold on to 
a third party in January 2019. 
Mr S complained to Likely Loans that the loan was unaffordable to him as it was provided to 
him at a time when he was behind with his credit payments and had two overdrafts of £1500 
each.
Likely Loans said it carried out normal verification checks of Mr Ss income and credit 
worthiness. The loan having been issued more than six years ago, it has limited 
documentation. However from its checks it said that Mr S was able to afford the loan and 
wasnt expending a large part of his income on credit.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that the checks carried 
out by Likely Loans showed the loan was affordable.
Mr S disagreed and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Likely Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr S 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr S would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required Likely Loans to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Mr Ss ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so Likely Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that it had to ensure that 
making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Mr S undue difficulty or significant 
adverse consequences. That means he should have been able to meet repayments out of 
normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without failing to make any 
other payment he had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and without the 
repayments having a significant adverse impact on his financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for Likely Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr S. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
As Ive said, Likely Loans documentation for Mr Ss loan is limited. Theres no copy of the 
credit check carried out in 2015, but Likely Loans has set out the data extracted from the 
check. This showed that Mr S had revolving credit (credit cards and/ or bank overdrafts) of 
around £1,890 and other loans totalling £500. The records showed that Mr S had two 
overdrafts each of £500, not £1,500 as Mr S had asserted. Mr S had three defaulted 
accounts more than 30 months old on which he was paying £13 a month. The new loan was 
to be towards wedding costs so didnt include consolidation of any old loans. Nevertheless 
his total credit commitments with the new loan instalment amounted to around 17% of his 
verified income of around £1,600. The loan should have been affordable unless Mr Ss other 
financial commitments meant he couldnt afford the loan.
When it comes to assessing outgoings its reasonable to rely on figures given by the 
customer, and the £1,150 Mr S had declared for his outgoings appears reasonable to me. 
This would have left him with a monthly disposable income of around £190 after paying the 
new loan instalment. 
I fully appreciate that Mr Ss credit record wasnt perfect at the time of the loan, but these 
sorts of loans can be available to people who may have had difficulties. I appreciate that he 
appeared to have struggled in the past, also that his financial position might have changed 
after the loan was issued to him. But I think that Likely Loans reasonably assessed the loan 
as being affordable for Mr S following its checks at the time of his applying for the loan. So I 
think it made a fair lending decision.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman