DRN-1605807
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc (trading as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr K was sold a PPI policy when he took out a personal loan with Santander on the internet 
in 2008. The policy protected his monthly loan repayments payments if he was unable to 
work because of an accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Santander didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ks case. Having done so, Im upholding his 
complaint for reasons that Ill now explain.
Theres not much documentation available about this PPI sale. But both Santander and Mr K 
say that it was a regular premium policy which was sold, so Ive taken this to be the case. 
As the policy wasnt recommended to Mr K by Santander, it didnt need to ensure that it was 
suitable for him. But it did still need to give Mr K enough information about the policy so that 
he could decide if it was right for him.
Santander has provided prints of the screens which it says Mr K would have seen when he 
was applying for his loan. And I can see that, during the internet application process, he was 
given a choice about whether or not he wanted to take out PPI with his loan. But I cant see 
anything that makes me think Mr K would have been made sufficiently aware of the cost of 
the policy by Santander at that time. 
Santander has provided a copy of the loan agreement which Mr K was sent to sign after his 
application. But theres no mention of the PPI policy sold with the loan in this agreement. 
Santander says details about the policy and its cost would have been included in a PPI 
covering letter contained in the Welcome Pack. Although Santander dont still have a copy 
of the letter it sent to Mr K, its provided a sample version to us.  And its also provided a 
copy of the policy document which it says would have been included in the pack. But, like 
the loan agreement, these would have been sent to Mr K after hed already been sold the 
PPI policy during the initial loan application process.
In responding to our adjudicators view, Santander has said that during the loan application 
process Mr K would have been given the opportunity to use an online calculator to obtain more information about the cost of the PPI policy. But Santander have acknowledged that 
this cost would only have been an estimate, based on a typical interest rate for a loan, which 
wouldnt have been right for all applicants. In any case, I dont think the provision of this 
optional, online loan calculator gave Mr K enough - easily accessible - information about the 
cost of the PPI at the time of this sale.
So, based on all the information available to me, I dont think that Mr K was made sufficiently 
aware of the cost of the PPI policy at the time it was sold to him. And I think that this cost 
information would have been important to Mr K in making his decision about buying it. I say 
this because, having considered the potential benefit of the PPI policy to Mr K, I dont think 
he would still have wanted to buy it if hed been made fully aware at the time of the sale of 
the policys cost. I think he would have thought the policy didnt represent good value for 
money.
Ive thought about all the reasons Santander has given for thinking the PPI wasnt mis-sold, 
but these havent changed my mind. I still think that Mr K has lost out because of failings by 
Santander in the way in which it sold Mr K this PPI policy.
Putting things right
Santander should put Mr K in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. So 
Santander should:
 
Pay Mr K the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
 
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 
If Mr K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him. Santander can also take off any 
compensation its already paid to Mr K for the excess commission and profit share it 
received on this sale.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander 
must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Santander UK Plc. I direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mr K 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman