DRN-4506456
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain that Aviva Insurance Limited turned down a medical expenses claim 
they made on a travel insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs Y are represented by Ms F
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs Y have travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account. In March
2022, Mr and Mrs Y went through medical screening with Aviva and declared a number of
pre-existing medical conditions. Amongst other conditions, Mrs Y told Aviva that she had
asthma. Aviva decided to exclude asthma from cover  which meant it wouldnt cover any
claims which were directly or indirectly linked to it. It sent Mr and Mrs Y a letter which
confirmed which conditions it had decided to insure and which it had decided to decline.
In May 2022, Mr and Mrs Y were abroad with Ms F. Unfortunately, Mrs Y became very
unwell and had to be admitted to hospital. Mr Y and Ms F had to extend their trip to remain
abroad with her while she underwent treatment. So Ms F made a medical expenses claim on
Mr and Mrs Ys behalf.
Aviva investigated the claim and it obtained medical evidence from the hospital which was
treating Mrs Y. It noted that Mrs Y had been diagnosed with bronchospasm secondary to a
lower respiratory tract infection and that the report had also listed bronchial asthma as a
diagnosis. So it concluded that the claim was directly related to Mrs Ys existing asthma,
which it had excluded from cover. Therefore, it turned down Mr and Mrs Ys claim.
Mr and Mrs Y were unhappy with Avivas decision and they appealed. They provided a
report from a consultant in the UK. The consultant said theyd reviewed Mrs Ys case notes
and considered shed been hospitalised due to community acquired pneumonia.
However, Aviva maintained its stance and so Ms F asked us to look into Mr and Mrs Ys
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ys complaint should be upheld. He thought Aviva
had made it clear that it had excluded claims which were directly or indirectly related to Mrs
Ys existing asthma. And he thought it was fair for Aviva to rely on the medical evidence
provided by Mrs Ys treating specialists to conclude that the claim wasnt covered. He
considered the UK consultants report but thought it had been reasonable for Aviva to place
more weight on the evidence dating from the time of Mrs Ys admission. Overall, he didnt
think it had been unfair for Aviva to turn down Mr and Mrs Ys claim.
Ms F disagreed on Mr and Mrs Ys behalf and Ive summarised her response. She
considered that the diagnosis given by the consultants abroad hadnt fully been taken into
account. She felt the diagnosis had been brought into disrepute and that the treating
consultants integrity and knowledge was of little consequence. She said the consultants had
been emphatic that the illness was airborne and of a community nature. Ms F didnt think it
was acceptable that Aviva had taken 11-12 days to let Mr and Mrs Y know either that the
claim wouldnt be covered, or that there was a cheaper hospital facility. The additional stress
had had a significant impact on Mr and Mrs Y and that was why it had been advisable to
leave Mrs Y in the hospital which was already offering her treatment. Ms F said that had they
been told earlier that the claim wouldnt be covered, the outcome might have been different
I issued a provisional decision on 26 October 2023, which explained why I thought it had 
been fair for Aviva to turn down Mr and Mrs Ys claim, but why I thought there had been 
failings in the way it had handled the claim. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things,
the policy terms and the available medical evidence, to decide whether Aviva treated Mr and
Mrs Y fairly.
Was it fair for Aviva to turn down the claim?
It's common ground that in March 2022, Mr and Mrs Y went through a medical screening
with Aviva. During that screening, Mr and Mrs Y declared several medical conditions,
including that Mrs Y suffered from asthma. Based on its assessment of Mr and Mrs Ys
health, Aviva decided to exclude cover for any claims caused directly or indirectly by Mrs Ys
asthma. It sent Mrs Y a follow-up letter which set out a list of the conditions which had been
declared and which indicated whether each condition had been accepted or excluded from
cover. The letter clearly states that in Mrs Ys case, both asthma and asthma diagnosed over
age 50 were excluded from cover. The letter said:
If a medical condition is Excluded the policy will not cover claims for anyone insured on the
policy arising directly or indirectly from the declared condition.
The letter also explicitly stated: Excluded conditions will not be covered by this policy.
In my view, Aviva made it sufficiently clear that it had decided not to insure Mrs Ys asthma
and what the impact of this exclusion was on the cover provided by the policy. Ms F 
acknowledges that Mr and Mrs Y were aware of the exclusion and that it meant claims
arising from asthma wouldnt be covered.
Aviva assessed the available medical evidence, including seeking the opinion of clinical
members of staff. It concluded that Mrs Ys admission was caused directly by her existing
asthma and therefore, wasnt covered. Ms F, on the other hand, feels strongly that Mrs Y
was diagnosed with and suffering from community acquired pneumonia  an infection which
wasnt linked to asthma. So Ive looked carefully at the medical evidence both parties have
provided to decide whether I think Aviva reached a fair conclusion, based on the information
it had available.
Firstly, Ive looked carefully at the medical reports provided by the treating hospital during
Mrs Ys admission. An entry in Avivas medical assistance teams records show that the
hospital provided a clinical judgment of:
Lower respiratory airway infection
Hyperreactivity of airways (eosinophilic asthma).
Further medical reports provided to Aviva by the treating hospital stated:
Diagnosis: Episode of a severe bronchospasm secondary to a respiratory infection.Bronchial Asthma.
It appears that Avivas medical assistance team also spoke with Mrs Ys treating doctor on
12 May 2022 and the following note was made:
Advised dx (diagnosed) severe respiratory infection this led to decompensation due to
asthma  causing admission.
Advised progress is low as asthma difficult to control  stopped cough medication which
caused deterioration. Confirmed respiratory infection exacerbated by asthma causing
hospital admission.
Based on the medical evidence available to Aviva during Mrs Ys admission, I dont think it
was unfair or unreasonable for it to conclude that her hospitalisation was at least indirectly
caused by asthma. It does appear from the treating specialists comments that it was the
existing asthma which had led to Mrs Y decompensating and therefore requiring hospital
admission.
In August 2022, following Mr and Mrs Ys return to the UK, Mrs Y was seen by a consultant
chest physician. Mr and Mrs Y sent a copy of the consultants report to Aviva. Ive set out
what I think were the key findings:
In May she was admitted to hospital with community-acquired pneumonia. I have been
through the translated notes carefullyshe had a raised CRP indicating that the dominant
problem was a community-acquired pneumonia.
Aviva reviewed the report, as Id reasonably expect it to do. A doctor from its clinical team
with specialist knowledge of lung disorders re-reviewed all of the available medical evidence.
So, Ive set out what I think are Avivas doctors main conclusions:
As stated clearly in the medical report, the leading cause of admission in this case was
bronchospasm. This was secondary to an exacerbation of the underlying severe eosinophilic
asthma which was triggered by a LRTI. In the absence of the underlying bronchial 
hyperreactivity, neither of the predisposing factors above would have likely lead to an 
admission on their own, therefore eosinophilic asthma was the main cause of admission.
It is impossible to establish which of the contributing factorswere proportionally more
responsible for the chest infection that led to the asthma exacerbation, what is
incontrovertible is that without the well known underlying asthma they would have not led to
admission
Ive considered all of the medical evidence very carefully. Its important I make it clear that
Im not a medical expert and it isnt my role to substitute clinical judgement with my own.
Instead, Ive considered which evidence I find most persuasive as to whether Mrs Ys claim
was directly or indirectly related to her excluded condition.
It's clear another specialist consultant reached a view that Mrs Ys condition was community-
acquired pneumonia  which appears to be an airborne infection. However, Ive borne in
mind that this consultants review took place around three months after Mrs Ys illness
abroad and wasnt based on a contemporaneous review of her condition during the material
time. Therefore, I currently think it was fair and reasonable for Aviva to place more weight on
the contemporaneous medical evidence it was provided with by the doctors treating Mrs Y
during her admission. Thats because the treating doctors had the opportunity to examine
Mrs Y first-hand during the period of her hospitalisation and decide on the most likely cause
of her admission.As Ive set out above, it seems one of her treating doctors told Aviva that the cause of Mrs
Ys hospitalisation was a severe respiratory infection which had decompensated due to
asthma. And that the available medical reports shows that bronchial asthma was one of the
overall diagnoses reached. On that basis, I dont think it was unreasonable for Aviva to
decide either that Mrs Ys asthma significantly exacerbated her condition or that it was
related to the cause of the claim. So it follows that whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs
Y, I currently find it was fair for Aviva to conclude that the claim was specifically excluded
from cover. This means I dont currently intend to direct Aviva to accept or settle this claim.
Did Aviva handle the claim fairly?
Ms F has raised concerns about the service Avivas medical assistance team provided. Ive
thought about this carefully. I can see that when it investigated Mr and Mrs Ys complaint,
Aviva noted that it hadnt set expectations with Mr and Mrs Y as to what was happening with
the claim and that it had been in a position to tell Mr and Mrs Y that the claim wasnt covered
two days earlier than it actually did. It also appears that there were times when Aviva failed
to communicate with Ms F, despite requests. In my view then, there were clear failings in the
way Aviva handled this claim  which Aviva appeared to recognise itself, although it didnt
offer any compensation.
I appreciate Ms F says that had the claim been turned down earlier, or if theyd been advised
of a cheaper facility earlier, they may have been in a position to move Mrs Y. Ive thought
about this carefully and whether I think Avivas failings caused Mrs Y to remain in a more
expensive hospital longer than she ought to have done.
The evidence indicates that Aviva had decided, on 16 May 2022, that the claim wasnt
covered. I think this was the point it had enough clear evidence to show that the claim was
excluded. Prior to that, although a claim decline appeared to be a reasonable possibility,
Avivas clinical team wanted to review further medical evidence. I think this was reasonable.
But Aviva didnt communicate its decision of 16 May 2022 to Ms F until 18 May 2022. 
On the other hand, Im mindful that even when Mr and Mrs Y did learn that their claim had
been declined, they opted for Mrs Y to remain in the more expensive hospital, despite
knowing that theyd be liable for the costs. So I dont think I could fairly or reasonably
conclude, on the balance of probabilities, that Mrs Ys care would have been transferred to
the cheaper facility even if the claims decision had been communicated two days earlier.
Nonetheless, its clear that Mr and Mrs Y were caused some trouble and upset by the way
Aviva handled their claim. As Ive explained, there were some communication delays and I
can see Ms F regularly had to contact Aviva for updates. I dont doubt that the unnecessary
communication delays added to Mr and Mrs Ys upset at an already distressing time for them
both. And I think it wouldve been reasonable for Aviva to have told Mr and Mrs Y about the
decision not to cover the claim two days before it did. Again, I think this delay in
communicating its claims decision would have added to Mr and Mrs Ys inconvenience and
distress during a worrying time.
Therefore, I currently intend to direct Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs Y a total of £250 
compensation to reflect the unnecessary trouble and upset its service failings caused them.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to consider.
Aviva accepted my provisional findings.Ms F asked for an extension to respond until the end of November 2023, as she had sought 
further medical evidence from Mrs Ys treating consultants. However, we didnt receive any 
more information or submissions from Ms F before the extended deadline expired.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as Aviva has accepted my provisional findings and as Ms F didnt provide 
any substantive new evidence or comments before the extended deadline I gave, I see no 
reason to change my provisional decision.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons. That 
means I dont find it was unfair for Aviva to rely on the contemporaneous evidence provided 
by Mrs Ys treating doctors to conclude that this claim was specifically excluded from cover. 
But I do think Aviva made mistakes in the way it handled this claim. So I direct it to pay Mr 
and Mrs Y £250 compensation to recognise the additional trouble and upset I think those 
errors caused them.
If Ms F is able to obtain new medical evidence to support Mr and Mrs Ys claim, its open to 
her to send that evidence to Aviva for its consideration. If Mr and Mrs Y are unhappy with the 
outcome of Avivas review of any potential new medical evidence, then they may be able to 
make a new complaint about that issue alone.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont think that Aviva acted unfairly when it turned down Mr and Mrs Ys claim.
But I direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs Y £250 compensation to reflect the 
impact of its handling of the claim on them.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y and Mr Y to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman