DRN-2726605
The complaint
Mr A complains about the decision by Assicurazioni Generali SpA (Generali) to turn down 
his income protection claim.
What happened
Mr A is covered under his employers former group income protection scheme. The aim of 
the scheme was to provide him with an income in the event he was unable to work due to 
illness or injury. The scheme had a deferred period of 26 weeks.
In early November 2018, Mr A stopped work as he was experiencing stomach pain. During 
that time, he left the UK to move back in with his parents abroad. He says this was because 
he needed support as he couldnt get out of bed, or take care of himself. On 21 December 
2018, Mr As GP (in the country where he was living) signed him off work with burnout. In 
January 2019, the GP diagnosed Mr A with severe depression, and arranged for him to see 
a psychiatrist who supported that diagnosis.
Generali obtained further information from Mr As GP, but couldnt obtain further information 
from his psychiatrist. It therefore arranged for him to have a psychological health 
assessment. As a result of that assessment, it was recommended that Mr A undergo some 
therapy sessions, which Generali paid for. 
Generali then turned down the claim. It didnt think Mr A had shown that his symptoms 
prevented him from working throughout the deferred period. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought 
a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought there was sufficient 
evidence to show that Mr A was experiencing a mental health condition, and that this 
prevented him from working. She recommended that Generali pay the claim.
Generali didnt agree with our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy defines incapacity as follows:
As a result of illness or injury, the Member is incapable of performing the Material and 
Substantial duties of their occupation, and they are not carrying out any other Work or 
occupation.
Mr A has described the symptoms he experiences. He says his illness impacts his 
concentration, and he doesnt want to participate in events or even go out. And that he 
experiences pain and discomfort in his stomach when he feels anxious.  
For the claim to be paid, Mr A would need to show that he met the above definition of 
incapacity throughout the deferred period. Although Mr A wasnt signed off work until 22 
December 2018 in relation to his mental health, it does appear to be accepted that his earlier 
stomach problems were being caused by anxiety, and so were related to his mental health 
problems. 
Ive therefore considered the medical evidence throughout the deferred period, which was 5 
November 2018 to 6 May 2019. 
On 5 December 2018, Mr As consultant gastroenterologist confirmed hed been off work for 
the last two weeks with stomach pain. 
Mr A then moved abroad, so he could move back in with his parents for support. Mr A says 
that he wasnt able to get out of bed, cook food, or take care of his own hygiene at the time.
Mr As GP (in the country where he was living) provided Generali with a report that was 
completed in November 2019. This said that Mr A became unable to work from 22 
December 2018, and that he was experiencing anxiety, a sleeping disorder, panic attacks, 
gastric disorder, and withdrawal. He confirmed that hed referred Mr A to a psychiatrist and 
the diagnosis was confirmed as severe depression. When asked when Mr A would be able 
to return to work in his occupation, the GP thought he may be able to return in six months 
time. 
Mr A later provided a further letter from his GP. Although the letter is undated, I understand it 
was provided in response to Generalis request, which took place after the deferred period 
had ended. 
The GP said that Mr A had been experiencing severe depression since January 2019, and 
had been treated with anti-anxiety medication and antidepressant medication since then. 
The GP also said thered been no remittance in Mr As symptoms, nor any relevant 
improvements from a medical standpoint. He confirmed that hed had to recently increase 
the dosage of Mr As anxiety medication. Finally, he said that Mr A remained unfit to work as 
of that day.
Mr A was also under the care of a psychiatrist whilst abroad. Although Generali requested a 
report from the psychiatrist, he apparently wouldnt complete this because of confidentiality 
laws in that country. The psychiatrist would only provide Mr A with a medical certificate. This 
said that hed met Mr A at the beginning of 2019, and that Mr A had suffered since then with 
major depression. A treatment of antidepressant medication was started on 30 January 
2019, but was changed at the end of February 2019. 
The NHS says that the particular antidepressant medication that Mr A was prescribed in 
January 2019 is recommended for people who are having a major depressive episode. His 
medication was then adjusted at the end of February 2019 to a different type of 
antidepressant, though I note he was given the strongest dose available. 
Mr A was reviewed by an occupational health adviser in January, February and March 2019. 
The adviser noted that Mr A had experienced some issues in his workplace and then 
became anxious as a result, and started experiencing stomach discomfort. He had 
investigations into his stomach problems, but the tests were inconclusive. The adviser said 
that Mr A reported disturbed sleep, feeling very tired, remained very anxious, and struggled 
with a routine to his day. Mr A told the occupational health adviser that his psychiatrist had diagnosed him with 
anxiety, depression and burnout. The adviser acknowledged that Mr A considered his ill 
health was related to work, but thought he was more susceptible to developing anxiety 
because hed reported that hed always been a nervous and anxious person.
Between January and March 2019, the occupational health adviser thought that Mr A wasnt 
fit for work. In February 2019, there was no significant improvement in Mr As reported 
symptoms. However, his medication was changed as a result of this, and Mr A reported 
some positive signs of improvement in March 2019  though he told the adviser that his 
psychiatrist thought he was likely to remain off work for another nine to 12 months. 
Due to the limited information from Mr As GP and treating psychiatrist, Generali arranged for 
Mr A to have an assessment with a clinical psychologist (Dr D) in November 2019. 
Dr D said Mr A described how he lacked motivation, and wasnt taking as much care of his 
personal appearance as he would have done previously. Mr A also told Dr D that he avoided 
contact with friends, apart from a small number that hed known for a long time. Dr D thought 
that, given the length of time Mr A had been off work, and the extent of his psychological 
difficulties, Mr A would benefit from 12 sessions of psychological therapy. Dr D also noted 
that whilst Mr A had previously thought his stomach issues were physical, he was able to 
recognise that psychological issues were likely a significant part of the picture.
Generali agreed to cover the psychological therapy recommended by Dr D, which I think was 
fair. 
Mr A attended eight out of the 12 sessions. At the end of those sessions, Dr D wrote to 
Generali in April 2020. She said Mr A had reported some improvement in his mental health 
and activity levels over the course of their sessions, though he said that many of his 
symptoms remained the same. He had found that exercise was helpful in managing his 
anxiety, but he was still having stomach pain and anxiety symptoms, and his GP had 
increased his medication as a result. Mr A reported spending the majority of his time either 
sleeping or watching TV programmes. Dr D thought that Mr A could benefit from some 
further sessions.
Given that Mr A was under the care of a psychiatrist (Dr B) during the deferred period, I can 
understand why Generali wanted Dr Bs opinion about Mr As ability to work. Although Dr B 
had confirmed that Mr A had been diagnosed with depression and stated which medication 
hed been prescribed, the information he provided was limited. 
We therefore asked Mr A to obtain further information from Dr B. 
Dr B has now responded and explained that Mr A was under his care for the first quarter of 
2019. He said that, despite Mr A not having any previous psychiatric symptoms, he had 
been suffering from a major depressive episode with severe intensity. He went on to 
describe the symptoms Mr A was experiencing - namely asthenia, loss of desires and 
interests, anhedonia, sleeping disorder, loss of appetite, and anxiety. Dr B said he thought 
that Mr As health was incompatible with the pursuit of any professional activity during that 
time.
We shared Dr Bs evidence with Generali, but it didnt think Dr B had provided any new 
information that we werent already aware of. 
I disagree. I think Dr B has provided useful further information on how Mr As mental health 
condition impacted him. And its apparent that Dr B didnt think Mr A could work at the time 
as a result of that.Whilst the evidence from Mr As GP and Dr B only refers to Mr A being unable to work from 
December 2018/January 2019 due to his mental health condition, I think we need to take 
into account that he moved to a different country shortly before that time, and so he wasnt 
under the care of those medical professionals at the start of the deferred period. However, it 
seems to be accepted that his anxiety symptoms were previously manifesting as stomach 
pain, which is why he stopped work in November 2018. 
Taking that into consideration, as well as the opinion of Dr B, the GP, and the occupational 
health adviser  on balance, Im satisfied that Mr A couldnt work throughout the deferred 
period because of his condition.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Assicurazioni Generali SpA to 
accept the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and pay backdated benefit due. 
Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each benefit 
payment was due to the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman