DRN-3563463
The complaint
Mr T complains about delays he experienced when encashing his Guaranteed Growth Bond 
with National Savings and Investments (NS&I).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in Mr Ts complaint and set out the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings as follows:
On 10 November 2020 NS&I wrote to Mr T to let him know his bond was due to mature on 
15 December and provided him with options. The default option, if no reply was received, 
was that the bond would automatically start a new three-year term. On 1 December Mr T 
completed the maturity form, electing to cash in the full value of the bond, and the form was 
received by NS&I on 4 December. On 10 December NS&I wrote back to let him know that 
they had received his instruction and that they needed to check some security details. They 
said theyd be back in touch soon and Mr T could call them in the interim if he wished.
On 15 December NS&I sent Mr T a letter confirming that the maturity value was around 
£790,000 and that the bond had been renewed onto a new interest rate of 0.4% per annum. 
On 16 and 17 December, Mr T called NS&I to find out what was happening and what 
security checks were being done  but the call handlers were unable to tell him. On 18 
December Mr T wrote to NS&I to complain, as he was intending to reinvest £600,000 of the 
maturity value and was missing out on investment growth.
On 21 December, Mr T called and was told his money would be released on 24 December, 
or by 30 December at the latest. He called again on 29 December, 4 January and 6 January 
2021 and no one could explain the situation. On 7 January 2021 he was told the payment 
was approved and the money was received into Mr Ts account on 11 January 2021. Mr T 
reinvested £600,000 on 13 January and later that month he sent NS&I evidence of the 
financial losses that he felt were caused by the delay.
After chasing NS&I several times throughout February and March, on 21 March NS&I replied 
to the complaint. They paid Mr T interest at 0.4% gross, amounting to £121.20, on the 
maturity value from 15 to 29 December 2020, but no further compensation was offered. 
Unhappy with this, Mr T referred the complaint to our service, explaining that his financial 
adviser had calculated the loss in value of his subsequent investment to be around £10,000, 
due to the delay. NS&I then made an offer of further interest at 0.4% from 29 December to 7 
January and £100 compensation for not managing Mr Ts expectations of how long the 
payment would take.
An investigator at our service considered the complaint and found that the offer wasnt 
enough. He felt that had everything gone as it should, the amount would have been released 
by NS&I on 17 December and Mr T would have reinvested the money by 21 December. He 
recommended that NS&I calculate how many units Mr T would have been able to buy had 
he invested £600,000 on 21 December 2020, compared with how many he was able to buy 
on 13 January 2021. If he bought less in January than he could have in December, then 
NS&I should pay him the amount it would cost him to buy those units on the date of 
settlement. For the remaining amount of the maturity value, the investigator recommended 
that NS&I pay 8% simple interest from 17 December 2020 to 11 January 2021. He also 
thought NS&I should pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr T accepted the investigators opinion, but NS&I did not. They felt they didnt have enough 
proof of Mr Ts intent to invest in the same way in December 2020. Instead they offered to 
pay 8% simple interest on the total maturity value, minus any interest already paid, plus 
£250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr T did not accept this, and 
so the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
I got in touch with NS&I and provided evidence of Mr Ts intent to invest in December 2020. I 
explained I was in agreement with the method of redress set out by the investigator as to 
how they should calculate the loss Mr T incurred by the delays he experienced in reinvesting 
the maturity proceeds  which NS&I subsequently agreed to. I made no comment at that 
stage on the amount of the compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
This was put to Mr T and though he was happy the method of redress was now agreed, he 
remained unhappy with the compensation offer of £250. He explained that the situation had 
caused extreme anxiety and he was concerned about whether the funds would be released 
at all, given the contact he had with NS&I didnt result in any substantial answers. He feels 
the fact that NS&I then didnt take responsibility for the delays, caused further inconvenience 
in having to sustain contact with them. So, hes asked for a decision on the complaint. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NS&I and Mr T now agree on the way the financial loss should be put right by NS&I. For 
completeness I also agree the way the investigator said to put things right is fair. NS&I has 
confirmed that under normal circumstances payment should have been made to Mr T within 
48 hours from maturity on 15 December 2020. All parties agree that if that had happened, 
this would have meant Mr T would likely have been able to reinvest by 21 December 2020, 
which I also agree is reasonable. I also think Mr T would have invested in the same funds at 
that time, as he did in January 2021.
Ive carefully considered the timeline of events and the submissions from Mr T about the 
worry caused and the amount of effort he went to, to ensure he received the maturity 
proceeds. Despite Mr T having sent in the maturity forms prior to the date instructed, NS&I 
made the first error, by seeming to not follow Mr Ts instructions. Instead they said the bond 
had been rolled over into a new three-year bond, with an interest rate of 0.4%. This was 
clearly worrying to Mr T, given the maturity letter was clear that if the bond rolled over, that 
the money would be inaccessible for the whole new term. Though there was a 30-day 
cancellation period, Mr T received very little clarity from NS&I about what was happening, 
despite calling and writing a number of times.
He was then told that he would receive the funds towards the end of December, but this 
didnt happen, and they werent received until 11 January 2021. This incorrect information 
was later repeated in the response to Mr Ts complaint in March 2021, which said that the 
funds were released in December. Understandably this caused Mr T further frustration as it 
appeared NS&Is own records of the situation were incorrect despite the time and effort hed 
put into the situation to set out the issues and loss hed incurred.
Overall Mr T had to call and write to NS&I numerous times to simply find out what was 
happening. He then had to get in touch again to set out his losses at the end of January, which was not addressed by NS&I. He had to continue to contact them on receipt of the 
March letter, to explain why the dates used by NS&I were incorrect, which prompted a 
further offer from them to address the additional delay. In my view, he shouldnt have had to 
take any of those steps, if NS&I hadnt been experiencing delays, and if they had updated 
him properly throughout.
I appreciate Mr Ts frustration that NS&I didnt offer to pay for all the losses he was claiming 
for and instead paid interest at a rate of 0.4%, which has prolonged the inconvenience he 
has incurred. When considering payments of compensation for things like time, effort and 
emotion that a consumer has experienced, I must keep in mind that this is referring to the 
trouble caused over and above the general inconvenience caused by making a complaint, or 
referring that complaint to our service. So though I can see it would have resolved things if 
NS&I had made a different offer earlier, they are within their rights to disagree and I dont 
think it would be fair to include in the compensation an amount for having to continue the 
complaint.
The total delay in payment of the maturity proceeds was around three and a half weeks. 
However, there was a large amount of money involved here and Mr T was aware that he 
was experiencing relative losses against the new investment during that time  and this 
would have been all on top of the fact NS&I was unable to give him clear updates of what 
was happening. I think this would have been a worrying situation for anyone to go through, 
and was clearly particularly so for Mr T. Overall, I dont think NS&Is offer of £250 is quite 
enough here and I think a compensation payment of £350 would be fair, given the 
circumstances.
Responses to my provisional decision
NS&I responded and agreed with my decision. Mr T also replied and had nothing further to 
add to his previous submissions.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having received no new submissions from the parties, I see no reason 
to depart from my provisional findings as set out above. I therefore reach the same 
conclusions as in my provisional decision, for the same reasons, and make them final.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that National Savings and Investments should:
Review how many shares/units Mr T would have been able to purchase on 21 
December 2020 with £600,000 of the maturity proceeds from his bond and compare 
this to the number he purchased on 13 January 2021. If he has lost out, then 
National Savings and Investments should calculate how much it would cost Mr T to 
buy the extra shares/units on the date of settlement and pay him that amount.
On the remaining amount of the maturity value, National Savings and Investments 
should pay Mr T 8% simple interest per annum from 17 December 2020 to 11 
January 2021.
Pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.Any amount already paid should be deducted from the above. National Savings and 
Investments should provide details of the calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman