DRN-1400316
 
The complaint
Mr P complains about the way British Gas Insurance Limited has handled claims he made 
on his home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ps policy covers the home his parents live in. In March 2019, he made a claim on his 
policy because their boiler wasnt starting properly. British Gas notes suggest the first 
engineer cancelled the visit. Mr P had to make a couple more call outs during March 
because the boiler kept losing pressure. 
Mr P was unhappy with the service hed got from British Gas and he made a complaint. He 
said hed had to make multiple claims on the policy over the past couple of years because of 
loss of boiler pressure. His father was also unwell. Mr P wanted a refund of premiums for the 
past two years of policy cover.
British Gas looked into Mr Ps concerns. It said in May 2017 and January 2018, its engineers 
had told Mr P the boiler needed to be isolated during the summer months. It said thered 
been reasonable gaps between claims. It arranged for an engineer to look at the boiler on 1 
June 2019. 
But the next day, the same problem recurred. Mr P called British Gas again. He experienced 
long delays in getting through and a dropped call. He spoke with various members of British 
Gas staff to try to sort things out.
Ultimately, British Gas offered an engineer to come and out and do a full investigation into 
the root cause of the boiler issue. It agreed to refund Mr Ps premiums from April 2019  
when he first complained. And it sent Mr P a cheque for £50 to recognise the poor service 
hed had when hed tried to call. Mr P wasnt happy with British Gas offer and he asked us to 
look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. She didnt think British Gas 
needed to refund the premiums Mr P had paid since 2017. Thats because Mr P had had the 
benefit of the policy and repair works had been carried out during that time. But she noticed 
that in June 2018, an engineer had isolated the boiler. This still hadnt resolved things. So 
she thought that at this point, British Gas shouldve done more to try and diagnose the root 
cause of the boiler problem. She recommended that British Gas should pay Mr P an 
additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused by its handling of his 
claims.
Mr P wasnt happy with the investigators recommendation. He thought British Gas should 
refund his premiums for two years. British Gas also disagreed with the investigator. It said 
Mr Ps boiler was 29 years old and it had recommended replacing it  when he took out the 
policy. It said if a boilers old its likely to face more issues. But it had carried out repairs to 
Mr Ps boiler over the years, which had cost a lot of money.The investigator asked Mr P for information about his boiler. He said hed bought it in 2007. 
She asked British Gas for evidence to show the boiler was 29 years old. To date, it hasnt 
provided any records which reflect this. The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont think British Gas 
has treated Mr P fairly. Ill explain why.
British Gas told us Mr Ps boiler is 29 years old and that itd offered to replace it for him. This 
is important, because I might expect to see a higher number of claims if a boiler is reaching 
the end of its life. Mr P told us he bought the boiler in 2007  which would make the boiler 
around 13 years old (and 12 years old back in 2019).
The investigator asked British Gas for evidence to show Mr Ps boiler is 29 years old. It sent 
us its job notes, but these dont include the age of the boiler. What they do include though is 
the make and model of the boiler. Ive had a look at the manufacturers website. It looks like 
Mr Ps boiler was first produced in 2002. So the oldest it seems Mr Ps boiler could be is 18 
years old. And I see no reason to doubt what hes told me about when he bought it. This 
means I think its most likely Mr Ps boiler wasnt 29 years old. And so it seems less likely it 
was reaching the end of its life back in 2019.
Ive then thought about whether British Gas should refund Mr P the premiums he paid after 
2017. In these circumstances, I dont think that would be a reasonable outcome. I appreciate 
Mr P has experienced a number of issues with the boiler. But the job notes show that with 
the exception of one missed visit from an engineer; British Gas generally responded to Mr 
Ps claims fairly promptly.
The notes show that during the claims Mr P made during 2017, 2018 and 2019, the 
engineers replaced and repaired boiler parts. The job notes show these included replacing 
sensors, the expansion vessel and cracked flues, as well as bleeding out the radiators and 
fitting new blanking caps.
Its also clear that there were gaps between Mr Ps claims on his policy at points.  Following 
the claim Mr P made in May 2017; he didnt need to call out British Gas again until the end of 
January 2018. While he needed to claim again in June 2018 (and it seems a few call outs 
were needed at this point), he didnt then need to claim again until March 2019. I accept 
what Mr Ps told me about him needing to manually re-pressurise the boiler in between 
claims. But given Mr P was able to self-manage things at this point, it does seem like the 
boiler was providing heat and hot water and didnt impact too much on day to day life.
So it seems to me that while Mr P isnt happy with the service he got from British Gas, it did 
fulfil its obligations under his policy. And given the repairs to his boiler over the years, I think 
he has benefited from the policy cover. This means I think its fair for British Gas to keep the 
premiums he paid from 2017 onwards.
However, I dont think British Gas did all it couldve done to try to get to the root cause of the 
boiler issues after June 2018. Ive carefully considered the job notes. I can see that in 
January 2018, an engineer recommended that the boiler should be isolated during the 
summer months. This happened on 2 June 2018 and the pressure was ok. But Mr P had to 
call again a couple of days later, because there was still an issue. I think this shouldve put 
British Gas on notice that a deeper diagnostic check might be needed.
Mr P then needed to call again a few times in March 2019 because he was still experiencing issues. The engineers tried different things to resolve the problem. Mr P says he told each 
engineer that the pressure kept dropping and he had to manually fix it. So I think it mightve 
been reasonable for British Gas to try to find the underlying issue that was causing a 
repeated pressure drop.
Its clear British Gas did go on to offer a detailed investigation when it looked into Mr Ps 
complaint. But by this time, I think thered been a breakdown in communications and Mr P 
simply didnt want to go ahead.
In the round, I think compensation of £100, in addition to the £50 cheque British Gas has 
already sent Mr P  - a total of £150-feels fair. I think it recognises the time Mr P was put to in 
manually re-pressurising the boiler and in needing to chase up appointments. If Mr P hasnt 
yet cashed the £50 cheque, it may now be out of date. So British Gas may need to send Mr 
P a new cheque for the full amount of £150.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint.
I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr P further compensation of £100 for his 
distress and inconvenience. This is in addition to the £50 compensation British Gas has 
already paid Mr P.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman