DRN-3746832
The complaint
Mrs J complaints Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty gave her two lines of credit she couldnt 
afford to repay because of her bad credit rating and her outstanding debts. 
What happened
Mrs J first approached Drafty for a running credit facility in April 2018. Mrs J was given a
facility with a £1,050 credit limit. The credit limit remained the same while Mrs J had it and 
she successful repaid the facility in November 2019. 
Mrs J then approached Drafty for a second credit facility in November 2021. This had a limit 
of £550. Mrs J has had some difficulties repaying this facility and she is currently on a plan  
paying £22 per month. As of October 2022, she owed around £404. 
Mrs J was given running credit accounts where she could either request funds up to her 
agreed credit limit in one go or could take multiple drawdowns up to her limit. She was also 
able to borrow further, up to her credit limit, as and when she repaid what she owed. To be 
clear, Mrs J was not given payday loans. 
In Draftys final response letter from May 2022 it explained the information it gathered from 
Mrs J before it approved the two credit facilities which showed shed be able to afford them 
both. So, it didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs J then referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
The case was then considered by an adjudicator who partly upheld it. She thought the 
checks Drafty carried out before granting the first facility were proportionate. These showed 
Drafty that Mrs J was likely to be able to afford the payment amount as outlined in the 
hypothetical payment schedule within Mrs Js credit agreement. So, she didnt think it was 
wrong to have approved the facility.
However, the adjudicator, pointed out that as Drafty had provided Mrs J with a credit facility, 
in addition to taking reasonable steps to ensure the facility was affordable at the outset, it 
also had an obligation to monitor Mrs Js ongoing use of the first facility. The adjudicator 
thought, by 24 May 2019 the way Mrs J had used the facility showed she wasnt making 
headway into servicing it and it ought to have shown forbearance to Mrs J. The adjudicator 
thought Drafty shouldve stepped in and shouldve frozen the interest on the first facility. 
The adjudicator also concluded Drafty carried out proportionate checks before the second 
facility was approved  which showed it to be affordable and so she didnt uphold the 
complaint about the second facility. She was also satisfied Drafty acted fairly by agreeing a 
repayment plan with Mrs J from May 2022.
In order to put things right, the adjudicator recommended all interest, fees and charged paid 
by Mrs J from 24 May 2019 should be refunded until the first facility was closed. Along with 
additional interest of 8% simple. She also said any adverse information recorded on Mrs Js 
credit file from the uphold date should be removed from her credit file. 
Drafty didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment. It agreed to uphold the complaint 
from the same point in time for the first facility (24 May 2019) but it agreed to only refund the 
interest fees and charges applied to any new drawdowns from that date rather than 
suspending interest on the whole balance. At the time the offer was made, after tax and 8% 
simple interest Mrs J would receive a refund of £27.83. But Drafty said this refund would be 
used to offset Mrs Js balance on the second facility reducing it to £376.90 (at the time). 
Draftys offer was put to Mrs J and she didnt accept it. As no agreement has been reached, 
the case has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice
at the relevant times.
A lender had to take proportionate steps to ensure a consumer wouldve been able to repay 
what they were borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their 
financial situation. Put simply the lender had to gather enough information so that it could 
make an informed decision on the lending.
Although the guidance didnt set out compulsory checks it did list a number of things a lender 
could take into account before agreeing to lend. The key thing was that it required a lenders 
checks to be proportionate. Any checks had to take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much was being lent and when what was being borrowed was due to be 
repaid. 
As explained, Mrs J was given two open-ended credit facilities. So, overall, I think that this 
means the checks Drafty carried out had to provide enough for it to be able to understand 
whether Mrs J would be able to both service and then repay her facilities within a reasonable 
period of time. Drafty also needed to monitor Mrs Js repayment record for any sign that she 
may have been experiencing financial difficulties.
Before the two facilities were approved, Drafty took details of Mrs Js income and 
expenditure information as well as carrying out a credit search. In my view, given this was 
the start of the lending relationship Draftys checks were entirely reasonable and 
proportionate and showed it that Mrs J would be able to afford the repayments as outlined in 
the hypothetical scenario in the credit agreement. So, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint about 
Drafty approving either credit facility. 
It is worth saying here that Drafty agrees with the uphold point reached on the first facility, as 
it offered some redress from this time  24 May 2019. And while, Mrs J rejected the 
settlement offer by Drafty, she did agree with the outcome the adjudicator reached on her 
complaint about the two facilities. 
So, it seems to me, that all parties to the complaint agree that the only part of Mrs Js 
complaint which can be upheld is on the first facility from 24 May 2019. However, what is in 
dispute, and therefore what this decision has focused on, is whether the redress proposed 
by Drafty is fair and reasonable considering the circumstances of Mrs Js complaint. 
Therefore, Ive set out below what I think Drafty needs to do in order to put things right for 
Mrs J while explaining why I agree with the adjudicators conclusions that all the interest 
charged after the 24 May 2019 needs to be refunded. I dont think that I need to speculate here about the actions Drafty may or may not have 
taken in May 2019. There were several options which Drafty could have taken. But seeing as 
none of these were taken and Im satisfied that action ought to have been taken. Ive 
considered what Drafty ought to fairly and reasonably do to put things right sometime after 
the event. And the proposed redress is the clearest and fairest way of doing this sometime 
after the event. 
As Ive said above, and as the adjudicator pointed out, I do think the facility had likely 
become unsustainable for Mrs J by May 2019. Afterall, by now she had been repaying the 
facility for around a year and yet still owed Drafty her entire credit limit. 
In addition, her repayment pattern up until this point, was generally, making at least the 
minimum payment and then Mrs J returned  normally within a matter of days to drawdown 
any available funds which was typically only around £20. In that situation, I think it is clear 
the facility had become unsustainable for Mrs J. 
In any event, whats most important here is that I dont think its fair and reasonable for a 
lender to allow a customer to continue using a facility that has become unsustainable  
instead I think its fair and reasonable to expect a lender to help the customer repay what 
theyve already drawn down and what they already owe.  
So, I dont think that Drafty continuing to allow interest to be charged on Mrs Js balance, in 
circumstances where this increased the chances of her being unable to repay, when the 
manner in which she was serving the facility indicated she was struggling.
So, although, I do accept that the balance on the first facility up to the uphold point was 
legitimately provided and appeared affordable for Mrs J at the time it was lent, once the point 
had been reached where Drafty accepted the facility was unsustainable, it ought to have 
exercised forbearance in order to allow Mrs J to repay what she owed. In these 
circumstances, it isnt, in my view, fair and reasonable for Drafty to have continued charging 
interest on this balance from 24 May 2019 onwards. 
Therefore, given what Drafty said in response to the adjudicators assessment, that it agrees 
with the point that the complaint has been upheld, it therefore follows that it isnt just the new 
drawdowns that Mrs J couldnt afford. She also couldnt afford to repay what she already 
owed  so actions in failing to offer help to repay this as well as offering further drawdowns 
needs to be reflected in what it does to put things right going forward. 
Thinking about this, and the fact the reasons why Drafty has already agreed to uphold the 
complaint at the point the adjudicator recommended, Ive outlined below what Drafty needs 
to do in order to put things right for Mrs J. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Drafty should do the following: 
Re-work Mrs Js first credit facility balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied from 24 May 2019 until the first facility closed are removed. 
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer being 
an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Mrs J, along with 8% simple interest* on the overpayments from the date 
they were made until the date of settlement. 
Drafty should remove any adverse information from Mrs Js credit file in relation to 
the first facility.Drafty can also use any refund from the first facility to offset the outstanding balance 
due on the second facility. If after using this refund this clears the outstanding 
balance than any surplus should be paid directly to Mrs J. However, if after carrying 
out the above, an outstanding balance remains then Drafty should try and come to a 
mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mrs J to repay what is owed. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Drafty to take off tax from this interest. Drafty must give
Mrs J a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I partly uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Gain Credit LLC trading as Drafty should put things right for Mrs J as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman