DRN-3083530
The complaint
Ms G complains about the actions of PrePay Technologies Limited trading as Prepay 
Solutions (Prepay) when she sent money to one of their customers as the result of a scam.
Ms G has used a representative to bring her complaint, but for ease of reading Ill ascribe the 
representatives comments to Ms G herself. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In February 2021 Ms G sent around £1,250 to a Prepay account. This money was sent on 
behalf of a friend of hers. The payment was intended to be a fee in relation to a property 
rental, but this turned out to be a scam. 
Ms G complains that Prepay didnt do enough to prevent the scam and that they allowed a 
scammer to open and operate an account. Prepay didnt agree that theyd done anything 
wrong. They said theyd acted promptly once notified the payment was made as the result of 
a scam, but unfortunately no funds remained to be returned. They also said the account had 
been correctly opened. 
The matter was referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt recommend that it 
should be upheld. Ms G disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Prepay correctly followed their processes and conducted sufficient checks 
when opening the account in question. There isnt anything that I think reasonably could 
have alerted them at that time that the account they were opening would later be used in 
connection with a scam. So, I dont think Prepay could have prevented the scam in this way.
Ms G says she was paying a limited liability partnership Ill refer to as A. So if the payment 
didnt go to an account in As name, this is something that Prepay should have identified and 
stopped. 
The Payment Services Regulations (PSRs) 2017 say at 90(1) Where a payment order is 
executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the payment order is deemed to have 
been correctly executed Further to this at 90(5) it goes on to explain that where additional 
information is provided, the payment service provider is only liable for execution of the 
payment in accordance with the unique identifiers provided. In these circumstances, the 
unique identifiers are the sort code and account number. So there was no requirement for 
Prepay to check the beneficiary name, reference or any other additional information. The 
payment was correctly executed if it went to the sort code and account number provided 
(which it did). 
I appreciate that some banks have introduced confirmation of payee (COP). This is a system 
where the sender of a payment can confirm whether the beneficiary account name is a 
match to what they expect, prior to sending a payment. But there was no requirement for 
Prepay to have this system in place at the time the payment was made. I dont think Prepay 
could have done more on these points. 
Ms G would like Prepay to reimburse her with £1,250. Having looked closely at the 
statements for the account that received the funds, I can see that the account holder started 
to spend the funds quickly and within an hour of them arriving. By the time Ms Gs bank 
reported the problem with the payment, it was already too late to enable the £1,250 to be 
returned. I appreciate that the friend for whom Ms G had made the payment was in contact 
with Prepay sooner than Ms Gs bank. But I wouldnt expect Prepay to accept a fraud report 
from someone who wasnt the sender of the funds. And due to how quickly funds left the 
account, Im not persuaded this would have made a difference even if they had. For 
completeness, there wasnt anything so unusual about the way in which the funds were paid 
away from the account that means I think Prepay ought to have intervened or to have done 
more. 
Im sorry that Ms G sent money as the result of a scam. But it would only be fair for me to tell 
Prepay to reimburse her if I think they are responsible for errors that would otherwise have 
prevented the loss. And as I dont think they are, there isnt a reasonable basis upon which I 
can tell them to do more. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman