DRN-3757959
The complaint
Miss C and Mr P complain that TICORP Limited made a serious error when it sold their
Staysure travel insurance policy, which caused them significant distress and inconvenience.
Staysure is a trading name of TICORP Limited and so for ease, Ive referred to TICORP
Limited as Staysure throughout this decision.
What happened
In December 2021, Miss C and Mr P took out an annual Staysure travel insurance policy to
cover trips they had booked for the following year. Miss C was undergoing treatment for
cancer and wanted to ensure shed be fully covered. Miss C and Mr P went on to complete
the policy purchase over the phone with Staysure and they paid £583.18 for the contract,
which included cover for Miss Cs medical conditions. The policy was underwritten by an
insurer Ill call G.
Miss C and Mr P were due to travel abroad in March 2022. The day before their departure,
Miss C got in touch with Staysure to let it know about a blood test result. At this point,
Staysure noted that given Miss Cs ongoing cancer treatment, she should never have been
offered a policy and the contract was cancelled.
Given the proximity to their departure date, Miss C and Mr P were very concerned that
theyd be left without cover for their trip. They were also unhappy as they said Staysure had
insisted that theyd given it incorrect information about Miss Cs health at the time of sale. So
they made a complaint.
Ultimately, Staysure agreed with G that G would provide a single trip policy for the March
2022 holiday, which excluded cover for cancer. It apologised for its mistake. It went on to
refund the full cost of Miss C and Mr Ps policy premium to them. And it also paid Miss C and
Mr P £1623.95, which represented the cost of a new policy that theyd been able to take out
through another insurer.
Miss C and Mr P were unhappy with Staysures response to their complaint. Briefly, they felt
that Staysure should pay them additional compensation to recognise the trouble, upset and
worry its mistake had caused them. They said theyd been worrying throughout their trip,
given that cancer cover had been excluded on the single trip policy theyd been given to
cover the holiday. And they said that Staysure had sought to blame them for its mistake by
indicating that Miss C had incorrectly answered its questions. They felt too that Staysure had
been in breach of contract by terminating the contract of insurance and that it should be
fined or stopped from taking such a course of action again.
Our investigator thought Staysure had responded to Miss C and Mr Ps complaint fairly. She
considered that by refunding both the premium for the Staysure policy and the new annual
policy, Miss C and Mr P had been put in the position they wouldve been in but for its error.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 September 2022. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought Staysure had settled Miss C and Mr Ps complaint fairly. 
I said:
First, Id like to reassure Miss C and Mr P that whilst Ive summarised the background to
their complaint and their detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all theyve said
and sent us. In this decision though, I havent commented on each point theyve made and
nor do our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
It's also important that I explain our role. Were not the industry regulator and we have no
power to fine or punish the financial businesses we cover. Nor can we tell them to change
their processes or procedures. Our role is to consider individual complaints brought by
consumers, to decide whether a financial business has done something wrong and if so,
whether it needs to take any action to put things right.
I think it would be helpful for me to set out too the roles of Staysure and G. Staysure sells
travel insurance policies on Gs behalf and its responsible for sending out policy
documentation following a sale. But it isnt responsible for deciding whether or not to offer
insurance and if so, on what terms. Thats Gs role, as the insurer. Its down to G to decide
whether its prepared to cover a particular customer; whether its prepared to provide
medical cover and what price to charge. So while Staysure let Miss C and Mr P know, in
March 2022, that G wasnt prepared to continue to insure them, this was Gs decision.
Staysure wasnt responsible for the decision to end the policy. That means that my decision
will necessarily focus on Staysures actions as the seller of the policy.
The available evidence indicates that Staysure didnt advise Miss C and Mr P to take out this
policy. That means it didnt need to check it was suitable for them. But it did need to give
Miss C and Mr P enough clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy so that
they could decide if the contract was right for them.
It's common ground that Staysure made a serious mistake when it sold Miss C and Mr Ps
policy to them. Its clear that Miss C gave Staysure correct details about her medical
condition and the treatment she was undergoing. And I dont doubt how important it was to
her to make sure she had cover in place for the trips she had planned. Instead of accurately
inputting Miss Cs answers though, Staysure noted that Miss C didnt have further cancer
treatment planned. And it was on this basis that G agreed to cover Miss Cs medical
conditions and was prepared to offer an insurance policy.
If Staysure had correctly answered this question when it inputted Miss Cs information, G
would not have been prepared to offer Miss C and Mr P the travel insurance cover they
wanted. This means the sale could not have gone ahead. As the sale did proceed though, I
think Staysure clearly mis-sold this policy to Miss C and Mr P.
So Ive thought about what shouldve happened and whether Staysure has acted fairly to put
things right. I was pleased to note that Staysure did accept very early on that it had made a
mistake. It took steps to try and resolve the complaint and ensure Miss C and Mr P had at
least some travel cover for their March 2022 trip.
If G had declined to offer Miss C and Mr P a policy at all, then its clear that they wouldnt
have been able to take out an annual contract through Staysure. So Miss C and Mr P
wouldnt have been charged a premium of £583.18 and they wouldnt have made a premium
payment to Staysure. Instead, theyd have needed to look elsewhere for an insurer which did
offer the level of cover they wanted. I agree with Staysure that such an alternative policy was
likely to have cost Miss C and Mr P significantly more than the premium they initially paid. I
say that because its clear that Miss C and Mr P were ultimately charged over £1600 for full
cover by a third-party insurer.
Generally, where a financial business has made a mistake, its appropriate for the consumerto be put back into the position they wouldve been in but for that business error. In the case
of a mis-sold policy, the cancellation of the contract from the start and a refund of the
premium a policyholder has paid for cover theyd never have taken out will often place a
consumer in the position they wouldve been in but for the error. And in some cases, I might
find this represents fair compensation to put things right.
In my view, by refunding the premium of £583.18 which Miss C and Mr P had paid for a
policy they shouldnt have been offered, Staysure placed them in the position they wouldve
been in but for its mistake. This refund of premium directly recompensed Miss C and Mr P
for their actual financial loss. And I note the refund amount didnt include a deduction for the
cancellation cover Miss C and Mr P had been benefitting from between the start date of the
policy and the date it was ended. In the circumstances of this complaint though, I dont think
a simple refund of the premium Miss C and Mr P paid for their Staysure cover is sufficient
compensation for the impact the error had on them.
I say that because Staysures error was only discovered the day before Miss C and Mr P
were due to travel. The matter wasnt resolved before their departure. And I dont doubt how
upsetting, worrying and frustrating it mustve been for them to first learn that they had no
cover at all and subsequently, that Miss Cs medical condition had been excluded from the
single trip policy they were given. I accept too that this put Miss C and Mr P to some time
and inconvenience in dealing with the complaint. I also appreciate that the matter had an
impact on their ability to fully enjoy their trip. So I do think that compensation over and above
a simple premium refund was warranted here.
Staysure agreed to refund the full cost of the travel insurance policy Miss C and Mr P went
on to take out with another insurer. This was at a total cost of £1623.95. If things had gone
as they shouldve done at the point of sale, Miss C and Mr P wouldve had to pay broadly
this amount at their own cost. Instead, Staysure met this cost, meaning that Miss C and Mr P
didnt have to pay for insurance cover for that policy year. In my view, this is a significant
additional award of redress which benefited Miss C and Mr P and which Staysure had no
liability to pay. As such then, I think its fair and reasonable to treat this amount of £1623.95
as effective compensation for the mistake Staysure made. In my view, this is a very fair
award of compensation to reflect the impact of Staysures mistake and the duration of the
matter. So in the circumstances, I dont currently think it would be fair for me to find that
Staysure needs to pay anything more to put things right.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further comments they wanted me to consider.
Staysure didnt respond by the deadline I gave.
Miss C and Mr P disagreed with my provisional findings and Ive summarised their response. 
They didnt think that I had taken the impact this matter had had on their holiday into 
account. Their policy had been arbitrarily cancelled and Staysure had told them that they 
wouldnt be able to speak to a complaints manager until after the holiday was due to start. 
So theyd had to weigh up whether or not to cancel the holiday. They decided to mitigate 
their potential losses and take the trip as planned. But theyd expected that full cover for that 
particular trip would be honoured. Instead, cover for Miss Cs cancer had been excluded, 
which had left her on edge; loath to go out during the trip and which had caused a 
recurrence of anxiety. Had they decided against going on holiday, their claim wouldve been 
for the full costs of their cancelled holiday. And theyve rebooked the same trip for this year  
which is putting them in the same position they wouldve been in but for Staysures error.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss C and Mr P, I still think that Staysure 
settled their complaint fairly and Ill explain why.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I dont doubt how worrying, upsetting and 
frustrating it mustve been when Miss C and Mr P not only learned about Staysures mistake, 
but also the impact that had on the insurance cover G was prepared to provide them. I 
acknowledged that in these particular circumstances, a simple refund of policy premium 
wasnt enough to recognise the trouble and upset Staysures error had caused them.
I was sorry to read about the effect Staysures mistake and Gs subsequent decision to offer 
more limited single trip cover had on Miss C and Mr Ps ability to enjoy the holiday. Id like to 
reassure them that I did take this into account when considering their complaint. It remains 
the case though that Staysure has also reimbursed Miss C and Mr P over £1600 to reflect 
the cost of the new policy they took out through another insurer. This is a substantial award 
of effective compensation and Im still satisfied that its fair and reasonable to reflect the 
upset and inconvenience Staysure accepts it caused Miss C and Mr P.
Additionally, we dont generally make awards for hypothetical situations  we will generally 
look at what did happen rather than what might have happened. Here, while Miss C and Mr 
P considered cancelling the holiday, they ultimately did take the holiday theyd booked and 
paid for. And I think Staysure has fairly compensated them for the impact its error had on the 
holiday they took. Staysure isnt responsible for covering the cost of a new holiday, even if 
that holiday is likely to be intended to replace the original trip. It follows I dont think I could 
reasonably direct Staysure to pay anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that 
Staysure has settled this complaint fairly.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman