DRN-2312215
The complaint
Mr H, via a representative, has complained that Legal & General Partnership Services 
Limited (L&G) gave him poor advice to remortgage when he didnt need to. Mr H has also 
complained about the legal administration fee of £250 + VAT that L&G charged when 
arranging the mortgage.
What happened
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all of them 
again here. But Ill instead provide a summary of whats happened so far, covering the key 
points, and then Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Mr H remortgaged in 2005 after receiving advice from a broker appointed to L&G. 
At the time Mr H remortaged he owed around £76,000 to his previous lender. This balance 
was made up of two parts; £45,333 on an interest-only basis, and the remaining amount on 
a repayment basis. Mr H also had an unsecured personal loan with a balance of £20,489.23 
and had seven credit cards with various balances. The personal loan, and two of the credit 
cards of £3,359 and £845 were consolidated into the mortgage that Mr H took through L&G. 
Mr H borrowed £114,750 on the new mortgage. This amount covered the cost of settling Mr 
Hs previous mortgage, as well as repaying the personal loan, two of his credit cards, and 
covering the costs of setting up the mortgage.
Mr H has complained about the advice he received in relation to consolidating his debt into 
the new mortgage. He doesnt think L&G acted in his best interests, and the unsecured debt 
would be payable over the term of the mortgage and would therefore cost him more to repay 
in the long term. Mr H has also complained about the legal administration fee (LAF) that 
L&G charged of £250 + VAT. He says that this fee was disproportionate when compared to 
the work it covered, and on top of the arrangement fee of £2046. Mr G says that L&G should 
in fact have directed him to his existing lender in order to remortgage, as this would have 
saved him from paying an Early Repayment Charge on the previous mortgage, and wouldve 
reduced the cost to remortgage overall. 
L&G didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said that the advice it gave was suitable for Mr H, as 
his aim was to reduce his monthly outgoings at the time he remortgaged, and this was 
achieved. It also said that Mr H had agreed to pay the LAF during the mortgage application 
process, so it didnt agree this was unfair.
Our investigator considered the complaint and didnt recommend that it should be upheld. 
He noted that it was unusual that only two of Mr Hs seven credit cards were consolidated 
into the new mortgage, but overall he didnt conclude that this was unfair as this did still 
reduce Mr Hs monthly outgoings. He also explained that the LAF was clearly displayed on 
the paperwork that Mr H had signed before taking the new mortgage. So whilst he 
understood that Mr H may not think that the fee he paid was good value for money, or 
indeed understand what it covered, the investigator didnt think L&G unfairly charged it. 
Mr G didnt agree with investigators findings. So as the complaint hasnt been resolved, it 
has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome the investigator reached so Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
The key thing to consider in a complaint about the provision of advice is what information the 
advice was based on. Thats to say, what the adviser knew about their customer, and on 
which facts they based their advice. So Ive carefully reviewed the fact find document that 
was completed at the time Mr H met with the adviser.
At the time the fact find was completed, I can see that Mr H told the adviser he was paying 
£483 per month for his previous mortgage.  He also told the adviser that he was making the 
minimum repayments on all of his credit cards, totalling £132. And he was also making a 
monthly loan repayment of £385.56.
The fact find includes an Objectives & Aspirations section which required Mr H to rank 
certain statements in order of importance, as well as expressing other preferences such as 
the way hed prefer to reduce his mortgage debt. I note from this section that Mr H chose 
payment stability, a fixed rate mortgage, and refinancing debt within his mortgage as 
important to him, amongst other things. He also expressed that hed like to save money.
The recommendation summary explains to Mr H why the L&G adviser recommended what 
he did. It explains that a fixed rate mortgage was recommended as this was an important 
feature Mr H expressed. The recommendation also explains that Mr H had lost his 
confidence in the endowments that he was intending to use as repayment vehicles for the 
interest-only part of his previous mortgage, and the recommendation made was for a full 
repayment mortgage, ensuring it was fully redeemed at the end of the term. 
The recommendation also explains that the adviser recommended that Mr H consolidated 
two of his credit cards, as the mortgage rate was lower than the interest rate that Mr H was 
currently paying. This also applied to the loan. The recommendation explains that the 
adviser didnt recommend all of the credit cards were consolidated into the new mortgage as 
Mr H advised that the payments and balances on the other cards were low and manageable. 
Whilst it could be argued that it wouldve even further lowered Mr Hs outgoing if all of the 
credit card balances had been consolidated, based on what Ive said above I do think that 
the adviser had put some thought into this before making the recommendation he did. Im 
also persuaded that Mr H was aware he was able to express his preferences before the 
recommendation was made; as the notes suggest that Mr H had told the adviser which cards 
he did and didnt want to refinance. 
Turning to Mr Hs monthly outgoings, I can see that before re-mortgaging, Mr Hs outgoings 
on his credit commitments totalled around £1000  and this included the fact that Mr H was 
only making the minimum monthly repayment on all of his credit cards. After the remortgage, 
Mr Hs new monthly mortgage payment was around £804, plus £48 on his remaining credit 
cards, assuming he continued to make the minimum repayments. He also had the benefit of 
knowing that the two cards that had been consolidated, plus his personal loan and 
mortgage, would all be completely repaid at the end of the mortgage. Having considered everything, I dont agree that L&G gave Mr H poor advice to remortgage 
and consolidate some of his debts into his mortgage. This advice had the desired effect of 
reducing Mr Hs monthly outgoings, whilst also affording him the benefit of ensuring those 
debts were repaid at the end of the mortgage term. Im also mindful that although this was a 
personalised recommendation, Mr H was free to decline it if he didnt agree with it. As Mr H 
signed to accept the recommendation, I have to place some onus on him for understanding it 
and proceeding, even if he now says that he didnt want to.
Ive now thought about the LAF that Mr H has complained about. Hes complained that this 
fee was payable to the mortgage broker (representing L&G) on top of the fee that he paid to 
his solicitors. 
Whilst Ive thought carefully about what Mr H and his representative have said about this 
cost, I havent found that it was unreasonable that Mr H had to pay it. I do completely 
understand that Mr H doesnt see the value in the work that the broker did, but its up to the 
broker to set its own fees  as long as it adequately discloses them, and gets acceptance 
that its client is willing to pay them.
Ive seen a document titled Solicitors Form of Authorisation that Mr H signed. This form 
sets out the fees payable to L&G in addition to the other costs associated with the 
remortgage. And the form made it clear to Mr H that the cost of the Legal Administration Fee 
is £250 + VAT.    
Whilst I know that Mr Hs representatives have questioned the value of this fee, rather than 
the fact that Mr H agreed to pay it, I still dont agree that L&G shouldnt have charged it. 
Although I dont know exactly what work the fee covered, I dont think I need to. There are 
several administrative tasks involved with arranging a mortgage and the fact that Mr H 
agreed to paying the fee satisfies me that L&G didnt act unfairly.
Id like to reassure Mr H that Ive thought carefully about everything that he and his 
representative have said. I realise its unlikely that Mr H will agree with my findings, but for 
the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
   
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman