DRN-4039273
The complaint
Ms C and Ms E complain about AXA Assistance (UK) Limiteds (AXA) poor service following 
a claim under their home emergency policy. 
What happened
Ms C contacted AXA to make a claim as her toilet was leaking. It sent an engineer who 
identified that two valves needed to be replaced. They were replaced and the leak stopped. 
The engineers reported to AXA that the whole cistern was in poor condition and needed to 
be replaced. 
Ms C said that after the engineer had left, and the toilet was flushed this affected the 
pressure in the taps and showers in the property. So, she contacted AXA again. It sent 
another engineer who attended. He adjusted the pressure, replaced the cistern pump, and 
opened a valve. But there was another leak. 
Ms C and Ms E were unavailable due to being away, but when they returned another 
engineer attended and replaced the entire flush system and purported to leave the toilet 
without a leak. Ms C contacted AXA again as there was still a leak. It sent another engineer 
who repaired it and again said that there were no leaks. But Ms C contacted AXA again with 
another leak, she asked AXA for the same engineer to attend. But AXA said it was difficult to 
secure the same engineer.
AXA instructed another engineer, who ultimately carried out the repairs. But Ms C and Ms E 
said that those repairs took far too long to resolve the leak, and this caused damage to their 
property. Because of the poor workmanship and the damage caused, Ms C and Ms E 
complained to AXA. 
In its final response, it accepted that there was some poor service issues, for which it 
apologised. It said that as the water damage to the property was consequential to the leaks, 
under the policy, there was no cover for this. It advised Ms C and Ms E to make a claim 
under their home insurance policy for the damage. But for the poor service, it offered Ms C 
ad Ms E £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Ms C and Ms E were unhappy with the outcome, especially as they were unable to make a 
claim under their home insurance policy. So, they referred a complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and thought that it should be upheld. She said 
that the engineers exacerbated the issue and caused additional damage. She recommended 
that AXA either reimburse Ms C and Ms Es repair costs or arrange for the works to be 
undertaken. 
Ms C and Ms E accepted the view, AXA did not. It said that the leak wouldve caused 
damage to the property, and it wouldnt be fair for it to have to cover the entire reinstatement 
costs, as this is why there is home insurance. Because of this, it offered to pay 50% of the 
reinstatement costs, which it thought was fair. And it asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, for the same reasons as our investigator. And I 
hope my findings explain why I think this is fair.
Ms C and Ms E submitted a claim to AXA, because of a leak from their toilet. It sent 
numerous engineers, who Ms C and Ms E said werent able to resolve the leak, which in turn 
caused further damage to their property. 
Ms C and Ms E said that they were left without the use of two bathrooms, extensive damage 
to various areas of their home, until AXA eventually repaired the leak (after around five 
previous visits). Ms C and Ms E said that as a result of AXA engineers poor workmanship, 
this caused extensive damage to their home.
AXA recognised that there had been poor service and for this it offered £350. It said that the 
damage wouldve been caused by the leak, and this wasnt covered by the policy and Ms C 
and Ms E ought to claim under their home insurance. 
I think the main issue of this complaint is whether its fair and reasonable for AXA to cover 
the full cost of the reinstatement work needed. Having reviewed the evidence, Im satisfied 
that AXA did provide poor service. It accepted that there had been a failed repair and for this 
error, compensation was offered. I agree that AXA did make a mistake and it was right that it 
offer compensation in recognition of the error it made. I think that the compensation of £350, 
is fair and reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms C and Ms E. So, I wont 
comment further on this. 
I have next considered whether it is fair for AXA to make a 50% contribution towards the 
reinstatement costs needed. Or whether Ms C and Ms E ought to claim under their home 
insurance. 
Its clear that there was an initial emergency at Ms C and Ms Es home. That emergency was 
because of a leak to their toilet. AXA sent the first engineer to carry out the repair. And from 
the evidence, instead of the repair being successful, there was a loss of water pressure in 
their home, which later led to further leaks. 
Ms C and Ms E describe that the initial damage to their property was minimal, and I note that 
they had intended to cover the cost of any reinstatement themselves. But I think that AXA 
ought to have successfully repaired the leak much sooner than it did. If it had done so, I think 
its more likely than not that the damage wouldve remained minimal. 
I have been provided with several photographs of the damage and having reviewed those, 
Im satisfied that they show the damage becoming progressively worse, over time, before 
AXA successfully repaired the leak. Consequently, I think that as Ms C and Ms E were 
unable to claim on their home insurance (given that any claim would be due to poor 
workmanship which isnt covered) AXA should pay for the full cost of the reinstatement 
works. I say this as the ongoing escape of water over a period of time, caused extensive 
damage to their home. Putting things right
Taking all of the evidence into consideration, and to put matters right, I think its fair and 
reasonable for AXA to pay Ms C and Ms E £350 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused (if it hasnt done so already). And to either pay for all the reasonable reinstatement 
costs or to arrange of the repair work to be carried out.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
AXA Assistance (UK) Limited to either pay for all the reasonable reinstatement costs or to 
arrange for all the repairs and associated work to be carried out.
AXA Assistance (UK) Limited to pay Ms C and Ms E £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. If it hasnt done so already.
AXA Assistance (UK) Limited must pay the above compensation within 28 days of the date 
on which we tell it Ms C and Ms E accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must 
also pay interest at 8% a year simple on the above amount, from the date Ms C and Ms E 
accept my final decision, until it is paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C and Ms E to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman