DRN-2750876
The complaint
Miss S complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) was irresponsible to lend 
to her.
 
What happened
Miss S had eight loans from Mr Lender between March 2014 and August 2016 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Max Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 21 Mar 2014 £100 5d £108.75 27 Mar 2014 On time
24 Apr 2014 £400 55d £500.00 29 May 20142 x Rollovers
31 Jul 2014
3 31 Jul 2014 £300 6m £140.00 29 Jan 2015 21 Jan 2015
4 21 Jan 2015 £150 3m £94.40 30 Apr 2015 30 Mar 2015
5 31 Mar 2015 £500 6m £207.33 24 Sep 2015 8 Sep 2015
6 8 Sep 2015 £600 6m £240.00 25 Feb 2016 On time
7 25 Feb 2016 £400 6m £178.66 25 Aug 2016 19 Aug 2016
8 19 Aug 2016 £500 6m £247.33 23 Feb 2017 On time
Miss S says the loans ran consecutively and some were rolled over. She says that Mr 
Lender continued to allow her to borrow even though it should have realised she was in 
financial difficulties. Miss S adds that this made her financial problems worse as she was 
already in a debt management plan and her overdraft increased significantly.
Mr Lender says the first three loans fall outside the six-year time limit rules, so it only 
considered the later five. It says it conducted an employment check and a credit check and 
asked Miss S about her income and outgoings. It says it adjusted Miss Ss declared income 
and expenditure in line with its checks but it was satisfied the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator found that this service could look at all eight loans as Miss S said she only 
knew she had cause for complaint in November 2020. She said the complaint should be 
upheld in part. She considered proportionate checks were likely to have shown Miss S was 
having problems managing her money by loan 3 and that her pattern of borrowing by loan 6 
suggested she was becoming reliant on short-term loans. Our adjudicator said Mr Lender 
should refund interest charged on loans 3 to 8 (plus 8% statutory interest) and remove any 
negative information about loans 3 to 5 from Miss Ss credit file. She added that loans 6 to 8 
should be removed from the credit file in their entirety.
Mr Lender responded to say, in summary, that Miss S rolled over loan 2 twice, not three 
times as cited by the adjudicator, and that was in line with regulations. It added that the 
amount borrowed decreased between loans 2 and 3 and that Miss S signed to say she was 
not in a debt management plan (DMP), even though it seemed she was. Mr Lender says it 
was fair for it to rely on the information provided by Miss S at the time of loan 3 and the loan 
amount for loan 4 decreased again, in addition to a pay increase. It adds it was satisfied that 
the loan amounts were not excessive and that any increases were for valid reasons.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer, including:
the lower a customers net income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customers been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Miss S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.Loan 1
As this was Miss Ss first loan with Mr Lender and the repayment was only around 7% of her 
income, Im satisfied the checks carried out by Mr Lender went far enough. There was 
nothing in the available information to indicate Miss S was in financial difficulties, so I cant 
conclude Mr Lender was wrong to have approved loan 1.
Loan 2
Miss S repaid loan 1 on time, but the scheduled repayment on loan 2 was almost a third of 
her income. Even though Miss Ss declared disposable income was sufficient to make the 
£500 repayment, I consider Mr Lender should have ensured it really understood whether she 
had any other short-term loans at the time which may have made it unaffordable. Having 
looked at her bank statements, I cant see that Miss S needed to make any other payments 
to short-term lenders, so I cant conclude Mr Lender was wrong to have approved loan 2.
Loan 3
When Miss S applied for loan 3, I consider Mr Lender should have ensured it fully 
understood her financial circumstances before approving the application., I say that 
because:
Miss S had rolled over the repayment of loan 2 twice more after contracting to make 
just one interest-only payment;
Miss S applied for loan 3 on the same day shed repaid loan 2;
Loan 3 was an instalment loan, so Mr Lender needed to be sure she could 
sustainably make the repayments for six months;
Ive looked into what Mr Lender is likely to have found had it carried out better checks for 
loan 3 and I can see:
Miss Ss expenses were much higher than the £799 shed declared
oHer recurring costs totalled almost £650, before rent, food and other costs 
were taken into consideration;
She was paying £64 per month into a debt management plan;
Based on the figures Miss S had declared for rent and food, I think its likely that her 
disposable income was much lower than the figure Mr Lender used for its affordability 
calculations. Ive considered this, alongside the fact Miss S was already in a debt 
management plan, shed rolled over the repayments on loan 2, and applied for loan 3 the 
same day she repaid loan 2. Taking everything into account, I find its likely Mr Lender would 
have found the repayments to be unsustainable for six months had it carried out better 
checks.
I acknowledge that Mr Lender says Miss H signed to say she was not in a debt management 
plan, but if it had carried out proportionate checks, Im satisfied it would have found that the figure shed declared for loan repayments appeared to be, in fact, for the DMP. So I find it 
was irresponsible to have approved loan 3.
Loans 4 and 5
Miss Ss financial circumstances remained largely unchanged at the time of these loans and, 
given that she continued to have no breaks in her borrowing, Im satisfied proportionate 
checks would have shown that further lending was irresponsible.
I accept that the loan amounts decreased between loans 2 and 4, but I still consider the 
lending was irresponsible given that proportionate checks would have given clear indications 
that Miss S was already struggling financially, and her disposable income was a lot lower 
than shed declared.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Lenders lending history with Miss S, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised 
that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Miss Ss case, I think that this point was reached by 
loan 6. I say this because:
Miss S had been borrowing from Mr Lender for almost 18 months with virtually no 
breaks between loans;
Loans 6, 7 and 8 were all taken out on the same day the previous loan had been 
repaid and were for similar amounts;
Miss S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Mr Lender. Loan 8 
was taken out almost two and a half years after her first and it was for five times the 
amount;
Miss S had paid a lot of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender for an 
extended period.
I think that Miss S lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time;
the sheer number of loans was likely to have had negative implications on Miss Ss 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding Miss Ss complaint about loans 3 to 8, and Mr Lender should put things 
right.
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr 
Lender) should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss S towards interest, fees 
and charges on loans 3 to 8;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss S which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss S originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Miss S the total of A plus B;
D.Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file in relation to loans 
3 to 5. The overall pattern of Miss Ss borrowing from loan 6 onwards means any 
information recorded about these loans is adverse, so Mr Lender should remove 
loans 6 to 8 entirely from Miss Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman