DRN-2794034
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Intrum UK Limited is chasing her for repayment of an alleged debt 
which she believes is unenforceable. She says it hasnt supplied her with a copy of a 
regulated credit agreement she requested. She wants Intrum to stop its collection activities.
What happened
Mrs R tells us that in January 2020 she received a notice of assignment in relation to a debt 
its alleged she owed to a business Ill call T. The notice advised that Intrum had become 
the new owner of the alleged debt. Mrs R states that in accordance with the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) she sent a request to Intrum requiring that it supply her with a copy of 
the agreement relating to the alleged debt. She says that Intrum has failed to comply with 
her request. And has only sent her a copy of the application form  not the agreement itself. 
She believes this means the debt is unenforceable and she wants Intrum to stop trying to 
collect the debt from her.
Intrum told us that it had complied with the relevant sections of the CCA. And that it had sent 
Mrs R a copy of the agreement, copies of the terms and conditions applicable at the time the 
account was opened and when it was registered as defaulted. Together with a statement of 
the account. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She felt that Intrum 
had provided the documents that were required to meet its obligations under the CCA.
Mrs R didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs R feels strongly about this matter. And I accept that shed want to know 
that any business seeking to collect a debt from her was entitled to do so. I confirm that Ive 
read her most recent statement about the circumstances along with the other material.
Mrs Rs complaint amounts to alleging that Intrum hasnt sent her information with which its 
required to supply her. She further suggests that the failure to supply this information means 
that the debt its alleged she owes is unenforceable. And that Intrum should stop chasing her 
for the debt.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
At the outset, Ill say that I dont think that Im going to be able to provide Mrs R with the 
decision she would wish for.
During the course of her complaint Mrs R has made numerous references to matters of law. 
And shes quoted legislation that she considers to be relevant to her case. As an 
ombudsman, I dont apply the law  directly  although I have regard for it. My role is to 
determine this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable.
What that means for Mrs Rs complaint is that even if I agreed with her submissions on every 
point - and I dont - this wouldnt amount to a finding in law. Put simply, if Mrs R wishes for a 
legal declaration that Intrum hasnt complied with the terms of the CCA she would need to 
obtain such a ruling from a judge.
Ive seen a copy of the disputed document with which Mrs R has been supplied. Mrs R 
considers its only an application form. Intrum states that its a copy of the regulated 
agreement. 
I think the document can be fairly described as having a dual purpose. And to that extent 
theres merit in what both parties have said.
The document contains the following headline:
Apply for your T card today.  And it undoubtedly contains details which are in the form of an 
application. It lists personal and financial information relating to Mrs R. This appears to have 
been filled in by hand as it would be in an application.
But at the end of the form there is a section headed Your declaration. And there is a box 
which appears to contain Mrs Rs signature. Immediately above the signature the following 
sentence appears:
This is a Credit agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Sign it only if you 
want to be bound by its terms.
I think its clear that this document acts as both the application and the regulated credit 
agreement. And that by entering the details required and signing the form, Mrs R was both 
completing the application process and entering the agreement.
In my opinion, by providing the copy of this document - along with the terms and conditions 
and an account statement - Intrum has done sufficient to comply with its obligations under 
the CCA.
Finally, Ill briefly mention other issues which Mrs R has raised.  An unenforceable debt 
remains a debt. Unenforceable means that the creditor cannot take court action in an 
attempt to recover the debt. It can use other permitted methods.
As Ive already explained in relation to another aspect of this complaint, Im not able to make 
a legal ruling on the issue of whether this debt is or is not enforceable. But Ive seen nothing 
that persuades me that its not fair and reasonable for Intrum to try and collect this debt from 
Mrs R.In summary, I believe that Intrum has complied with requirement to provide a copy of the 
relevant regulated credit agreement to Mrs R. Along with the other information Ive referred 
to above.  As such I find that its fair and reasonable for it to seek to collect the debt from 
her. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman