DRN-4460284
The complaint
Mr A complains about the delays he said Origen Financial Services Ltd (Origen) caused 
during its transfer advice process which meant he subsequently received a significantly 
reduced Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV). 
What happened
Mr A was a member of an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) but wanted to transfer his 
benefits. He applied for a CETV which was sent to him on 3 July  although the date of the 
letter was 22 June 2022. This meant that the expiry date of the CETV was 
22 September 2022. 
He was also given Origens contact details  who were the designated adviser for the main 
OPS  and he contacted it on 25 July 2022. But Mr A belonged to a separate OPS - a 
buyout scheme which wasnt underwritten by the same scheme administrator. Its usual 
process wasnt to give members Origens details, but for the scheme administrator to deal 
with such potential transfers on a case by case basis.
But Origen said it could still act for Mr A and it arranged a telephone meeting for 
11 August 2022 to begin the process. This first stage of the transfer process was known as 
abridged advice during which Origen would set out to establish whether a transfer was in 
Mr As best interest. During the telephone call however Origen did explain that it might not 
be able to complete the transfer in the time left before the CETV expired - and would see if 
an extension could be granted. 
Origen requested an extension from the scheme on 22 August 2022 which was granted with 
no further objections from the administrator. But Origen didnt receive the information it 
required back from the scheme until 30 September 2022. So it made a further request for an 
extension on 6 October 2022 which was confirmed by the scheme, but the administrator said 
it had to check with the OPS insurer. The insurer said it wouldnt grant the request on 
12 October 2022, so Origen couldnt continue the transfer process without requesting a new 
CETV. When Mr A received an updated CETV the value had fallen significantly so he 
decided not to proceed any further.
He complained to Origen about the delays which he said prevented the transfer from 
completing using the original CETV, but Origen said it wasnt responsible for any significant 
delays. It did accept it should have submitted a consent form to the administrator quicker  
which meant it may have received scheme information a couple of weeks sooner than it did - 
and offered £500 for the distress and inconvenience that had caused. 
But Mr A didnt accept the offer and brought his complaint to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. He didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He 
thought there were possible delays caused by all the parties involved, but he didnt think 
Origen could have completed the transfer within the service levels it set out before the 
insurer rejected the request for a further extension. He thought the problem arose in the first 
place because the other parties involved incorrectly provided Mr A with Origens contact 
details. He also thought Origens offer of £500 for the delay it did cause was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr A didnt agree. He made the following points in response:
He thought that the scheme, the administrator, and Origen were all culpable in the 
failure of the transfer.
He only used Origen because the advice fee was paid by his OPS. He asked Origen 
if it was able to deal with his OPS and was told it could - although a slightly different 
process was required. But he though Origen failed to follow that process.
When he chased Origen about the lack of progress and updates, he was told an 
extension had been granted. If he had been told it hadnt been granted, he could 
have made alternative arrangements to enable completion within the original expiry 
date. 
He wasnt provided with updates about the transfer or about the original financial 
adviser leaving Origen. It only contacted him when it realised that adviser had 
followed the wrong process and it needed to request a new CETV.
He had followed the correct process and felt he wasnt responsible for any of the 
failures of the other parties involved. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view and the complaint was referred to an 
ombudsman. So its been passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator. I know Mr A feels 
strongly about this matter as shown through his submissions  so Im sure hell be 
disappointed with this outcome. But I think Origens offer of compensation is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances, and I dont think it should be held responsible for the 
issues which meant Mr A would have needed to transfer using a significantly lower CETV if 
he wished to complete the process. So Ill explain my reasons below.
Mr A is right to say that he isnt at fault for what happened here and that he simply asked for 
advice on a transfer of his OPS benefits and followed that advice process. He says the other 
parties involved here have caused the delays which meant he couldnt use his original 
CETV.  Mr A says that Origen didnt follow the correct advice process for his particular OPS 
and failed to update him regarding the progress of his transfer and the outcome of the 
requests for extensions to the CETV expiry dates.
Should Origen have undertaken the transfer?
Ive looked in detail at the process that should have been followed here and whether Origen 
acted fairly. I asked the OPS to explain the relationship between it and Origen and what 
agreements it had in place. 
My understanding is that the main OPS has a formal agreement for Origen to provide advice 
to pension scheme members at retirement, which it pays for. Origens details are included in 
the retirement pack that is sent to members when requested. I note that the retirement pack 
included the following statement. 
To help you make a decision you can contact Origen for independent financial advice on 
what is the best option for you. Origen has been appointed by the Trustee to provide 
Scheme members with impartial advice when they are ready to retire. The cost of the advice 
will be paid for by the Scheme, whichever option you choose.Please note that the Scheme will only pay once for you to have retirement advice, so you
should think carefully about whether you are ready to retire and take the advice. If you have
already taken advice from Origen that the Scheme has paid for, you will have to pay for any
further advice yourself. You can of course use your own financial adviser but would need to 
meet the cost of their advice yourself.
However the OPS has confirmed that Mr A belonged to a different part of the scheme which 
was part of a buyout arrangement. The process here is different  principally because the 
number of members is much lower  and Origens details arent generally included in the 
retirement pack. 
If a member of that scheme requests advice the OPS explains that Origen is an option for 
them to receive advice and provides its details so the member can make direct contact.
Origen is then required to contact the OPS for consent to give advice, although the OPS has 
confirmed this is simply to monitor the number of people involved so that it can decide if it 
needs to set up a more formal agreement with Origen going forward in relation to the buy 
out arrangement. The OPS says that it would always give this consent, so in Mr As case 
Origen would always have been allowed to provide him with retirement advice at no direct 
cost.
But the initial part of this process wasnt followed correctly here as Origens details were 
(incorrectly) included within the retirement pack - which allowed Mr A to contact it directly. So 
I cant say Origen did anything wrong up to this point as it wouldnt have been aware of the 
error that was made. Indeed when Mr A had a telephone appointment with Origen the 
adviser continued with the initial information gathering part of the process, only seeming 
surprised that Mr A had a retirement pack in his possession instead of it being provided to 
Origen directly. At this point however the CETV was over six weeks old, which was around 
half of the 12 week guarantee period before it expired.
 
So Origen was entitled to undertake the process of establishing whether the transfer was 
suitable for Mr A and the only aspect of the process that was different to that of the main 
scheme was for Origen to obtain consent from the administrator, which as Ive already 
explained was almost certain to be granted. 
I would however have expected Origen to point out to Mr A that, while it was able to help 
him, it might take longer because of the need to obtain consent and further information. I 
would also have expected it to explain the risks involved because, with the CETV already six 
weeks old, it may not have been able to complete the transfer within its usual timescales. So 
Ive gone on to consider whether Origen did make this clear to Mr A.
     
Did Origen mislead Mr A about its process and whether it could complete the transfer in 
time?
When Origen carried out its first telephone appointment on 11 August 2022, I dont think it 
was aware that Mr A had come to it through a different referral channel. So it went through 
its information gathering process, with a view to providing abridged advice which was the 
first stage of establishing the viability of the transfer.  It was only when it had established that 
there might be good reasons to transfer that Origen would then provide full advice with a recommendation about whether the transfer was in Mr As best (financial) interest. So Ive 
listened carefully to that phone conversation. 
The adviser confirmed that he hadnt been provided with a benefit statement so Mr A then 
emailed it to him. The adviser then worked through Origens terms of business document 
explaining its two stage process. He established that Mr A wanted to retire in next 2-3 years 
and draw a flexible income without restriction, as this was his main pension asset. So I think 
Origen followed its process correctly up to that point and was entitled to think that it could 
help Mr A to decide whether the transfer was suitable.
 
But when the adviser looked at the statement that Mr A sent him and understood that the 
CETV was already six weeks old, he explained that we might not have enough time. 
Normally we need 10 weeks to give you advice. We normally havent been given a CETV at 
this point. He then explained to Mr A that CETVs were currently falling, and he had recently 
come across values that had dropped by 30% in three months. He said he needed to speak 
to the powers that be and that they might be able to ask the trustees to extend (the CETV 
date).
Im not aware that the regulator has set out a specific timescale in which such transfers 
should be completed, but I dont think  from information Ive seen from other advisory firms 
 that Origens advice service levels were unreasonable given the complexity of the matter 
and the work involved. Ive also seen that the retirement pack provided by the OPS gave 
general guidance that if you need to obtain financial advice you should typically allow 6-8 
weeks.
So given that there were only five weeks remaining before the CETV expired at this point I 
dont think it was unreasonable for the adviser to highlight that it would be unlikely that 
Origen could complete its process in the time left and that, rather than apply for new CETV 
at that point, it should try to gain an extension to the original CETV. I think Origen was 
transparent with Mr A that there was the possibly of deadlines not being met, so I think Mr A 
would have been aware of that fact at that point. The situation regarding applications and 
deadlines was also clearly set out in the retirement pack which stated, If an application to 
proceed is not received by 22/09/2022 and, where applicable, evidence of appropriate 
independent advice by 03/10/2022, a revised transfer value will not be available free of 
charge until 12 months from the date of the original request. For an application to be valid, 
all forms (including those requiring completion by the receiving scheme) and evidence of 
your date of birth must be received by the deadline noted above.
Unfortunately Origen didnt then send its request for consent and for further information to 
the scheme administrator for another 11 days. I assume that during this time it became 
aware that Mr A belonged to the buyout OPS as opposed to the main scheme, and it would 
also seem that the adviser left Origen. I think, and Origen has accepted this point, that it 
didnt provide Mr A with a good level of service for this period and did cause some delay to 
the process. Ill set out what I think about that matter further on in my decision. 
But the reality of the situation was that although Origen was able to get a two week 
extension to the CETV expiry date, because it took another week to obtain the information 
from the scheme, it had to ask for a further extension. This extension was initially agreed by 
the administrator, but because consent was also required by the buyout scheme insurer this 
was then refused, which meant Origen couldnt progress things without a new CETV. 
I have carefully considered whether this delay and uncertainty about the extensions could 
have cost Mr A the chance to complete his transfer using the original CETV or, as he 
suggested to us, to make alternative arrangements for his transfer. But from the evidence Ive been provided with its clear that the insurer wouldnt have agreed the extension in any 
case. So unless the whole transfer process, including the abridged advice and then full 
advice and recommendation could have been completed in the two weeks following the first 
extension request  which I dont think was possible, then Im not persuaded that a transfer 
could have been made using the original CETV.
I have some sympathy for the position Mr A found himself in during that time, especially as 
he simply followed the process he was told by the OPS. But I think because the scheme 
administrator didnt follow its correct process in the first place it simply wouldnt have been 
possible for Origen to have gone through its two stage transfer process and given Mr A a 
fully researched and analysed recommendation in the time permitted. It must be 
remembered that by the time Origen first spoke to Mr A there were only around six weeks 
left before the CETV expired, and Origen had clearly told Mr A that its usual standard was to 
complete a transfer in around 10 weeks. In addition I havent seen anything to suggest that 
Origen made any guarantees to Mr A about when it could complete a transfer. So, although 
Origen could have contacted the scheme administrator for information sooner, I dont think it 
was likely that it could ever have achieved its aims without further CETV extensions.
And Origen wouldnt have been aware that extensions needed to be ratified by the insurer as 
its role in that process was simply to approach the scheme administrator  who had already 
agreed the first extension. So I dont think Origen was responsible for any mix up there. 
I understand the frustration and disappointment that the failure to complete the transfer using 
the original CETV would have caused Mr A  through no fault of his own. But Im not 
persuaded that this was Origens fault, although I accept that it did cause some delay during 
August 2022. Mr A had referred to Origen not following the right process for his particular 
OPS. But from the evidence Ive been provided with the only difference with Mr As scheme 
was that the administrator needed to give its consent, which seemed to be purely for some 
internal monitoring reasons. So I think Origen was entitled to think it could provide Mr A with 
advice, and the administrator has confirmed that it would have made Mr A aware of the 
benefits (no cost) of using Origen if hed asked had it followed the correct process in the first 
place. 
So there nothing to support the claim that Origen shouldnt, or indeed couldnt have advised 
Mr A. The problem in the end was the lack of time that Origen, and in my view any other 
adviser would have had in completing the transfer before the CETV deadline expired. It 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to suggest that Origen could have completed the transfer, 
given that it set out its service levels, in the time remaining regardless of any delays it may 
have caused or errors it made.  But I have gone to consider the effect of its delay and the 
compensation offer it made as a result.  
Origens compensation offer
Origen has accepted that it received Mr As consent form on 2 August 2022 but, because of 
an administrative error, it didnt forward that to the scheme administrator until three weeks 
later. This was clearly an error on Origens behalf which led to a delay in receiving 
information from the administrator.
 
But I cant reasonably say that this was the principal reason that the transfer couldnt be 
completed using the original CETV. I say that because it didnt prevent Origen carrying on with its fact finding or abridged advice service which it began on 11 August 2022.  It was 
during this part of the process that Origen identified that Mr A hadnt been referred through 
the usual process. But in any case, it was unlikely that it could carry out its full process 
before the expiry date of the original CETV.
I note that the insurer didnt grant a further extension on 12 October 2022, which was only 
around four weeks after the initial telephone appointment. I dont think its reasonable to 
suggest Origen would have been able to complete its transfer process in that timescale. 
As Ive said previously Origen said it would require around 10 weeks to complete the 
process and the retirement pack Mr A received said he should allow between 6-8 weeks. So 
it would be difficult to conclude that Origen should be able to recommend and implement a 
transfer in around half that time. 
 
Origens administrative delay shouldnt have happened and could have led to consent and 
information being received from the scheme administrator quicker. But I dont think it was the 
reason for the transfer not being carried out. However, Origen accepts that it should have 
acted in a timelier manner and has offered £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused. I 
have thought carefully about this offer and, in my view, its within the range of what I would 
expect to see for such an error. So I think its fair and reasonable in this case. 
My final decision
Origen Financial Services Limited has already made an offer to pay £500 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Origen Financial Services Limited should pay £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman