DRN-3341040
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Zopa Bank Limited (Zopa).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Zopa, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Zopa are responsible for that breach of contract. The
relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the
goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was about
seven years old and had completed about 50,481 miles so I think a reasonable person 
would expect some wear and tear to be present.
When we consider whether a car has been of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation
says we should consider whether it has proven durable. I dont think that can be said to be
the case here. 
As the car has failed within the first six months the relevant legislation puts the onus on the 
business to demonstrate that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply. In the case of 
durability, I think its reasonable to suggest that means the business should demonstrate the 
failure hasnt happened prematurely.
Zopa have provided a report from an independent engineer to support their claim that the 
fault wasnt present at the point of supply. Ive read his comments in detail and have also 
read his further comments, provided in mid-February 2022 in which he discussed our 
investigators findings.
The engineer has provided his thoughts on whether the engine was failing when the car was 
supplied and I understand his point that Mr M would have been unlikely to be able to 
complete 6,700 miles in the car had it been failing at that point. 
But the engineer has not explained why the engine on this car failed so early. I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect an engine to fail on a car after only 57,000 miles. I think 
theyd expect a modern engine to last considerably longer than that.
Theres been no evidence provided here that Mr M didnt look after the car or that it hadnt 
been properly serviced. The oil and water levels were noted to be at acceptable levels during 
the engineers inspection and there were no leaks identified. The engineers only comment 
on durability was that he thought use of 6,700 miles in three months demonstrated the car 
was durable. But I dont think theres been sufficient evidence to persuade me that this 
engine hasnt failed prematurely. 
I therefore think the car hasnt proven durable and has been of unsatisfactory quality.
Putting things right
The relevant legislation allows the business one opportunity to repair the car in these 
circumstances, but Mr M has already completed that repair. I think hes managed to mitigate 
the expense as I can see the engine was replaced at a significantly reduced cost from that 
quoted by the franchised dealership.
So, I think Zopa should refund the repair cost, including the labour cost. Theyll need to add 
interest to that refund and to any others as Mr M has been deprived of that money.
Mr M was unable to use the car from 27 August 2021 until it was repaired on 5 November 
2021. Its not fair for him to pay finance instalments for a car he couldnt use. So, Zopa will 
need to refund any payments he made towards his agreement in those periods.
Mr M had to pay for diagnostic work and wouldnt have had to do so if the car had been of 
satisfactory quality. So Zopa should refund those diagnostic costs too along with the charges 
Mr M incurred to have his car transported between garages.
Mr M has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to have his car recovered when it 
broke down and Ive read about the impact the distress of this issue has had on his work and 
mental health. In the circumstances, I think Zopa should pay him £250 to compensate him 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Zopa Bank Limited to:
Refund the cost of the repair including labour, totalling £5,587.94.
Refund any finance instalments Mr M paid between 27 August 2021 and 5 November 
2021.
Pay Mr M £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Refund the diagnostic charges of £99 and £366.Refund the costs of the recoveries of £207.
Add 8% simple interest* per year to any refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.
*If HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr M asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman