DRN-3326188
The complaint
Mr E complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) gave him a loan that he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Mr E took one loan from MoneyBoat on 14 May 2019. He borrowed £500 to be repaid with 
three monthly repayments of £218.84. Mr E has had some problems repaying this loan and 
based on the information provided by MoneyBoat an outstanding balance remains. 
Following Mr Es complaint MoneyBoat wrote to him with a final response letter outlining the 
checks that it carried out before the loan was granted and why the checks were 
proportionate. It didnt uphold his complaint. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr E referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Our adjudicator reviewed Mr Es complaint and she didnt uphold it. She said the checks 
carried out were proportionate and there was no indication that this loan may have been 
unsustainable for Mr E. 
Mr E didnt agree with the outcome, in summary he said;
His credit score had decreased in the months prior to the loan being granted. 
He had declared to MoneyBoat as part of his application that he didnt have any 
expenditure and that shouldve prompted MoneyBoat to investigate his 
circumstances further. 
Although MoneyBoat added £800 to his declared expenditure this still shouldve 
raised some questions. 
The adjudicator went back to Mr E to explain that his comments hadnt changed her mind. 
She said MoneyBoat had provided the results of the credit check it carried out at the time the 
loan was approved and there wasnt anything in those checks which may have prompted 
MoneyBoat to either decline the application or to make further enquires. So, she still didnt 
think Mr Es complaint could be upheld. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr E could afford to pay back the amount 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Es 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr E. These factors include:
Mr E having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr E having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr E coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr E.
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay the loan  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr E was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Es complaint.
In order to repay this loan, Mr E had to make three payments of around £219. And so, it was 
this sum that MoneyBoat needed to see that Mr E was likely to be able to afford. To do this, 
and as Ive set out above MoneyBoat was required to carry out a proportionate check. 
For this loan Mr E declared he had a monthly income of £2,250 and he declared he didnt 
have any monthly outgoings. Had MoneyBoat accepted these sums for his outgoings then I 
wouldve agreed with Mr E that something may have gone wrong, as it wouldnt be 
reasonable to believe a potential customer had no outgoings at all.  
However, as part of this application MoneyBoat carried out a credit search, based on the 
results of that check it believed that Mr E had £800 worth of outgoings each month and so it 
was reasonable of MoneyBoat to have used this figure. This left Mr E with a disposable 
monthly income of £1,450 which was more than enough to afford the monthly repayment 
figure of around £219. 
Ive also considered the credit search results in the round to see whether the results 
contained information that ought to have led MoneyBoat to either decline Mr Es application 
or to have prompted it to carry out further checks.The results do show that Mr E had 13 active credit accounts but he was within the credit 
limits of his accounts. He also, appears to have had some adverse information recorded with 
the credit reference agencies including a default but that was more than 36 months before 
the loan was approved, so it wasnt an indication that at the time Mr E was having or likely 
having financial difficulties.  
Mr E does seem to have had made at least 11 credit applications within the last three 
months but only four accounts had been granted within the last six months. I dont think, this 
information suggested that Mr E was having current financial difficulties. So overall, there 
isnt in my view enough to have prompted MoneyBoat to have carried out further checks. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen, that in my view, wouldve led 
MoneyBoat to believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the 
information Mr E had provided. 
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for 
MoneyBoat to have relied on the information Mr E provided along with the income and then 
rely on the expenditure figures taken from the credit search. These showed Mr E had 
sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. So, like 
the adjudicator Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about this loan. 
I appreciate that Mr E will be disappointed by this outcome and I hope my reasoning has 
explained why Im not able to uphold his complaint. I can see that he has spent considerable 
time providing the Financial Ombudsman with evidence of his circumstances at the time the 
loan was approved. But, based on what Ive seen, Im not uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman