DRN-3539759
Complaint
Mrs Z has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly refused to 
update her correspondence details and provide her with the details of accounts held in her 
name.
Background
Mrs Z had a joint account with Nationwide prior to leaving the United Kingdom (UK) in 
2013.  Mrs Z later found a statement, dated 23 March 2012, showing a balance in excess of 
£12,000.00 on the account. Mrs Z attempted to contact Nationwide to find out what the 
balance on the account was and also update her correspondence details. 
Nationwide refused to provide any information on the account as it didnt consider the 
documentation Mrs Z provided sufficient enough to verify her identity. Mrs Z was unhappy 
and made a complaint. As Mrs Z remained dissatisfied when Nationwide refused to uphold 
her complaint, she referred the matter to our service.  
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mrs Z and Nationwide had told us. She thought that 
Nationwide hadnt treated Mrs Z unfairly and so didnt recommend that Mrs Zs complaint be 
upheld. Mrs Z disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Im not upholding Mrs Zs complaint. Ill explain why 
in a little more detail.
As our adjudicator has explained, all financial institutions have procedures in place to 
establish a customers identity. Each financial institution will have its own identity and 
verification processes and where it isnt satisfied that it is receiving a request from an 
authorised party, it will usually refuse to process that request unless and until it is able to 
verify that customer. 
In this case, Mrs Z has presented documentation to Nationwide and has contacted it over 
the phone. However, Nationwide isnt prepared to accept Mrs Zs change of address without 
her visiting one of its branches because some of the information provided (other than          
Miss Zs address) doesnt match its records. So while I understand why Mrs Z may feel that 
she has provided enough documentation already, given Nationwides concerns over some 
discrepancies, I dont think that the stance it has taken is unreasonable here.
I appreciate that Mrs Z has said that it is difficult for her to visit a branch because shes 
outside of the UK. But as this is a joint account, it might be possible for the joint account 
holder to visit a branch (given it is also their account) and remove the current restrictions. If 
and when this is done, Nationwide would then be able to update Mrs Zs details on its 
systems and potentially obtain the information she is seeking.
So overall while I appreciate that Mrs Zs unhappiness at the situation, I dont think that 
Nationwide has treated her unfairly. This means that Im not upholding Mrs Zs complaint. I 
appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mrs Z. But I hope shell understand the reasons 
for my decision and that shell at least feel her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Zs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman