DRN-3881814
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has refused to refund the money he has lost 
following him falling victim to a scam.
When we first considered Mr Bs complaint it covered two scams. One scam that starter in 
2018 and another that started in 2021. Mr B has accepted our findings on the second scam 
so this decision will only cover the payments Mr B made in 2018-2019. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so I wont repeat what 
happened in detail.
In summary Mr B was contacted by a business called Millennium FX (X) about trading with it. 
X persuaded Mr B to download the screensharing application AnyDesk so that it could show 
him how the service worked in more detail. 
Mr B was convinced X was offering a genuine service so did as he was instructed by X. Mr B 
was told he could start investing with a small amount but eventually sent X more than 
£5,000. 
When Mr B tried to make a withdrawal from his investment, he was unable to and realised 
he had been scammed.
Mr B made the following payments using his debit card in relation to the scam:
1. 29 November 2018 - £196.46
2. 13 December 2018 - £136.07
3. 14 December 2018 - £45.99
4. 18 December 2018 - £200
5. 9 January 2019 - £196.77
6. 9 January 2019 - £4,958.56
Our Investigator considered Mr Bs complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr B didnt 
agree he said Lloyds should have done more to protect him from the scam.
As Mr B didnt agree this complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds was unable to process chargebacks for the payments Mr B made in relation to this 
scam to X via his debit card.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme set up to resolve card payment disputes
between merchants and cardholders. The card scheme operator ultimately helps settle 
disputes that cant be resolved between the merchant and the cardholder.
Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme, meaning there are only limited
grounds and limited forms of evidence that will be accepted for a chargeback to be
considered valid, and potentially succeed. Time limits also apply.
Due to the time that has passed this option was not available at the time Mr B made his 
complaint.
Mr B has accepted he authorised the payments that were made into the scam, albeit on Xs 
instruction. So, the starting point here is that Mr B is responsible. However, banks and other 
Payment Services Providers (PSPs) do have a duty to protect against the risk of financial 
loss due to fraud and/or to undertake due diligence on large transactions to guard against 
money laundering.
The question here is whether Lloyds should have been aware of the scam and stepped in to 
prevent the payments from being made.
The first five payments Mr B made from 29 November 2018 to 9 January 2019 were all for 
small amounts and were spread across different days. I think it would be unreasonable for 
me to suggest these payments should have triggered Lloyds fraud prevention systems. So, I 
dont think Lloyds would have had any concerns with these payments. 
The final payment Mr B made was for a higher amount of £4,958.56. While this was for a 
larger amount and Mr B had not made payments of this size from his account before, I dont 
think it was unreasonable that Lloyds fraud prevention systems werent triggered here 
either.
The size of this payment was not significantly high, and it would be unreasonable for me to 
say Lloyds should step in every time one of its customers makes a larger payment than 
usual to a new payee. Especially when that payee is not being considered as non-genuine at 
the time.
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable that Lloyds fraud prevention systems were not 
triggered by any of the payments Mr B made. So, Lloyds would not have been aware a scam 
was taking place and was unable to step in to prevent it. 
Lloyds is not responsible for Mr Bs loss and does not have to refund any of the payments he 
made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman