DRN-3738869
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (OCRF) rejected his claim 
against it under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in relation to his purchase of 
some solar panels.
Mr D is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr D bought solar panels for his home in or around July 2018. The purchase was funded by 
a loan from OCRF, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the 
installer under the relevant legislation. Mr D says the installer misled him into believing that 
the panels would be self-funding, which they werent. The CMC also alleges that the installer 
misled Mr D about the true cost of the panels, by failing to tell him that interest was charge 
don the loan.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented 
the system to Mr D and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC did not agree, and pointed out that it would take the panels 44 years to pay for 
themselves. It argued that nobody would buy them unless they had been misled. So the 
case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the sales documentation sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels 
very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost. It does not seem plausible 
to me that the salesman would have said otherwise, at the same time as showing Mr D 
something in writing which states the opposite.
There is a document titled Estimated Year One Returns. This is one page long, and is 
signed at the bottom by Mr D. In the middle, it says that the total estimated year one benefit 
is £339.36. Directly above that, it shows how this figure was worked out. I think this makes it 
clear that this benefit figure is the total revenue from the panels, not the profit after the loan 
payments have been made.
There is another one-page document, also signed by Mr D, titled Validation Sheet. This 
clearly sets out that the cash price of the panels was £9,899, the loan term was 120 months, 
the monthly loan payments were £127.96, and the total repayable including interest was 
£15,356.12. So I cant accept the CMCs allegation that the installer somehow concealed the 
interest from Mr D. And of course the same information would have been in the loan 
agreement too.
Obviously just three monthly loan payments of about £128 would exceed the total benefit in 
the first year of £339. So I think the sales documentation made it quite clear that the panels 
would not pay for themselves. For that reason, I am not persuaded that the installer ever told 
Mr D otherwise.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman
