DRN-1391722
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) gave him notice to close his credit card account 
without giving any reason placing him into difficulty.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr K and MBNA, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here. 
Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its relevant to the 
issues I need to deal with. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate.  
So I look at the issues raised and then consider all the available evidence. I take into 
account both sides views in considering whether MBNA acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr K.
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, direct that they 
change their processes, or punish them. That is for the regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). We cant give businesses direction on policy or procedure. We can only say 
whether it is a policy or procedure which is being applied fairly and reasonably to all 
customers. The FCA takes a principles-based approach to conduct regulation and lets 
businesses choose how they incorporate those principles into the way they deal with 
customers. This is reflected in the remit the FCA has given this service under the Dispute 
Rules in the FCA Handbook. 
Mr K applied for a credit card account with MBNA. In so doing his application was assessed 
and he was deemed suitable for an account. He ran the account for a few months without 
problem but then out of the blue MBNA gave him notice that it was closing his account. No 
reason was given, only that MBNA relied on the terms and conditions of the account. These 
say;
 
 
A9. Ending this agreementThis agreement has no fixed or minimum duration and can be ended by you or us. You can 
end it at any time by telling us by phone or in writing (see Our contact details below) and 
paying off your balance in full.
If we end the agreement, we will normally give you at least two months notice but may end it 
immediately in exceptional circumstances, for example, if we reasonably suspect criminal or 
fraudulent activity connected with the account, you seriously or repeatedly break this 
agreement or we would break the law by continuing the agreement.
Having checked the evidence I can see that MBNA complied with these terms and 
conditions by giving the appropriate length of notice. I very much appreciate that Mr K wants 
to know why MBNA took that decision, and why, if he had been assessed as suitable a few 
months beforehand, MBNA should effectively have changed their minds. He wants to know 
what changed or caused them to close his account. 
The terms and conditions on the account are very clear and do not require MBNA to give a 
reason. My role is to determine whether MBNA have acted fairly and reasonably and 
I conclude that they have, because theyve kept to their part of the agreement by giving the 2 
months notice. If the agreement had said that they were required to give reasons, then I 
would have no hesitation in finding in favour of Mr K, but they dont. MBNA didnt close his 
account without notice, so they dont need to explain what exceptional circumstances exist. 
Ive read Mr Ks comments following our investigators view, and I do empathise since he 
clearly wants an explanation. But as hes not entitled to one, MBNA arent required to give 
one.
So, although Mr K will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say MBNA acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against MBNA Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman