DRN-3140411
The complaint and what happened
Mr N complains that Santander UK Plc blocked his card following a fraud attempt. This 
caused him embarrassment when he tried using his card and it was declined. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
On 28 July 2021, at 4:09am Mr N was sent a text message asking him to confirm 
whether payment transactions were carried out by him. He confirmed No and the 
transactions were stopped. A temporary block was placed on the card.
Santander attempted to contact Mr N to no avail about the transactions, which 
included leaving a voicemail. 
At around 9:30am Mr N contacted Santander but hung up  as a result the temporary 
block became permanent as it couldnt verify his identity. 
Mr N later called Santander after his card had been declined whilst shopping. He was 
ultimately told the block was permanent and a new card ordered. He was also 
advised a new card had been sent previously due to a change in card scheme 
provider. Upon being told that hadnt arrived, Santander cancelled that card also (it 
later transpired there was a delay in a number of new cards being sent).  
Mr N complained but Santander didnt think it had done anything wrong. Our 
investigator didnt think it had either. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although I have only set out the key points of the 
complaint, I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons:
Im satisfied it was reasonable for Santander to fully block Mr Ns card when it wasnt 
able to verify him, following his confirmation that he hadnt carried out certain 
transactions. As fraud had been attempted on his account, the card details were 
likely compromised and so blocking the card would have prevented further fraud 
taking place. Such action is standard within the industry to protect customers from 
financial harm. 
I understand Mr N is unhappy that the text message he received querying the 
transactions didnt explain that answering no would result in the card being blocked. 
It seems to me the importance of the text was to gain an understanding of whether 
the account holder had carried out transactions or not, with the intention of getting a 
quick and honest response  either to help the bank prevent fraud, or to carry out a 
genuine payment instruction without undue delay; including such information isnt 
typical.  In any event, what information Santander gives in texts is a matter for it and 
not something I would generally interfere with. Nevertheless, it has let us know that 
the feedback has been passed on. 
I accept that Mr N wasnt able to get through to Santander when he wanted to. 
However, I also understand that Santander had tried to contact him that morning, 
several times and on several different numbers. Its unfortunate they didnt manage 
to discuss the account until after he had tried using the card, but I dont find it did 
anything wrong; sometimes phone lines are busy or not manned at certain times. 
And Santander had by that time already blocked the transactions in question, 
preventing Mr N from suffering financial loss as a result of fraud.  
Mr N has also referred to the new scheme card  and that Santander knew there was 
a delay in cards being sent out at the time he called, but didnt tell customers about 
that until much later. I dont know whether Santander knew that at the time of the 
attempted fraud or not. But even if it did, I dont think it has any bearing here; Im 
satisfied Santander was right to block the card and I dont find it did anything wrong 
in relation to that. 
I do understand Mr N was frustrated by the situation. But as Im not persuaded Santander 
did anything wrong, I wont be upholding this complaint or making an award. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman