DRN-3555202
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lowell Financial Limited incorrectly reported months of missed 
payments on his credit file. He wants Lowell to remove the missed payments from his credit 
file and pay him compensation.
.What happened
In 2018 and 2019, Lowell Portfolio I Limited bought two accounts in Mr Os name and
appointed Lowell Financial Ltd to manage them on its behalf. Mr O was already in a debt
management plan (DMP) that included these two accounts.
In late 2020 and again in early 2021, Mr O couldnt make payments on the accounts due to
personal reasons.
In 2021, Mr O was unhappy to find that Lowell had been reporting missed payments every
month. After he complained to Lowell, it agreed that it shouldve been reporting a 2 instead
of a 4 status after Mr O missed payments in late 2020 and March 2021. Lowell sent Mr O
£75 to apologise and amended the status back to 2.
Mr O thinks that Lowell has engaged in a campaign to damage his credit rating by reporting 
payments as missed when theyve not been missed. Mr O explains how the situation has 
negatively impacted his mental health.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mr Os complaint be upheld. He thought Lowells
payment of £75 was a fair way to apologise for reporting the wrong status number.
Mr O was very unhappy with the investigators recommendation. He didnt understand why 
all the payments hed made to Lowell in 2021 were being reported as missed. As Mr O 
disagreed with the investigators recommendation, the complaint came to me.
After considering all the evidence I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr O 
and Lowell on 23 May 2022. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to issue a provisional decision because although I dont intend upholding the
complaint, Ive referred to some new information that I received from Lowell.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me.
Lowell is managing two of Mr Os loan accounts. When Mr O missed payments in December
2020 and March 2021, Lowell reported these to the credit reference agencies (CRAs). I cant
reasonably find that Lowell was wrong to do this even though Mr O explained at the time
why he couldnt make the payments.
I appreciate that Mr O feels Lowell has been waging a bullying campaign against him but I
dont consider this to be the case. Although Mr O gave this service copy reports which show
a series of missed payments on his Lowell accounts, these reports didnt come from one of
the three main CRAs. Instead they came from businesses which offer customers a way to
check their credit information for free, but dont usually provider the same level of information
as a credit report from one of the three CRAs.
When a payment is missed, Lowell usually reports the status as a 1. My understanding of
the way in which credit accounts are reported is that until the arrears are brought up to date,
the 1 status will continue to be reported. If a further payment is missed, as was the case
with Mr O in March 2021, the status number will increase. Again, until the account is brought
up to date, the status number will continue to be reported. As Mr O is paying less than the
contractual amount due each month, he hasnt brought the arrears on his accounts up to
date so the status number will continue to be reported. This does not mean that Lowell is
mistakenly reporting missed payments every month.
When Lowell reported a missed payment status of 1 or 2 for Mr O, it appears that the free
credit reports translated the status numbers into an X or a missed payment, across each
month after the first payment was missed. I dont find that this was due to a mistake that
Lowell made.
In September 2021, Lowell accepted that after Mr O missed payments in late 2020 and then
March 2021, it shouldve reported a 2 status rather than a 4 status. Im satisfied that
Lowell asked the CRAs to amend the status from 4 to 2 as it said it would. I consider that 
its payment of £75 to apologise was fair. Particularly as I dont have any evidence to 
suggest that Mr O suffered a financial loss because of Lowell reporting the higher status.
The latest credit report that we have for Mr O does show that from September 2021 his
payment status history has increased to a 4. As this has happened since Mr O complained,
the investigator said he couldnt consider this further. However, to try and support Mr O, I
asked Lowell why there was a jump in his status history.
Lowell has explained that due to new guidance, it has changed the way it reports on
customers currently in DMPs. The jump in status is in line with the new process and reflects
the fact that payments are being made below the contractual amounts.
In its letter of 29 July 2021, Lowell explained to Mr O that the status of his account may 
change in the future as he was paying less than the contractual amount owed. Lowell has
since confirmed that it has stopped reporting this account due to a problem with the 
information it receives from the original creditor. But if Mr O remains concerned about the
status number for the other account that Lowell continues to report on, he can take this up
with Lowell.
Im very sorry to hear about Mr Os mental health concerns, but for all the reasons Ive 
outlined above, I dont intend upholding his complaint. This means Im not requiring Lowell to
amend Mr Os credit file.
Further submissions
Mr O didnt reply to my provisional decision and Lowell had nothing further to add.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive not been asked to consider any further evidence or information, I consider it 
reasonable to make my final decision along the lines of my provisional decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider Lowell Financial 
Limited has already offered and done enough to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman