DRN-2872238
The complaint
Mr D complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) said it would reduce his overdraft limit which 
meant he sold shares he owned to repay it but was later told the overdraft limit would 
remain.
What happened
Mr D says BoS told him his overdraft limit was to be reduced from £1,200 to £520. He says 
he applied for the limit to remain, but his application was refused. Mr D says he then sold his 
only asset which was a number of shares, but three days after doing so received a letter 
from BoS telling him the £1,200 overdraft limit was to remain. He says his has suffered a 
consequential loss and would like BoS to pay for that loss.
BoS says it has paid £50 for poor service and the amount of calls Mr D made to it. It says it 
wrote to Mr D on 12 October 2020 telling him his overdraft limit was reducing on 18 
November 2020. BoS says Mr D called it on 17 November 2020 and it refused Mr Ds 
application but later reviewed it and wrote to Mr D on 18 November 2020 to update him. It 
says Mr D told it he received the letter on 23 November 2020 which was after he sold his 
shares.
Mr D brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
thought BoS was entitled to review an overdraft limit and that it wasnt its fault Mr D didnt 
receive the update letter until after he sold his shares. The investigator thought that if Mr D 
had been told on 17 November 2020 that the overdraft limit would remain then it likely he 
would have kept the shares. But thought there no guarantee what those shares would be 
worth and no guarantee of a loss. The investigator didnt think the compensation went far 
enough and recommended BoS pay a further £100.
BoS agrees with the investigators view.
Mr D doesnt accept that view and says he calculates his loss at £1,200 and maintains he 
wouldnt have sold the shares if told the overdraft limit was remaining.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr D will be disappointed by my decision. I also make clear that although I 
disagree slightly with the investigators view this complaint doesnt require a provisional 
decision for the reasons I will explain.
I have looked at BoSs records and the letter Mr D received. I can see that BoS wrote to Mr 
D on 12 October 2020 telling him that the overdraft limit was reducing from £1,200 to £520. 
Im satisfied that its up to BoS to decide upon such matters when exercising its commercial 
judgement and not something I can fairly interfere in. I also think that an overdraft is payable 
on demand and that I dont think Mr D has explained why he didnt speak to BoS, about the 
overdraft limit when he received the letter of 12 October 2020, far sooner.
I have listened to the telephone calls between the parties and Im satisfied BoS reviewed its 
decision and was entitled to conclude that it wouldnt change its decision about the overdraft 
limit. I accept that Mr D decided to sell the only asset he had which were the shares, but I 
have made clear that calling BoS the day before the limit was due to reduce was Mr Ds 
choice. I appreciate BoS decided the following day on 18 November 2020 that Mr Ds 
overdraft limit would remain and wrote to him that day. Im satisfied that BoS is entitled to 
review such matters at any stage and that its up to it to decide what the overdraft limit 
should be.
Im satisfied BoS wrote to Mr D on 18 November 2020 and that it isnt responsible for the 
delivery of the mail. I cant hold it responsible for Mr D receiving the letter some days after he 
sold the shares. Im also satisfied it was Mr Ds decision to sell the shares and I have not 
seen any evidence of direct consequential loss in any event. I dont think it possible to say 
what the longer-term value would be of the shares even if I thought BoS responsible for their 
sale.
Overall, I can see that BoS has agreed to increase its compensation offer to a total of £150. I 
have made clear that I dont think BoS made a mistake by changing its mind about the 
overdraft limit. I also think that decision was made after the telephone calls between the 
parties, but I think it would be unfair to interfere in that agreed award. I appreciate Mr D may 
not wish to accept that compensation offer and so will leave it to him to decide. I also think 
that BoS has acted fairly by offering a fair and reasonable compensation amount in these 
circumstances and for the time and inconvenience Mr D experienced in calling BoS. I 
appreciate that is not the main part of Mr Ds complaint and I think this now brings an end to 
what we in trying to resolve this dispute can do.
Putting things right
BoS has agreed to pay a further £100 compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the main part of this complaint and that Bank of 
Scotland plc has made a fair and reasonable compensation offer of a further £100. Mr Ds 
acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman