DRN-3317187
The complaint
Mr B complains about a guarantor loan provided to him by UK Credit Limited, (UKC), which 
he says was unaffordable. Mr Bs complaint has been brought to this service on his behalf by 
a claims management company. But for ease, I shall refer below to all actions being taken 
by Mr B. 
What happened
UKC agreed a guarantor loan for Mr B on 11 August 2016. The loan was for £8,500 and was 
repayable by 60 monthly payments of £288.73. The interest rate was 32.6%, (37.9% APR). If 
Mr B made each repayment when it was due, the total amount payable would be 
£17,323.80.  Mr B told UKC that the loan was for debt consolidation. According to the most 
recent information Ive seen (February 2021), the loan hasnt yet been repaid. 
Mr B says that UKC didnt properly undertake affordability checks when granting him credit 
nor did it assess signs of his over indebtedness. He said that the unaffordable high cost loan 
worsened his financial situation which was already poor. 
In its final response letter, UKC said that it had conducted a creditworthiness and 
affordability assessment proportionate to the loan. And it established that Mr B could afford 
the loan, and that the loan would not have a negative impact on his indebtedness or ability to 
maintain any of his existing outgoings. It had carried out electronic checks, seen payslips 
and bank statements and had a verbal discussion with Mr B around his financial 
commitments and circumstances. UKC was satisfied that the loan was affordable and 
sustainable and that it had carried out all necessary due diligence in order to make sure that 
the loan wouldnt put Mr B in a worse financial position.
Our investigators view
Our investigator recommended that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
UKC had carried out proportionate checks. He said that there were signs in UKCs credit 
checks that Mr B might not have been in a stable financial position and were suggestive of 
someone who might have been struggling financially. He thought these should have 
prompted UKC to complete more thorough checks including evidence. The investigator had 
reviewed Mr Bs bank statements and noted that two of his current accounts were overdrawn 
and that Mr B was paying unauthorised borrowing fees each month on one of his accounts. 
He concluded that this showed that Mr B wasnt in a stable position and proportionate 
checks wouldve shown that this loan would be unsustainable.
UKC responded to the investigators view by asking to see the bank statements for the two 
current accounts which the investigator had referred to in his view. It said that the bank 
statements provided to it by Mr B had evidenced very limited living costs. Mr B agreed to 
these being sent to UKC.
UKC reviewed the statements and disagreed with the investigators view. It said that one of 
the accounts (Account A) wasnt used for income or expenditure purposes and only 
represented a third of how Mr B conducted his finances. The account was mainly used for 
transfers from one account to another, and no money transferred into this account actually 
remained in it. The account had an overdraft which Mr B said he would repay with the loan 
proceeds. 
With regard to the second account which appeared to be Mr Bs main current account 
(Account B), it noted that the unplanned overdraft charges the investigator referred to were 
in April 2016, July 2016 and August 2016 and the time Mr B was overdrawn was no more 
than one or two days, relatively infrequent and for a small sum. The overdraft would be 
rectified by either a cash payment or a transfer from another account. UKC also said that   
Mr B had very little in the way of regular costs on the account statements.
UKC could see that Mr B was meeting his monthly credit commitments and its credit checks 
showed no signs of financial difficulty. The lender also noted that without sight of the bank 
statements for another account (Account C) from which incoming transfers were made, it 
didnt know the full extent of Mr Bs financial circumstances. But it concluded that with Mr Bs 
net income of £1,200, its loan repayment of £288.73, other costs totalling £218 and no rent 
or utility bills to pay for, there would have been sufficient disposable income to account for 
any additional non-essential spending and the option of whether to increase the amount     
Mr B paid towards his savings. 
So, UKC disagreed with the investigators view that proportionate checks wouldve shown 
that this loan would be unsustainable. 
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B
and to UKC on 19 January 2022. I summarise my findings:
I said that where information was conflicting or incomplete, I needed to make my decision on 
the balance of probabilities, which was what I did here in relation to certain aspects of the 
complaint.
I noted that when UKC lent to Mr B, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). Its rules and guidance obliged UKC to lend responsibly. As set out in CONC, this 
meant that UKC needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or 
not a borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the 
lifetime of the agreement. 
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet repayments out of normal 
income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow further to meet those 
repayments.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment each time - 
sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check. Neither the 
law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed to carry out an appropriate 
assessment or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice. The FCA said that 
the level of detail would depend on the type of product, the amount of credit being 
considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers financial 
situation, amongst other factors.The checks had to be borrower focussed  so UKC had to think about whether Mr B could 
sustainably repay his loan. In practice, this meant that the lender had to ensure that making 
the payments to the loan wouldnt cause Mr B undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In 
other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr B. 
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks 
- the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income); 
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
- the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit was 
likely to be greater and the borrower was required to make payments for an extended 
period);
Id noted that UKC had spoken to Mr B on the phone and gathered some information from 
him about his income and expenses before it agreed the loan. Mr B had provided UKC with 
a payslip for June 2016 and bank statements from a current account for the period                
12 May 2016 to 4 July 2016. It had also carried out a credit check.
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with UKC. He would need to make monthly 
repayments of £288.73 for 60 months. So, I thought it was right that UKC wanted to gather, 
and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Bs financial circumstances 
before it agreed to lend to him. I thought that the checks Id described above allowed UKC to 
form a detailed view of Mr Bs finances, and I thought that the checks UKC did were 
proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needed to 
react appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Those results might 
sometimes lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. 
Or, in some cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, 
Id looked at the results of UKCs checks to see whether it had made a fair lending decision.
Id noted that UKC had seen Mr Bs payslip for June 2016.This showed a net pay of 
£1,205.29. But I could see that Mr Bs overtime and holiday pay amounted to around £200. 
So, it was possible that his net monthly pay might be substantially less in other months. So, I 
didnt think UKC could rely on the net salary amount shown in the payslip as being 
guaranteed income going forward. In view of this, I thought it might have been reasonable 
for UKC to have gathered more information about Mr Bs most recent pay for the purposes of 
its affordability calculations.
Id listened to a recording of the call between UKC and Mr B in which Mr B provided the 
lender with more information about his employment, outgoings, and credit commitments. He 
said he wasnt paying rent, council tax or gas and electricity. But he was paying for water, an 
internet package, and mobile costs as well as food, travel, clothes and going out. His living 
costs were relatively low. UKC asked Mr B about certain transactions on the bank 
statements it had seen. It noted that Mr B was making transfers to another bank account and 
that he was saving on average around £250 each month. UKC calculated that Mr B would 
have a monthly disposable income of around £208 (after normal living costs, UKCs loan repayment, other credit commitments, and saving £250), although Id noted that this was 
reduced to £174.23 in UKCs final response letter.
Id also reviewed UKCs credit checks. I noted that these showed five credit cards and four 
current accounts. One of the credit cards was £59 over its credit limit of £2,400 and the 
balances on four of the credit cards were approaching their respective credit limits. One of 
the current accounts had an overdrawn balance of £915 which was near the overdraft limit of 
£950, but the other current accounts didnt have an overdraft facility. But I could see that 
there appeared to be no signs of missed payments on any of the accounts, nor were there 
any defaults. There were no payday loans or other loans. As Mr B told UKC he was using 
the loan proceeds to pay his overdraft and the three highest credit card balances, I could see 
that his remaining credit card balances totalled around £1,100. Altogether, I didnt think the 
results of its credit checks were enough to raise any significant concerns for UKC especially 
as the three highest credit card balances and Mr Bs overdraft were being consolidated by its 
loan.
Id also reviewed the bank statement UKC received from Mr B. It covered the period           
12 May 2016 to 4 July 2016. Whilst, I could see that the account was briefly overdrawn for a 
total of eight days during this period, it was for a small amount. In itself, I didnt think this was 
enough to raise any particular concerns. The statement showed no apparent issues such as 
gambling or returned payments. There was nothing on it to suggest to me that Mr B was at 
that stage dependent on credit or that he was having problems managing his finances. 
There was very little spending on essential living costs, although I couldnt see on the 
statement all the living costs provided by Mr B in his call with UKC. But Id also noted from 
the bank statement that there were several transfers to two of Mr Bs other current accounts. 
I thought UKC ought to have been concerned that it hadnt seen statements for all of Mr Bs 
current accounts. So, I didnt think it could have had a complete picture of Mr Bs financial 
situation from what it had seen. I couldnt see that UKC had asked for copies of these 
statements. 
Altogether, I didnt think UKCs checks went far enough. UKC didnt have a complete picture 
of Mr Bs financial situation because it didnt have monthly statements for all four of his 
current accounts and it couldnt be sure of Mr Bs income going forward. I thought it needed 
further evidence of Mr Bs financial circumstances. This was so UKC could assure itself of 
Mr Bs true financial position and that he could make the loan repayments in a sustainable 
way. As I couldnt see that it did this, I said I would need to consider what UKC would have 
seen if it had carried out further checks.
What would further checks have shown? 
Id reviewed Mr Bs bank statements for two of his accounts and asked the investigator to 
ask Mr B for some more information about his situation to see what better checks would 
have shown UKC.
Id noted that after the investigator had issued his view, Mr B sent UKC copies of the bank 
statements provided to this Service by Mr B. These included the statements for Mr Bs 
overdrawn account (Account A) which was mainly used for account transfers, and also 
statements for Mr Bs main current account for which UKC had received statements covering 
a limited period at the time of the loan application (Account B).
I didnt share the same concerns as the investigator about Account A. I could see that it was 
used mainly for transfers between accounts and wasnt the account Mr B was using for 
paying his living costs and credit commitments. I could also see that there was an overdraft 
limit of £950 and that Mr B stayed within the overdraft limit. Id also noted that Mr B intended 
to pay the overdraft on this account with the loan proceeds.I also didnt share the same concerns as the investigator about Account B. I could see that it 
was overdrawn briefly for four days between 14 July 2016 and the loan application in mid- 
August 2016. But I didnt think the account was showing significant signs of financial 
distress. The statements also didnt show any apparent issues such as gambling or returned 
payments. In general, the account appeared to be well managed. 
I was more concerned that I couldnt see a total cash payment of around £1,200 in respect of 
Mr Bs July 2016 salary payment. I could see several cash deposits totalling around £870 
paid into the account over a period of two weeks around the end of July 2016. So, I asked 
the investigator to ask Mr B more about his pay in July 2016. Mr B said that he was paid in 
cash, but he didnt always bank all his pay and used some cash for spending. On balance, I 
didnt think this ought to have caused UKC significant concerns if it had asked more about 
this.
Id also asked the investigator to ask Mr B for the bank statements for the accounts we 
hadnt yet seen (Accounts C and D). Mr B sent us the statements for Accounts C and D 
which Id reviewed. I could see that they were mostly used for transfers between Mr Bs 
various accounts, and I didnt think they would have caused UKC significant concerns if the 
lender had seen them. 
So, from the information Id seen, I didnt think better checks by UKC would have uncovered 
anything that would have shown that Mr B might have difficulty repaying his loan sustainably. 
Looking at the statements for all four of Mr Bs current accounts, there was nothing to 
suggest to me that Mr B was at this stage dependent on credit or that he was having 
problems managing his finances. In particular, Id noted that Mr B appeared to be able to 
save amounts from £300 to £730 nearly every month. Id noted hed told UKC that he made 
transfers to a friend who put these amounts into a joint savings account. 
Looking at everything in the round, I hadnt seen enough to find that UKC ought to have 
declined to lend to Mr B. So, I didnt think UKC had acted unfairly when it provided the loan 
to Mr B and subject to any further representations by Mr B or UKC , I didnt intend to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint. 
UKC responded to my provisional decision to say that it had no further comments.
Mr B responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary, that:-
- If further checks were done at the appropriate time, there could have been a  
different outcome on the loan being approved. 
- At the time, he was using all of his lenders credit, transferring from one to another to 
avoid being overdrawn for long periods of time. There was no sign of the situation 
getting better as all credit cards were near maximum and he was barely able to meet 
the minimum payment each month. His financial situation was getting worse every 
month. 
- He said that it shouldnt be assumed that he wasnt in financial hardship or that he 
didnt have hidden costs. He was severally depressed and drinking and owed money 
to friends. 
- He was significantly dependent on his overdraft being available. 
- For someone with his disposable income and savings, UKC should have queried why 
he was continuing to use high volumes of credit where the balances were not 
reducing.
- With regard to the money which Id said he appeared to be saving, he needed to 
access that money to meet his expenses. He provided a bank statement to show 
this. - Some of the cash withdrawals and spending would have been used for gambling and 
drinking when he was unwell, and wouldnt have been used for savings. Proof should 
have been requested of his savings. 
- This has caused much anxiety and distress. He is working with a debt charity to help 
with his financial matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Im sorry to hear about Mr Bs health and financial problems.
Mr B has provided some further comments in response to my provisional decision. Although 
I have only summarised above what Mr B said, I can reassure him that I have read each of 
his responses carefully.
Mr B also provided some information about events after taking out the loan. But my decision 
is based on what happened at the time the loan was agreed, and not what happened 
afterwards. So, I havent considered these comments further.
I would like to respond to some of the matters that Mr B has raised in response to my 
provisional decision. I have put summaries of some of Mr Bs comments in italics below, 
followed by my response to those comments. 
Mr B said that if further checks were done at the appropriate time, there could have been a 
different outcome on the loan being approved. 
As Ive said above, CONC didnt specify what level of checks was needed. But it did say that 
a lender needed to take reasonable and proportionate steps to assess whether or not a 
borrower could afford to meet its loan repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime 
of the agreement. And repaying debt in a sustainable manner meant being able to meet 
repayments out of normal income while meeting normal outgoings and not having to borrow 
further to meet those repayments. 
I said above that UKC had spoken to Mr B about his income and expenditure, it had seen a 
payslip, obtained bank statements, and carried out a credit check. I thought these were 
reasonable and proportionate checks in Mr Bs circumstances and allowed UKC to form a 
relatively detailed view of Mr Bs finances, although I didnt think UKCs checks went far 
enough. Id thought that UKC didnt have a complete picture of Mr Bs financial situation 
because it didnt have monthly statements for all four of his current accounts and it couldnt 
be sure of Mr Bs income going forward. 
However, the investigator obtained copies of Mr Bs bank statements for his other accounts 
and, having reviewed those statements, I didnt think better checks by UKC would have 
uncovered anything that would have shown that Mr B might have difficulty repaying his loan 
sustainably. 
In addition, although UKC couldnt be certain of Mr Bs income going forward, I could see 
that his basic salary of around £1,211 (without holiday pay and overtime) would leave him 
with disposable income of around £225 each month after payment of his normal living costs, 
credit commitments (after consolidation of his debts) and the loan repayment. I can also see on the payslip Mr B gave UKC that his average monthly gross salary since April 2016 had 
been around £1,440. So, his monthly disposable income was likely to be over £400, if 
£1,440 was around the typical amount hed receive going forward. 
Mr B said that proof should have been requested of his savings.
I dont think it would have been reasonable nor proportionate for UKC to have requested 
proof of savings in addition to the other checks it had carried out. 
Mr B said that he was using all of his lenders credit and transferring from one to another to 
avoid being overdrawn for long periods of time. There was no sign of the situation getting 
better as all credit cards were near maximum and he was barely able to meet the minimum 
payment each month. His financial situation was getting worse every month. UKC should 
have queried why he was continuing to use high volumes of credit where the balances were 
not reducing.
I can see that UKCs credit checks showed that Mr B had a credit card account that was over 
its credit limit and three accounts approaching their respective credit limits. But they also 
showed that Mr B was meeting all his monthly payments and there were no signs of missed 
payments, defaults, or short term loans. I can also see that Mr B hadnt taken out any new 
credit in the eleven months prior to the loan application. So, the checks didnt show a recent 
need for new credit. The credit checks information Id seen wasnt detailed enough to show 
the monthly changes in Mr Bs credit balances. But I can see that Mr B would have been 
spending a considerable proportion of his normal income servicing his credit commitments. 
Whilst the credit check results did show some concerning information, UKCs loan was 
intended to refinance his three largest credit card accounts and his overdraft. So, after the 
loan had been taken, Mr B would be left with just two credit card balances (with a total 
balance of around £1,100) to repay each month. So, using the loan in that way was likely to 
place Mr Bs finances onto a far more stable footing, and would have been likely to reduce a 
significant proportion of Mr Bs credit expenditure. 
I note that UKC seems to have used minimum repayment amounts for the two card accounts 
which werent intended to be consolidated to calculate Mr Bs disposable income. Whilst this 
wouldnt enable the card accounts to be paid within a reasonable period, I can see that 
UKCs calculations suggested that Mr B would have enough disposable income to make 
higher payments to his card accounts.
 
Mr B said that it shouldnt be assumed that he wasnt in financial hardship or that he didnt 
have hidden costs. He was severally depressed and drinking and owed money to friends. He 
also spent money on gambling. 
I appreciate that Mr B says his financial situation was far worse than my above assessment  
might suggest. But that wasnt something he told UKC about when he applied for the loan. 
Nor was it something that I think should have been identified from the results of the 
proportionate checks. 
With regard to the money which Id said he appeared to be saving, he needed to access that 
money to meet his expenses. He provided a bank statement to show this. 
I note that Mr B said he was using his savings for expenses and provided a bank statement 
to show this. Mr B hadnt told UKC that he was using his savings for expenses and I dont 
think it was unreasonable for UKC to rely on what Mr B had told it about his savings. 
Mr B had previously provided the statement he supplied with his comments to this Service. 
Id reviewed it and referred to it in my provisional decision. Mr B said he was dependent on his overdraft.
As Id said above, I can see that Mr Bs current account was overdrawn briefly for four days 
between 14 July 2016 and the loan application in mid- August 2016. But overall, I didnt think 
the account was showing significant signs of financial distress and was generally relatively 
well managed with transfers being made from other accounts or cash deposited to prevent 
the account going into overdraft. I also think in Mr Bs circumstances it might not have been 
unreasonable for UKC to think that some of Mr Bs discretionary expenditure might cease 
when his finances had been stabilised by taking the consolidation loan.
He is working with a debt charity to help with his financial matters.
I can see that Mr B appears to be facing problems repaying his debt and he is working with a 
debt charity. If appropriate, I would encourage him to discuss his circumstances with UKC to 
find a mutually agreeable and affordable repayment arrangement. And I would remind UKC 
of its responsibility to treat Mr B positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
After carefully considering what Mr B has said, I dont consider that the information Mr B has 
provided should lead me to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
It follows that Im not upholding his complaint. 
I appreciate this is a disappointing outcome for Mr B but hope setting out the reasons as Ive 
done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman