DRN-1022833
The complaint
Mr D says HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) unfairly closed his bank accounts and 
hasnt explained why it did so. He wants HSBC to pay him compensation for the trouble and 
upset the closure of his accounts caused. And explain why it closed the accounts.
What happened
In March 2018, HSBC carried out a review of Mr Ds accounts. Following the review HSBC  
decided to close Mr Ds accounts. And gave him two months notice to make alternative  
banking arrangements.
Mr D complained to HSBC and said hed been a loyal customer of the bank for 28 years. He 
said HSBCs behaviour was unreasonable, disrespectful and very upsetting for both him and 
his wife. HSBC said it had acted in accordance with the terms and conditions when it closed 
the accounts. Mr D wasnt happy with this response. He wants HSBC to provide the reasons 
it decided to close his accounts.
An investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint. He said HSBC hadnt done anything wrong when 
it closed Mr Ds accounts. Mr D disagreed. He still wants to know why his accounts were 
closed. As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator. And Ill will explain why.
I fully understand Mr D is upset that HSBC has closed his accounts. He says hes been a 
loyal customer of the bank for many years and feels HSBC has acted unreasonably.
HSBC has provided me with a copy of its letter dated 29 August 2018. This says it has 
decided that HSBC was no longer going to provide banking facilities. And that Mr D needed 
to make alternative arrangements within 60 days.
I appreciate the impact this had for Mr D and his wife. But Im afraid that HSBC has acted 
within the terms and conditions of the accounts. It was entitled to close the accounts having 
given Mr D 60 days notice. And it wasnt required to give Mr D a reason, as much as he 
would like to know. So, I cant say HSBC has done anything wrong by not providing this 
information to him. 
In summary, I appreciate that the closure of the accounts has caused Mr D inconvenience 
and upset. But the bank can make commercial decisions about who it offers banking 
services to. They cannot unfairly discriminate against a customer. But they can say they no 
longer wish to do business with individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial 
freedom to decide who they want to contract with. And Im satisfied that HSBC has exercised its commercial decision legitimately when it decided to close Mr Ds accounts. So, I cannot 
fairly and reasonably say its done anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman