DRN-3398174
The complaint
Mr B is complaining that he wasnt made aware that he was taking out a fixed sum loan 
agreement (loan) with 3J Finance Limited (3J) to fund an online education course for his 
children with a supplier that I will call E. Hes also unhappy he wasnt allowed to cancel it. 
What happened
Mr B says he received a flyer from E advertising an online educational course. He was keen 
to arrange some additional tutoring for his children, so he contacted E to enquire about it. In 
March 2018 one of Es representatives visited Mr B at his home, following which he entered 
his children onto a course, which cost £6,721. He entered into a four-year finance agreement 
with 3J to pay for it.
Around two years later, Mr B tried to cancel the course, but he was told he wasnt entitled to 
do so. Mr B complained to 3J  as the finance provider  as he says he was told he could 
cancel at any time if his circumstances changed. He also was unhappy with the quality of the 
course as he says he was told it would mirror the national curriculum, but it didnt do so.
3J responded to say Mr B signed the finance agreement, so it was satisfied he was 
reasonably aware he was taking out a finance agreement. It also said the paperwork he 
signed set out the terms and cancellation rights.
Our investigator upheld the complaint as she was satisfied Mr B had been given misleading 
information about whether he could cancel the agreement or not. She said shed found 
Mr Bs testimony plausible and persuasive. She acknowledged the paperwork set out Mr B 
was entering into a finance agreement and what the terms of the contract were. But she 
didnt think Mr B was given an opportunity to review the information before he entered into 
the contract.
The investigator noted that the paperwork had an automatic signature. She also noted the 
date stamp for the signatures showed they were all ticked at the same time. So she thought 
it was most likely that Mr Bs had electronically ticked boxes to take out the contract, but she 
didnt think E would have given him an opportunity to review the documents before doing so.
The investigator was satisfied E had misled Mr B into entering into the finance agreement. 
She was also persuaded the salesman had told Mr B he could cancel the contract at any 
time. And she didnt think Mr B would have entered into the contract had he known it was to 
run for four years.
So the investigator thought 3J should cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to 
pay. But she thought it could retain what Mr B had paid up to August 2020  when his 
children stopped using the course. She also said 3J should remove any adverse markers 
from Mr Bs credit file.
3J didnt respond to the investigators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I shall now explain why.
Mr B paid for the course through a fixed sum loan agreement. Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 sets out that in certain circumstances, as the finance provider, 3J is jointly 
liable for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  E. Im satisfied those 
circumstances apply here.
Further to this, section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 has the effect of making E the 
agent of 3J during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr B entering into the loan 
agreement, starting from when he was first approached by E. But essentially, this means 3J 
is responsible for the acts or omissions of E in relation to the sale of the loan to Mr B. In 
other words, 3J has to stand behind the things E said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the 
sales process.
Mr B is unhappy he wasnt allowed to cancel the course when his financial circumstances 
changed. He says he was told by the salesman he could cancel at any time and he says he 
was misled into entering into the course and the finance agreement.
Under the terms of the finance, Mr B had the right to withdraw from it within 14 days, but 
after that it was a non-cancellable contract. Mr B doesnt dispute the contract says this, but 
he says he was told he could cancel it at any time. He says he wouldnt have entered into 
the course had he known hed have to continue to pay for it for four years. He also says he 
didnt know he was entering into a finance agreement. So I think the key issues I have to 
think about is whether the course and finance agreement were misrepresented to him.
I note 3J say the primary focus should be on the paperwork Mr B signed. I agree that we 
must take the paperwork into consideration  particularly in assessing whether theres a 
breach of contract or not. But I also need to take into account the salesmans responsibilities 
to provide clear information to enable Mr B to make an informed choice before he agreed to 
enter into the course. And I dont think the finance agreement is necessarily always an 
accurate description of the conversations that were had before the contract started.
In arranging the loan between Mr B and 3J, E was acting as a credit broker. The Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit broker to do and it 
does so in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). As the lender, these regulations and 
guidance dont apply to 3J directly. But, I think E was acting on 3Js behalf in arranging the 
finance agreement. So it is something I need to think about in this decision.
CONC 4.2.5 R requires brokers to provide what is described as adequate explanations, 
which include explanations of the following things:
(a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided under the 
agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
(b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the amount can be 
determined, in total under the agreement;
(c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would have a 
significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the customer is unlikely to 
foresee; 
(d) the principal consequences for the customer arising from a failure to make payments 
under the agreement at the times required by the agreement including, where applicable and depending upon the type and amount of credit and the circumstances of the 
customer:
(i) the total cost of the debt growing;
(ii) incurring any default charges or interest for late or missed payment or under-payment;
(iii) impaired credit rating and its effect on future access to or cost of credit;
(iv) legal proceedings, including reference to charging orders (or, in Scotland, inhibitions), 
and to the associated costs of such proceedings;
(v) repossession of the customer's home or other property; and
(vi) where an article is taken in pawn, that the article might be sold, if not redeemed; and
(e) the effect of the exercise of any right to withdraw from the agreement and how and 
when this right may be exercised.
CONC 4.8.2 R refers back to CONC 4.2.5 R and states:
A firm must not unfairly encourage, incentivise or induce a customer to enter into a 
regulated credit agreement quickly without allowing the customer time to consider the 
precontract information under section 55 of the CCA and the explanations provided under 
CONC 4.2.5 R.
CONC 2.5.3 R sets out more general expectations from the FCA as to how a credit broker 
should conduct itself, explaining that a broker must: 
(2) take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that a product it wishes to recommend to a 
customer is not unsuitable for the customer's needs and circumstances;
(3) advise a customer to read, and allow the customer sufficient opportunity to consider, the 
terms and conditions of a credit agreement or consumer hire agreement before entering 
into it;
The FCA also sets out more general principles which it expects financial firms (including E 
and 3J) to follow, and there are two which are of particular relevance here:
6 Customers' interests
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
7 Communications with clients
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
Having set out the relevant regulatory background, Ive also thought about how E sold the 
product Mr B purchased. I think its likely that the nature of this product and the way it was 
sold is likely to have influenced Mr Bs assumptions about how he was going to be paying for 
it.
E marketed the programme as an affordable, online alternative to private English and Maths 
tuition for a child. I think parents will typically pay for private tuition by the hour, although 
tutors may sometimes offer discounts for bulk-bookings. There are a number of online-based 
services available. But in my experience, and based on my further research, these are often 
offered on a subscription basis ranging from one month up to a year. E itself appeared, 
based on statements on its website and on other documents its provided us, to have offered 
a monthly subscription or pay as you go service as an alternative to the Lifetime Licence 
model that it sold to Mr B. 
From what Ive seen, the Lifetime Licence model appears to operate differently as the 
applicant has to make a single large upfront payment and this gives the child access Es 
programme for the duration of their schooling up to GCSE. Due to the substantial size of 
payment required, the applicant often had to take out a loan to cover it, and these loans are 
not cancellable. So this ultimately means that, once a person has signed up for the 
programme and the loan, they cant cancel and are committed to repaying the loan after 14 
days have passed. This seems to me to be an unusual model to adopt for a childs tuition 
due to its lack of flexibility. I dont think its uncommon for children to change tutors for a 
variety of reasons. So I think most parents are likely to value flexibility when considering 
either face to face or online tuition. 
Bearing all of the above in mind I think, in general, when a parent asks to learn more about 
the programme, they would assume that it was being offered on a subscription basis. I think 
its unlikely they would think they were going to be signing up for a long-term commitment 
paid for, up front, by a loan. Because E was offering a very different proposition with long-
term financial implications, I think it needed to make this very clear.
I think the way Mr B first became aware of E is also important. Mr B learnt about E from 
leaflet his children were given by their school from E to take home. This appears to have 
been a common practice of E so I dont doubt this happened. Schools are trusted public 
institutions, and Mr Bs childrens school introduced him to E. I think this implicit 
endorsement or recommendation would have made him more likely to trust what he was told 
during the later sales process.
In thinking about this case, Ive taken Mr Bs testimony into account and, in particular, 
whether Im persuaded by what hes told us given what subsequently happened and what 
we know about the product he ultimately bought.
Weve spoken to Mr B to understand why he enquired about the course in the first place. I 
understand Mr B had recently relocated back to England from abroad and was looking to 
provide some additional support while they caught up. Im persuaded that Mr B would have 
wanted to have the option to cancel the contract once he was satisfied his children had 
caught up with what theyd missed. 
So, on balance, I think its most likely he did enquire whether he could cancel the course if 
he wanted to do. And I dont think its likely he would have entered into a four-year contract, 
unless he was told he could cancel it.
Ive considered 3Js comments that Mr B signed the agreement. But I think the evidence 
here supports Mr Bs assertions he was only asked to tick a box on a tablet. I can see Mr B 
electronically signed both the finance agreement, the enrolment application, the terms and 
conditions and the affordability declaration. But I can also see that he signed them all at 
19:21. I dont think its likely he could have signed them separately at precisely the same 
time  I think its likely there would have been a slight delay if hes been asked to sign them 
separately. So I think its most likely he ticked separate boxes to electronically sign the 
documents. And Im not persuaded he would have been given a copy of the agreement to 
review before he signed them.
I note 3J has said Mr B was given an opportunity to review the finance agreement before he 
ticked the box to enter into the agreement. But I havent seen anything to support this. I dont 
disagree with 3J that it was Mr Bs responsibility to understand what he was entering into. 
But, at the same time, CONC particularly sets out that the salesman had a duty to ensure he 
had enough information about the credit agreement  as I set out above  and about the finance in respect to Es responsibility as a credit broker before he agreed to enter into the 
course and finance agreement.
Mr B has said throughout he thought he was paying monthly for the course. Given what I 
know about what Mr B wanted to use the training for, Im not persuaded he would have 
entered into the course and agreement if hed know it was a four-year commitment. I think 
Mr B has been consistent in what hes told us about what happened. And, Ive ultimately 
found his testimony to be plausible and persuasive.
Ive seen some of the training material provided by E to its salespeople, which I understand 
was current at the point Mr B entered into the finance agreement. When covering how to 
explain the financial aspects of the sale, E doesnt refer to the word loan anywhere in these 
training materials. Instead, I think the focus seems to have been on setting an affordable 
monthly payment and, it seems to me, the wording is fashioned in such a way as to avoid 
making the arrangement sound like a loan.
So taking everything into consideration, I dont think the salesman did explain everything to 
Mr B as clearly as he should have done. And I think Mr B has lost out as a result of whats 
happened.
That said, Mr B has had a benefit from the course because his children did use it for around 
two years and had completed a reasonable proportion of it. So I think its fair he pays for 
some of the amount payable. I understand Mr Bs children stopped using the course around 
August 2020.
I note Mr B has raised concerns about the quality of the course  in particular that the tutors 
werent regularly available and that it didnt mirror the national curriculum. But I havent seen 
enough to show that his children didnt receive the service Mr B was told theyd receive or 
that the service wasnt provided with reasonable care and skill. So I still think its fair he pays 
for the time his children used the course.
Taking everything into account, I think the fairest way to resolve this complaint is that 3J 
waives the outstanding balance on the finance agreement. And it can retain the payments 
Mr B has made up to August 2020 to reflect the usage his children has had from the course. 
But I think it should refund any payments hes made since then. As I dont think Mr B would 
have entered into this finance agreement had he been given sufficient information at the 
outset, I dont think it fair that it continues to appear on his credit file. So I think 3J should 
remove any record of the agreement from Mr Bs credit file  including any adverse markers.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and I 
require 3J Finance Limited to do the following:
1. Cancel the finance agreement with nothing further to pay;
2. Remove any record of the agreement from Mr Bs credit file  including any adverse 
markers;
3. Refund any payments Mr B has made towards the finance since August 2020. It should 
pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date he paid them until he gets them 
back.*
* If 3J thinks that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman