DRN-3890071
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
trading as Scottish Provident have declined Mr Cs claim and cancelled their life and critical 
illness policy.
What happened
Mr C submitted a claim in 2021 under their joint policy for total and permanent disability 
benefit. The policy was taken out in 2006 through a financial adviser. Scottish Provident 
declined the claim and cancelled the policy. It said that Mr C had answered the following 
questions incorrectly:
Do you currently have or have you ever had any of the following: 
e - any other disorder of the central nervous system (the brain, spinal cord and nerves) not 
already mentioned
Have any of your parents, brothers or sisters ever had any of the following medical 
conditions before they reached age 60?...
k - muscular dystrophy
Mr C answered no to these questions.
Scottish Provident said that Mr C should have answered yes because he had 
beendiagnosed with spinal muscular atrophy and had a family history of the disease.
Our investigator was satisfied that had the questions been answered correctly critical illness 
cover would have been declined but life cover may have been offered. Accordingly she 
recommended that Scottish Provident calculate how much the premiums would have been 
for life cover only and if Mr C and Mrs C wanted to take this cover they would need to paythe 
amount back to Scottish Provident. She also felt that compensation was due to Mr C and 
Mrs C in the sum of £300 for the distress caused by having their policy voided completely.
Mr C and Mrs C didnt accept this. In summary they said that the family history 
questionwasnt a reason given by Scottish Provident for declining the claim. They also felt 
that critical illness cover would have been provided as positive answers had been given in 
response to the questions about heart attack and cancer  also degenerative diseases. They 
felt Scottish Provident should have requested medical records at the time of application. Mr 
C and Mrs C indicated that they didnt want life cover to be re-instated with Scottish 
Provident and they felt that the £300 recommended in compensation was not enough to 
cover the stress and anxiety that the situation had caused.
Scottish Provident subsequently confirmed with underwriting evidence that life coverwouldnt 
have been offered to Mr C, and because of the misrepresentation they werent obliged to 
offer it to Mrs C.
I issued a provisional decision on 15 December 2022. I explained that I was not minded to 
uphold the complaint. I said as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point 
made by the parties. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find 
are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ihavent 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reachwhat I 
think is the right outcome.
I note that Mr C and Mrs C have posed several questions to our investigator. Our role is to 
resolve disputes and we cannot give advice. I hope that my decision will assist in answering 
some of the queries Mr C and Mrs C had, but it may be that they still have some questions. I 
regret that they will need to take independent advice if this is the case. I recognise that Mr 
Cand Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision, but Im not minded to uphold this 
complaint. Ill explain why.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. The relevant 
law in this case is the Marine Insurance Act 1906. This required Mr C and Mrs C to act with 
utmost good faith when applying for the policy and to tell Scottish Provident about anything 
that would be material to it. If they didnt provide the correct information then, provided 
Scottish Provident would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the correct 
information had been provided, Scottish Provident would be entitled to avoid their policy.
When assessing the claim Scottish Provident needed to follow the good industry practice set 
out in the ABI Code of Practice  Managing Claims for Individual and Group Life, Critical 
Illness and Income Protection Insurance Products September 2019 (the code).
With regard to the first question, Scottish Provident believe Mr C answered incorrectly 
because he did have a disorder of the central nervous system (the brain, spinal cord and 
nerves) not already mentioned. It is clear that he did, and that he had known about his 
condition since childhood. However what is relevant here is whether he was aware that his 
condition was a disorder of the central nervous system as defined when he took the policy 
out. Mr C says although he knew he had muscular dystrophy but it was only later that his 
condition was named as SMA  spinal muscular atrophy. So he wasnt aware it was a 
disorder that the insurer was asking about.
But even if I was to accept this was so, Im minded to find that he should have answered the 
question about his familys history of muscular dystrophy positively as he was aware of 
hisfamily history of the disease and it was apparent that this was material to Scottish 
Provident. Had he done so Im satisfied that its underwriters would have requested a medical 
report following which Mr C wouldnt have been offered any cover. This being so Im not 
minded to conclude that Scottish Provident have treated him unfairly by declining his claim 
and cancelling his policy. As Im minded to find that this question was answered incorrectly, 
and it was a question material to the risk proposed, Scottish Provident were not obliged to 
offer terms to Mrs C either.
For completeness I would add that Scottish Provident was entitled to rely on the answers 
given on the application form and wasnt obliged to require a medical report at that stage.I do accept that Scottish Provident didnt mention the family history question in its claim 
decline letter to Mr C. However, although I can see that this is disappointing for Mr C and 
Mrs C, it doesnt mean that it is not entitled to rely on it now.
As life cover wouldnt have been offered to Mr and Mrs C, Im not minded to say that Scottish 
Provident should pay them compensation for the worry of being without this cover.
Finally I note Mr C and Mrs Cs point about cover for other types of degenerative illness 
Scottish Provident offers. It is for Scottish Provident to decide what cover it will provide, that 
is a commercial decision with which this service cant interfere. However Im satisfied by the 
underwriting evidence Ive seen that cover wouldnt have been offered to Mr C or to 
someone with his family and medical history.
I invited both parties to respond with any further evidence or comments.
Scottish Provident didnt have anything further to add.
Mr C and Mrs C made the point that Scottish Provident cancelled their policy and returned 
their premium based on one question only. And they felt that the answer they gave to that 
question was correct  something with which our investigator had agreed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not persuaded to change my provisional findings and I adopt them 
here. Mr C and Mrs Cs representation is not new  I addressed this in my provisional 
decision. I said:
I do accept that Scottish Provident didnt mention the family history question in its claim 
decline letter to Mr C. However, although I can see that this is disappointing for Mr C and 
Mrs C, it doesnt mean that it is not entitled to rely on it now.
It was for this reason I didnt need to make a finding on whether there had been a 
misrepresentation regarding the negative answer to question e  as I was satisfied that 
there was a clear misrepresentation regarding the family history. This alone was enough for 
Scottish Provident to cancel the policy  notwithstanding it didnt mention it in its letter of 1 
November 2021.
In all the circumstances I dont find Mr C and Mrs C have been treated unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman