DRN-3906789
The complaint
Mr C complains about the amount Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited reduced his No 
Claims Discount (NCD) following a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wanted his NCD 
stepped back by two years. 
What happened
Mr C made a fault claim on his policy and Markerstudy reduced his NCD from 13 years to 3. 
It said this was in keeping with the policys terms and conditions. Mr C said if this had been 
brought to his attention, then he would have bought NCD protection. He thought the term 
was hidden at the back of the policy booklet. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
reduction made by Markerstudy was unusual and wasnt sufficiently brought to Mr Cs 
attention when he bought the policy. So he thought it was unfair for Markerstudy to impose it. 
He thought Markerstudy should either reduce Mr Cs NCD to seven years, or retrospectively 
apply NCD protection and charge Mr C for the resulting increase in premium. 
Markerstudy replied with examples of other insurers NCD step backs. It said the index of the 
policy booklet directed Mr C to the NCD section. So it didnt agree this was hidden. And it 
said Mr C could have bought NCD protection. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Markerstudy relied on the policys term and condition that stated that when a policyholder 
has nine or more years of NCD, this will be reduced to three years, if the NCD is unprotected 
and the claim has been settled as fault.
I think this is an unusual term and condition in motor insurance policies. This is because 
most insurers will reduce NCD by two years in the event of a fault claim. Markerstudy 
provided examples of other insurers step back procedures. But I can see that in each 
example, where the consumer has the maximum NCD allowed, the step back for one claim 
is always two years. Markerstudys maximum NCD allowed is nine years. So, to be 
consistent with industry standards, this should be reduced back to seven years in the case of 
one claim.
And so I think Markerstudys term is significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the 
policy wording and in the summary or Key Facts document. 
But it isnt. The term is on page 28 of the policy booklet, but it isnt in the other policy 
documents. I dont think its fair for Markerstudy to rely on such a significant term hidden in 
the policys small print. Also, I cant see that Mr C was made aware of Markerstudys step 
back process when he bought the policy. And I think that if he had then he would have either 
bought NCD protection of chosen a different policy. 
So I think its fair and reasonable for Markerstudy to either reduce Mr Cs NCD entitlement to 
seven years (in keeping with its maximum of nine years being recognised), or to apply NCD 
protection retrospectively to the policy and charge Mr C for the resulting increase in 
premium. 
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to either:
1. Reduce Mr Cs NCD entitlement to seven years (in keeping with its maximum of nine 
years being recognised); or 
2. Apply NCD protection retrospectively to the policy and charge Mr C for the resulting 
increase in premium. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman