DRN-3463470
The complaint
Mr F complains that Lowell Financial Ltd has refused to provide evidence its entitled to 
collect a debt in his name. Mr F also complains that Lowell harassed him for payment. 
What happened
In September 2020 Lowell acquired a debt in Mr Fs name from the original lender (V). 
Lowell sent Mr F a notice of assignment to confirm the new arrangements and went on to 
contact him to request payments. 
Mr F asked Lowell to provide evidence it was entitled to collect the debt. Mr F asked for a 
copy of the deed of assignment in addition to other supporting documentation. 
Lowell sent Mr F documents from V including the original credit agreement and statements. 
Lowell didnt agree to send Mr F a copy of the deed of assignment. Mr F complained and 
Lowell sent him a final response on 22 June 2021 by email. The final response confirmed 
the business had provided evidence to show it had acquired a credit card debt in Mr Fs 
name and didnt agree it had harassed him. Lowells final response gave Mr F six months to 
refer his complaint to this service. 
Lowell continued to contact Mr F about the debt and asked for payments. Mr F complained 
again and Lowell sent him a final response on 15 December 2021. The final response 
reiterated its previous position and didnt agree Lowell had harassed Mr F for payment. 
Mr F referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They said 
Mr F had waited too long to refer his complaint to us which meant we could only consider 
issues that occurred after the 22 June 2021 final response was sent to him. The investigator 
didnt agree that Lowell had harassed Mr F from June 2021 onwards. Mr F asked to appeal 
so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recently issued a decision explaining why the Financial Ombudsman Service could only 
look at the events Mr F has complained about that occurred after 22 June 2021. This is a 
follow up decision that covers the remaining issues that fall within the scope of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Mr F complains Lowell has harassed him for payment due to the nature of its contact. 
Lowells provided evidence to show the contact its made with Mr F from 22 June 2021 
onwards. Whilst I can see Lowell has sent multiple emails and some letters to Mr F I havent 
been persuaded that amounts to harassment. Ultimately, Lowell is seeking to collect a debt 
in Mr Fs name so Im satisfied it has a legitimate reason to contact him. 
I dont agree that the level of contact was unreasonable. On each occasion there appears to 
have been at least four days between attempts to contact Mr F. I think its reasonable to note 
Lowell says Mr F hasnt engaged so its continued to contact him to request repayment. Im 
satisfied thats fair in the circumstances. 
Mr F asked Lowell to contact him by email and Im satisfied its tried to do that as far as 
possible. Several letters have also been sent to Mr F but I think that reflects Lowells 
unsuccessful attempts to engage with Mr F. I havent been persuaded that Lowell acted 
unfairly when it wrote to Mr F. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr F but as Im satisfied Lowell dealt with his complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to do anything else.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman