DRN-3615986
The complaint
Mr B complains that Citibank UK Limited wont go back to the way it used to authenticate 
him.
What happened
Mr B says he feels hes been forced to open an account elsewhere and is unhappy 
with the inconvenience of having to transfer money into an alternative account in 
order to make payments online. Mr B says he has an older mobile phone which 
cannot download Citibanks mobile banking app, nor access the link to authenticate 
himself online.
Citibank says it made changes to the way it authenticates its customers in order to 
implement whats known as strong customer authentication (SCA) in line with the 
relevant rules and regulations. It says an alternative is for Mr B to make a transfer 
and contact the call centre for assistance. But it says it cant disable the additional 
security step it implemented for online payments. It didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator considered the complaint 
and concluded it should be upheld. They said Citibank should offer Mr B a viable 
alternative so that he can authenticate himself for online payments. And they said 
Citibank should pay Mr B £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Citibank didnt respond to our investigators findings, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to make a final decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has explained its expectations of firms when 
it comes to implementing SCA. The FCA says it expects firms to develop SCA 
solutions that work for all groups of consumers. This means that firms may need to 
provide several different methods of authentication for their customers. Significantly, 
and in the circumstances of this case, the FCA has said that this includes methods 
that do not rely on mobile phones to cater for consumers who will not have or wont 
want to use a mobile phone. 
In this case, Citibank hasnt worked with Mr B on a solution to his problem. The 
alternative its proposed isnt an online payment, which is what Mr B wants to do. And 
it isnt in line with the FCAs expectations which say that firms need to provide 
several different methods of authenticating customers so they can use online banking 
or make online payments, rather than providing them with an alternative to online 
banking or online payments. And that these methods should be viable ones too. So, I 
find it has treated Mr B unfairly here. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint about Citibank UK Limited. In order to put 
things right for Mr B, Citibank UK Limited must:
Offer Mr B a viable alternative so he can authenticate himself for online payments.
Pay Mr B £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman