DRN-3211287
The complaint
Ms P is unhappy with how FCE Bank Plc trading as Ford Credit dealt with the voluntary 
termination of her hire purchase agreement with them. 
Ms P is being represented in this complaint by Mr W. However, for ease of reference, my 
decision will only refer to Ms P.
What happened
In October 2017 Ms P was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
FCE. The agreement was for £8,250 over 37 months, with an initial payment of £193.93, 35 
monthly payments of £186.93, and a final optional payment of £3,398.42 if she wanted to 
keep the car. 
On 8 September 2018 Ms P wrote to FCE, asking to voluntarily terminate (VT) the 
agreement. In making this request, Ms P said that she couldnt afford any further payments 
or afford to enter into another agreement. At the time, Ms P hadnt paid the minimum 50% of 
all payments due under the agreement that wouldve allowed her to VT the agreement with 
nothing further to pay.
FCE told Ms P that she still owed £2,441.93 under the agreement, and they arranged to 
collect the car. After collecting the car, FCE told Ms P that she also owed them an additional 
£1,070.35 for exceeding the mileage allowable under the agreement. The car was sold at 
auction in November 2018, and this reduced Ms Ps liability to £1,584.63.
Ms P complained to FCE that theyd accepted her terms for VT  that she couldnt afford to 
make any more payments or enter into a new agreement  so she didnt owe them any 
money. She felt that, by accepting her terms, FCE had allowed her to walk away with 
nothing more to pay. FCE didnt agree with this. And, while they subsequently waived the 
excess mileage charge, they said that Ms P still owed them the shortfall under the 
agreement.
Ms P wasnt happy with FCEs response and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that the agreement Ms P signed was clear that she would need to pay 
at least 50% owing under the agreement, before she could VT with nothing more to pay. And 
Ms P hadnt paid this. The investigator also said that the agreement didnt give either party 
the right to vary the terms, so he didnt think that Ms P saying she couldnt afford any further 
payments or to enter into another agreement, meant that she didnt have to pay anything 
more. So, he thought FCE had acted reasonably by asking Ms P to pay the shortfall.
Ms P didnt agree with the investigator. She said that she made her position clear when she 
asked to VT the agreement, and by not challenging this, FCE accepted it. She said that FCE 
shouldve refused to collect the car if they didnt agree with her terms. So under contractual 
law, FCE accepted [Ms Ps] financial position, therefore, once the car was collected, the 
agreement came to an end.
Because Ms P didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Ms P was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the agreement Ms P signed with FCE. Under the heading 
TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS, the agreement says you have the right to end this 
agreement. To do so you should write to the person you make your payments to. They will 
be entitled to the return of the goods and to half the total amount payable under this 
agreement, that is £5,068.95 (five thousand sixty eight pounds and ninety five pence). If you 
have already paid at least this amount plus any overdue instalments, and have taken 
reasonable care of the goods, you will not have to pay any more.
It's not disputed that Ms P hadnt paid at least £5,068.95 when she requested VT, and the 
car was collected by FCE.
Ive also read the other terms of the agreement, and theres nothing that says either party 
had the right to vary the VT term (above), or that any request for variation by Ms P will be 
automatically accepted by FCE.
Ive also seen a copy of the undated, hand-written letter Ms P sent to FCE. This says that I 
wish to voluntary terminate the hire purchase agreement [number provided] with {FCE} from 
the date of the original letter sent to you on th [sic] 8th September 2018.  This letter went on 
to say, the reason of coming to this conclusion is we are no longer in a position to afford the 
payments nor can we enter into another repayment plan. Ms P concluded the letter by 
saying that if the vehicle is not collected by the 27th September 2018, it will be taken to the 
nearest [manufacturer] dealership with all car documents and keys.
As Ive said, the terms of the agreement didnt allow for either party to vary the terms of the 
agreement. But, even if they did, then Im not satisfied that this letter was an attempt to vary 
the terms of the agreement. It didnt say that, because of Ms Ps financial situation, by 
accepting VT FCE would also be accepting that theres nothing more to pay. Nor is this even 
clearly implied from the wording of the letter.
Whats more, if this was meant as an attempt to vary the terms of the agreement, than FCE 
shouldve been given the option to accept any variation. But, by clearly saying that if FCE 
didnt collect the car by a specified date, then the car would be returned regardless; this 
letter wasnt intended to give FCE any choice in accepting a variation to the VT terms, 
instead imposing a change of terms that, as said before, wasnt an option under the 
agreement. As such, Im satisfied that this letter is nothing more than a request for VT, with a 
supporting explanation as to why VT has been requested.Given this, Im also satisfied that, by collecting the car and ending the agreement, FCE 
havent waived any rights to collect any shortfall owing under the VT terms. As such, Im 
satisfied that FCE acted reasonably by pursing Ms P for any shortfall. And I wont be asking 
them to reduce or waive any money still owed by Ms P.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about FCE Bank Plc trading as 
Ford Credit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman