DRN-1954696
The complaint
Ms E complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance, wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Ms E under a hire purchase agreement with Audi Finance that 
she signed in September 2017. The price of the car was £30,925, Ms E made an advance 
payment of £4,769.42 and agreed to make 37 monthly payments of £399.49 and a final 
payment of £15,295 for the car. The total mileage limit was 31,666, with an excess mileage 
charge of 9.5p for each additional mile.
She complained to the dealer in December 2017 about an issue with the cars windows and 
doors which prevented the doors from being closed in cold weather but the actions that it 
took didnt resolve the issue. She complained to the dealer about that issue again in 
February 2018 and May 2019 but the issue continued so she complained to Audi Finance 
and asked to voluntarily terminate the agreement.
It upheld her complaint about the car and said that if she would like to end the agreement 
and return the car it would waive the shortfall that would be due, but she would remain liable 
for any charges for damage beyond fair wear and tear and excess mileage. Ms E wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld but Ms E then 
voluntarily terminated the agreement in August 2020 and paid an excess mileage charge of 
£818.46. Our investigator then recommended that Audi Finance should: refund the deposit, 
with interest; refund 20% of the payments made by Ms E for the months of November to 
February for each year of the agreement to reflect her impaired use of the car; reduce the 
charge for her additional usage by 6.67% to reflect the additional impaired use; pay her £350 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused; and record the agreement as settled on 
Ms Es credit file in November 2019.
Audi Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says, in 
summary, that: 
Ms E had fair use of the car and returned it in August 2020 with a mileage of 38,279 
which indicates that it had been fit for purpose and she was able to use it even more 
than intended when she signed the agreement so it would not be justified for it to 
refund the deposit;
it cant see evidence to suggest that Ms E has been continuously impacted for four 
months every year and she took the car to the dealer for investigation of the fault 
three times during the agreement so it doesnt agree that it should refund 20% of four 
rentals each year, but would agree to pay £100 for each of those visits; and
the agreement wasnt settled in November 2019 and it has a duty to report true and 
factual information to the credit reference agencies, so the agreement was correctly 
reported as settled in August 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Audi Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Ms E - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Ms E was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for her to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
Ms E has provided video showing the issues with the windows and doors and a 
detailed description of the difficulties that shes been caused, she complained to the 
dealer about those issues in December 2017, February 2018 and May 2019 but the 
actions taken by the dealer didnt rectify those issues;
there doesnt seem to be any dispute that there was an issue with the car and I 
consider it to be more likely than not that the issue was present when the car was 
supplied to Ms E so the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at that time;
Ms E has voluntarily terminated the agreement but I consider that Audi Finance 
should have allowed her to reject the car in November 2019 when she complained to 
it because of the issue with it, which hadnt been rectified  and if shed rejected the 
car at that time I consider that it would have been fair and reasonable for her to have 
received a refund of the advance payment that she made for the car;
so I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Audi Finance 
to refund to Ms E the advance payment that she made for the car, with interest;
Ms E was able to use the car to drive 38,279 miles between September 2017 and 
August 2020 and shes described the impact of the issues on her use of the car in 
cold weather - I agree with the investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Audi Finance to refund to Ms E 20% of the monthly payments that she made in 
November, December, January and February each year of the agreement to reflect 
her impaired use of the car;
Ms E paid £818.46 to Audi Finance for excess mileage and I agree with the 
investigator that it would be fair and reasonable for Audi Finance to refund 6.67% of 
that payment to reflect the impact of the issue with the doors and windows on her use 
of the car during that excess mileage (the 6.67% is based on the 20% reduction 
referred to above but spread over twelve, not four, months)  and 6.67% of £818.46 
is £54.59; 
I consider that its fair and reasonable for Audi Finance to keep the other payments 
that Ms E has made for the car as payment for the use that shes had from the car;
these events have clearly caused Ms E distress and inconvenience  which is 
separate to her impaired use of the car  and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Audi Finance to pay her £350 to compensate her for that distress and 
inconvenience (Im not persuaded that a higher award of compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience that Ms E has been caused is justified in these 
circumstances); andI also agree with the investigator that Ms Es agreement should have been ended in 
November 2019 so it would be fair and reasonable for Audi Finance to amend the 
information that its recorded on her credit file to show that the hire purchase 
agreement was settled in November 2019  Im not persuaded that that would be 
recording untrue or incorrect information on her credit file as I consider that the 
agreement should have been ended at that time.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Audi Finance to take the 
actions described above.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Ms Es complaint and I order Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance, to:
1. Refund to Ms E the advance payment that she made for the car.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
3. Refund to Ms E 20% of the monthly payments that she made in November, 
December, January and February in each year of the agreement to reflect her 
impaired use of the car.
4. Refund to Ms E £54.59 of the excess mileage charge that she paid.
5. Pay £350 to Ms E to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
6. Amend the information that its recorded on Ms Es credit file to show that the 
agreement was settled in November 2019.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Audi Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 2 above. Audi Finance must give Ms E a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks it for one.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman