DRN-4255807
The complaint
Miss J says Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) failed to close a claim as non-fault resulting in 
higher premiums, under her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss Js car was hit by another vehicle whilst it was parked in February 2022. A third party 
witnessed the collision. Miss J reported the damage caused by the incident to Aviva, it 
instigated a claimed against the third-partys insurer (TPI). 
Miss J initially paid her policy excess fee for £150. Using her motor legal cover with Aviva 
this was paid back to her by the third-party insurer. Miss J says the third-party insurer has 
accepted liability for the claim. 
Miss J doesnt think its fair that the claim remains open. She says it should be closed by 
Aviva and the third-party should be recorded as at fault. She says her insurance premium 
has increased because the claim remains open. Miss J has a protected no-claims bonus and 
says this should mean there is no increase in her premium. 
In its final complaint response Aviva says it has to recover the cost of the claim before it can 
be closed. It says this is irrespective of whether the third-party admits fault. It explains the 
third-party was disputing the level of damage caused to Miss Js car, and the repair costs 
Aviva had put forward. It says some claims can take time to close as it has no control over 
when payment will be provided or if the third-party will accept the costs presented. 
Aviva says it has chased the TPI regularly and issued a letter before action in March 2023. 
It says it has yet to recover its costs and so cant close the claim. It asks that Miss J contacts 
it in the event her premium increases at the next renewal, so that any necessary refund can 
be arranged. 
Miss J didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold her complaint. He was satisfied that Aviva had maintained its position throughout the 
claim that Miss J wasnt at fault. The claim remained open as the third-party disputed the 
extent of the damage and the repair costs. He says its fair that Aviva adjusts Miss Js 
premiums once its costs are recovered, and the claim closed. But he didnt think it had done 
anything wrong. 
Miss J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Miss J but I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Theres no dispute that the other driver is at fault for the collision involving Miss Js vehicle. 
The claim records show that Aviva contacted the TPI shortly after it was informed of the 
collision. I can see Miss J was in contact via a webchat in mid-February 2022. She was told 
by Avivas agent that the third-party was being pursued as being liable for the claim. 
I can see Aviva contacted the witness in early April 2022. A questionnaire was sent for 
completion. The claim notes show this was uploaded to the claim file and was being used to 
pursue the third-party insurer as liable for the repair costs. A note dated 29 June says the 
TPI had admitted liability and agreed to settle the claim. However, the claim costs hadnt 
been paid.
Aviva confirms a letter before action was sent to the TPI in March 2023. This means it was 
intended on taking the matter to court. I can see it instructed its solicitors to progress the 
matter. 
I can understand the frustration Miss J has felt that this claim has remained open for as long 
as it has. Particularly, as theres no dispute that the third-party was responsible for the 
collision. Unfortunately, in some cases, where there is a dispute over all or a part of a claim, 
they can take some time to conclude. In Miss Js case I can see Aviva contacted the TPI 
shortly after it was made aware of the incident. It held the third-party responsible and 
claimed the full cost of the repairs to be paid by the TPI. Im satisfied that it acted reasonably 
and in a timely manner.  
From the claim records I dont think Aviva treated Miss J unfairly. The third-party has 
disputed the extent of the damage caused and the cost of the repairs. Its this that has 
delayed the claim being closed. 
Aviva hasnt yet been paid for the costs resulting from this claim. Until the TPI pays the costs 
the claim will remain open. This means that there is an open claim showing against Miss J. 
This can be a consideration in any risk assessment when her renewal premium is calculated. 
I can see Miss Js premium has increased at renewal. Again, I can understand her frustration 
at this. However, when the claim is concluded Miss J can ask Aviva to provide any refund 
that is appropriate. The same applies if she decides to move to a different insurer. However, 
it isnt yet known that Aviva will be able to recover its costs in full, so the claim cant yet be 
closed. 
Ive thought about what Miss J says about her protected no-claims bonus (NCB). It may be 
helpful if I explain that where an NCB isnt protected, an insurer will reduce the number of 
years, under the policy, in the event of a claim. Miss Js NCB is protected so the number of 
years she has under her policy wasnt reduced here. But this doesnt protect the price of the 
policy. It means the discount provided by the NCB doesnt change. So, a claim can still result 
in a premium increase, irrespective of an NCB being protected. 
Having considered all of this, although Im sorry Miss Js claim has remained open for so 
long, I dont think Aviva has behaved unfairly in its handling of the matter. So, I cant 
reasonably ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 Mike Waldron
Ombudsman