DRN-2717873
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt process a currency deposit to
his account as hed requested.
What happened
Mr F visited a branch of Barclays in October 2019. He wanted to deposit a cheque for
USD33,485.81 into his account. He asked that it was negotiated  that is, credited to his
account almost immediately. The cheque was sent for collection. On 16 December 2019, his
account was credited with £24,463.01.
Mr F complained. He said he said that he told the branch he wanted a good exchange rate
for the cheque. The advisor said that it would be a negotiated rate, but it could take up to
six weeks to get paid. He said to go ahead. He worked out that at a rate of 0.79 GBP to
USD, he would get about £26,400. When the money arrived on 16 December 2019, he
received only £24,463.01. He got a letter from Barclays dated the same day - saying that the
cheque had been collected  and gave details of the amount credited to his account. He
then realised that Barclays had collected the cheque and not negotiated it  as hed
intended. The rate had got worse while the cheque was being collected. He said he received
£2,000 less than if the cheque had been negotiated.
Barclays replied in January 2020. They said the branch had explained there were two ways
to process the cheque  negotiated or collected. Mr F had requested the cheque be
processed on a negotiated basis. But it was up to Barclays how the cheque was processed 
and in this case it was sent on a collection basis. So, the exchange rate used was the one
when Mr Fs account was credited. They didnt uphold Mr Fs request to pay the difference of
£2,000.
Mr F brought his complaint to this service in January 2020. Our investigator looked at what
had happened. In January 2021, he said that it wasnt clear that Mr F wouldve got a better
rate if the cheque had been negotiated or collected. He couldnt be certain as to what was
said in the branch. He couldnt say that Barclays guaranteed they would negotiate the
cheque.
Mr F asked that his complaint be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
It may help if I set out the methods by which Barclays (and I think most banks) convert
currency cheques into pounds sterling. They are described in its terms and conditions. There
are two ways  negotiation or collection. With negotiation, customers are credited with the
value of the cheque almost immediately  and at the current exchange rate (less any
charges). Barclays must agree to do it this way - its terms and conditions say we do not
have to do this for you. The reason Barclays say this is that the cheque might be returned
unpaid and then the customers bank account would be debited with the amount  so its
only done where the bank is happy that this wouldnt cause a problem. With collection, the
cheque is sent to the foreign bank, and the money is paid into the UK bank account when its
received from that bank, and at the exchange rate which is effective at that time (less any
charges). This may be several weeks later.
Mr F has said he asked for the cheque to be negotiated and has argued this consistently.
Barclays final response dated 8 January 2020 stated: You requested the cheque to be
processed on a Negotiation basis So, while there was some confusion in the branch,
Barclays have accepted this is what Mr F wanted.
Barclays say that they decide how the cheque is processed. It says so in their terms and
conditions. In this case, they decided to send it for collection, not negotiation. The decision
as to what method to use comes down to whether Barclays are happy with the risk that the
cheque might not be paid and therefore Mr F might be debited with the amount  in other
words, was Mr F good for the money if that happened. That was a matter for Barclays to
decide  but looking at Mr Fs savings account - it held balances of over £5,000 before the
cheque was credited  and he says hes been a customer of Barclays since 1981. So, I cant
see why it was sent for collection.
And I cant see that Mr F was advised that the cheque was to be sent for collection  either
in the branch or in writing. If Barclays decided to send it for collection it wouldve made
sense to advise Mr F. Nor have I seen a form of authority signed by Mr F  agreeing to what
was to happen. If either of these existed, it would have been clear to Mr F which method was
to be used  but they dont.
Ive seen the cheque collection and negotiation form dated 29 October 2019. This is
initialled in the box alongside currency to sterling negotiation  so at the time, it appears
the instructions at the branch were to negotiate. But, there is also a cross next to currency
to sterling collection and a stamp which says coll only. So, the evidence is unclear.
So, we have conflicting evidence here. Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear
or contradictory (as some of it is here) I must base my decision on the balance of
probabilities. That is  whats more likely than not to have happened in all of the
circumstances here, based on the available evidence. This is a finely balanced case, with
valid arguments on both sides. Mr F has consistently argued his case. And while Barclays
has followed their processes here, strictly following a procedure or process can lead to an
unfair outcome for a customer in the individual circumstances of their situation. I think thats
whats happened here.
So, on balance, my provisional decision, subject to any comments that Barclays or Mr F may
have, is that Mr F wanted to have the cheque negotiated, not collected  and Barclays
understood this. Barclays have said this in their final response. Its not clear why they would 
then have sent the cheque for collection  but even accepting that they could, they didnt
advise Mr F of this, nor did he sign any authority agreeing to this. I will be asking Barclays to
pay to Mr F the difference between the amount he would have received if the cheque had
been negotiated on 26 October 2019 and the amount he received under the collection on 16
December 2019. When coming back with any comments, Id ask Barclays to provide this
information and workings please, based on Barclays exchange rates.
Mr F accepted my findings and wanted to understand how Barclays calculate the new 
amount due to him. Barclays said that their terms and conditions allowed them to decide 
whether a cheque was sent for negotiation of collection - and theyd decided to collect the 
proceeds of the cheque.
So  I now need to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Barclays said in response to my provisional decision. I accept that their 
terms and conditions do allow them to decide what to do. But in my provisional decision, Id 
concluded that on balance, Mr F had asked for the cheque to be negotiated  and had been 
told in the branch that this would be done. Also, it wasnt clear that Barclays had later 
advised Mr F that theyd decided to collect the cheque  theyd left him in the dark. So, what 
Barclays said didnt change my findings  and after discussion with them, they accepted 
them. They said they would pay the difference to Mr Fs current account.
Barclays provided us with their calculations of the difference in amounts received between 
negotiation and collection. This is based on the exchange rate on 31 October 2019  the 
third working day after receipt of the cheque  this is normal practice.
Date Cheque Rate Fee Amount 
Received 
16 Dec 2019 - 
collectionUSD 33485.81 1.3666 £40.0 £24463.01
31 Oct 2019 - 
negotiationUSD 33485.81 1.3196 None  paid in 
December £25375.73
Difference £912.72
So  Mr F should be paid £912.72 by Barclays in settlement of his complaint.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay £912.72 to Mr F by credit to his current account.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr F 
£912.72  by credit to his current account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 April 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman