DRN-2819031
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) were 
unreasonable when they applied a default to her account.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Shop Direct, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When Shop Direct contacted Miss B in November 2018 they explained that Miss B had an 
option to charge off the account rather than defaulting it. Miss B told them she didnt want 
the account defaulted as shed been hindered by defaults on her credit file in the past.
But regardless of that phone call Shop Direct chose to default the account in March when 
Miss B didnt reply to a letter they sent her. 
Shop Direct were clearly aware of Miss Bs vulnerability and had been assisting her by 
offering several repayment arrangements in the past. Theres no indication Miss B wouldnt 
have wanted a further repayment plan and indeed the evidence suggests she would have. 
And, given Miss Bs clear opposition to a default being registered I think Shop Direct should 
have made more effort to discuss the situation and a further repayment plan with Miss B 
rather than simply applying a charge off as they thought it best for her.
  
Putting things right
Shop Direct should remove the default and, if any adverse information has been reported to 
Miss Bs credit file as a result of the default being applied, they should remove that too.
Miss B has clearly been distressed by Shop Direct ignoring her request not to charge off the 
account and in those circumstances I think they should pay Miss B £150 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience shes experienced.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Shop Direct Finance 
Company Limited to:
remove the default and if any adverse information has been reported to Miss Bs 
credit file as a result of the default being applied, they should remove that too.
pay Miss B £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes 
experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman