The complai
nt 
Miss L has complained about the charges made by the broker Complete Cover Group Ltd 
(CCG) when she cancelled her car insurance policy. Her father Mr L is representing Miss L 
in her complaint.   
What happened  
Miss L renewed her car insurance policy with the broker CCG. A couple of months later she 
cancelled her policy. She was very unhappy with the charges CCG applied on cancellation.  
CCG said its charges were fair and set out in the documents sent to Miss L when she bought 
her policy.  
Mr L as
ked us to look at his daughters complaint. 
Our i
nvestigator thought CCG had acted unfairly. She didnt think CCG had made it clear 
that it would charge a commission clawback fee in the event of cancellation. She felt tha t if 
CCG had done this, Miss L most likely wouldnt have bought the policy. She recommended CCG deduct the commission clawback fee from the balance it said Miss L owed on 
cancellation.  
CCG
 didnt agree. It said it had explained its charges and followed the FCA rules and 
guidance under the Insurance Code of Business Source book(ICOBS).  
The i
nvestigator asked CCG to provide evidence to show it made Miss L aware of the 
commission charge it would make on cancellation.  
CCG
 said it was within its rights to retain a percentage of the commission, but didnt provide 
any new evidence.  
So the 
case has been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide w hats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Miss L has made a separate complaint against the insurer for the charges it made. This 
doesnt form part of my decision about CCG, so I dont intend to comment about that here.  
CCG as a bro ker, sold the policy to Miss L on a non advised basis. It also carried out the 
administration of the policy on behalf of the insurer. So it has its own Terms of Business (TOB) and charges which are separate to the insurers. We dont find this unreasonable 
provided a broker has clearly explained its charges so a customer can make an informed 
decision before buying a policy.  
DRN-1552128CCG says the following regarding cancellation:  
C
ancellations  Cancellation fees are applicable regardless of whether cancellation 
is at your request or invoked by the insurer. Any discounts offered at the inception of 
the policy will be adjusted to reflect the time on cover, as all discounts are offered 
subject to you maintaining the policy for the agreed duration.  
I 
think CCG ma de it clear that it would charge a cancellation fee after the cooling off period 
of £75 for renewing customers  so this applied to Miss L.  
How
ever, I cant see that CCG told Miss L that in addition to the cancellation fee, she would 
be charged part of the service or commission clawback charge too. We look at what is fair 
and reasonable as well as keeping in mind the relevant laws and regulation. In this case, 
Miss L couldnt have known from CCGs TOB how much the commission retention fee CCG 
would charge if she cancelled her policy. CCG told us it retained a 15% commission 
clawback fee on cancellation which its quoted as £190.97. But I dont think it was fair or reasonable for CCG to charge something that Miss L wasnt aware of before buying the 
policy.  
So I
 think CCG has been unreasonable as it wasnt clear enough in their TOB. It therefore 
follows that I dont think it was fair of CCG to charge Miss L a commission clawback fee on 
cancellation.  
CC
G reduced its cancellation fee of £75 to £25 as a goodwill gesture which I think was 
reasonable. But I dont think this is enough to put things right. So I think the fairest outcome 
is for CCG to deduct the commission fee of £190.97 from the amount it says Miss L owes.  
My f
inal decision  
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Complete Cover Group 
Limited to deduct the commission clawback fee of £190.97 from the amount it says Miss L 
owes it on cancellation.  
Under
 the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask  Miss L  to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2021. 
Geraldine Newbold  
Ombudsman  