DRN-3342072
The complaint
Mr M says Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd (AFS), is responsible for unsuitable advice he 
received to switch his Standard Life Self-invested Personal Pension (SIPP) into two SIPPs 
with Intelligent Money (IM) and Lifetime, with the funds being invested through discretionary 
fund management (DFM) arrangements. He says this has caused him financial detriment.
What happened
Mr M had received services from AFS since 2009. He says when it was dealing with his 
mothers will in 2016, he mentioned he was going to review his retirement plans. AFS said it 
could do this review for him.
Mr M said he had a heart attack in May 2016 and during his recovery he became concerned 
about whether he could return to work. He wanted to organise his financial affairs 
accordingly. He had several discussions with AFS at his home and in its office. 
Mr M already had a SIPP with Standard Life. This had been established in 2010 and had a 
transfer value of nearly £539,000. 
A fact-find of Mr Ms circumstances, objectives and risk appetite was conducted in August 
2016. At the time its recorded Mr M:
- Was 52 years old, married with no financial dependents. He was in good health 
(although this appears at odds with the heart attack hed recently suffered).
- Was managing director of an engineering company. He earned around £140,000 a 
year and received rental income of around £5,000 per annum. Household net 
monthly income was around £6,800 and outgoings about £4,800.
- Had a home valued at £300,000 and a rental property valued at £100,000. Both were 
unencumbered. He had invested £250,000 in the Helix Investment Bond and was 
about to place £250,000 into a Prudential Investment Bond. He had no liabilities.
- Mr M was planning to retire between age 55 and 65. He was receiving employer 
pension contributions of around £40,000 a year. And he wanted a monthly income in 
retirement of £4,000-£5,000.
On 23 August 2016, AFS issued a suitability report to Mr M. It noted his primary objective 
was:
to create a pension fund which may be used to provide you and your dependants with a 
flexible income in retirement.
AFS recorded that Mr Ms aspiration and goal was to review his existing SIPP and that he 
felt that his fund should be managed on a more active basis to attain better returns. It 
assessed Mr M as having a balanced attitude to risk. This was defined in the following terms:
The Balanced investor may be somewhat concerned with short-term losses and may shift to 
a more stable option in the event of significant losses. The safeties of investment and return 
are typically of equal importance to the Balanced investor. What this means: If you hold the 
investment for over 5 years there is an 80% chance of getting a positive return.
In its report, AFS recommended Mr M switch his Standard Life SIPP funds into an IM SIPP. 
It said he should also make his employer contributions into this new arrangement. AFS went 
on to note:
[we] did not provide you with any advice in relation to fund selection as you are going to use 
the services of a discretionary fund manager when your money is transferred to the 
Intelligent Money SIPP.
Of its recommendation to use an IM SIPP, AFS said:
There are alternatives to SIPPs, such as a Stakeholder Pension which may have low 
charges, a low minimum contribution level and no penalties if contributions stop or funds are 
moved to a new provider. In your case, however, I am recommending this SIPP instead as it 
is more suitable in your circumstances because it offers investment choice that suits your 
attitude to risk and can be managed by a discretionary fund manager (DFM).
The fees and charges related to Mr Ms existing Standard Life SIPP for administration and 
transactions etc were not detailed in AFSs suitability letter.
For the new arrangement it noted there was an initial adviser charge of £1,000 and an 
ongoing fee of 0.25% of the fund value. The IM SIPP had an annual administration charge of 
£150 per annum. There would also be annual management charges  although no figures 
were provided. There was an annual platform fee of 0.17% and an off-platform investment 
charge of £75. There was also an investment portfolio charge of 1% per annum.
Ultimately Mr M was persuaded to accept AFSs recommendations. A signed application 
was sent to IM SIPP on the same date of its suitability report. The DFM recorded on the 
application form was Monument Global (MG) and this also showed the firm had a connection 
with Strand Capital Limited (SCL).
Mr Ms Standard Life funds were switched to the new IM SIPP on 30 August 2016. 
On 9 September 2016, AFS provided another suitability report for Mr M. This time it 
recommended setting up a Lifetime SIPP and to transfer £100,000 from his recently 
established IM SIPP. The reason for this was to be able to access a particular investment 
fund.
The Lifetime SIPP had an annual administration charge of £500 per annum and an annual 
investment portfolio charge of 1%. AFS sent the signed application to The Lifetime SIPP on 
the same date of its latest suitability report. The same DFM was recorded as the investment 
adviser.
Unfortunately, there were problems with the DFM arrangement AFS put in place for Mr M. 
So, in February 2017 it appointed Investec Wealth & Investment (IW&I) as the new DFM on 
the IM SIPP. It also requested a return of Mr Ms funds from the Lifetime SIPP into the IM 
SIPP of £100,000. The IW&I account was opened in May 2017.
On 2 May 2017 Monument Global Limiteds registration with the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) ceased. Its status at Companies House is dissolved.
On 18 May 2017 SCL entered special administration. According to Companies House, the 
last accounts filed were made up to 30 June 2016.On 30 September 2019 The Lifetime SIPP Company Limited went into liquidation. According 
to Companies House, the last accounts filed were made up to 31 January 2017.
Mr M had several concerns about what had happened to him in 2016. For example, he said 
that in recommending the switch of his pension funds into two new SIPPs with a DFM 
facility, AFS hadnt exhibited due care, skill and diligence in the advice it gave him and the 
arrangements made. He said:
What cannot be disputed is that over a period of less than 3 years, because of financial 
transactions implemented through or related to my relationship with Abbey Financial 
Services (Nl) Ltd and its directors, I have lost a significant amount of capital. I have also 
suffered the opportunity cost of not being in suitable investments for the duration of the 
period under consideration.
AFS refuted Mr Ms complaint. It maintained that the service it provided was appropriate and 
its advice suitable.
The Investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint. She thought AFSs recommendation for him to 
switch away from his Standard Life SIPP, into two new SIPPs with a DFM arrangement had 
been unsuitable. AFS disagreed with her findings. 
So, Mr Ms complaint was passed to me for review as the final stage of our process. I issued 
my provisional decision in February and am grateful to both parties for their new evidence, 
which in particular has helped to shape the appropriate redress in this case. Ill also address 
any additional arguments in this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
How does the regulatory framework inform the consideration of Mr Ms case?
The first thing I consider is the extensive regulation around transactions like those performed 
by AFS for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it 
says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). 
These include:
- Principle 2 - which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3 - which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6 - which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.- Principle 7  which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like AFS. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Further, COBS 2.1.1 R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance 
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business carried on 
for a retail client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments.
COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same things that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must obtain the necessary information regarding: 
the consumers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone has switched their pension funds, I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants or 
needs reasonable? And so, should the adviser have recommended the switch?
Each case is different, but Id expect the switch to be in Mr Ms best interests to make the 
advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made between his 
former pensions and the recommended new arrangement.
In 2009 the FCA, then the Financial Services Authority (FSA), published a checklist for 
pension switching that I think is still helpful today. It highlighted four key issues it thought 
should be focussed on:
-Charges - has the consumer been switched to a pension that is more expensive than 
their existing one(s) or a stakeholder pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include the loss of ongoing contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
Its also important to review the FCAs specific stance on advice provided about SIPPs. For 
example, in January 2013 it issued an industry alert which said:
Financial advisersunder the mistaken impressionthey do not have to consider the 
unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need 
to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect.
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a 
product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other 
wrappers), consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and 
the expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear 
to financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating ()
When considering the use of a DFM, the regulator has also made clear that amongst other 
matters, firms need to take into account issues such as:
- Likely cost: do the overall costs justify the potential for improved performance?
- Size of funds under management: once a consumer has a moderately-sized fund, 
they may benefit from a model portfolio which is rebalanced automatically by a DFM.
- Investors knowledge and experience: FCA has said the adviser needed a 
reasonable belief that the investor could understand the nature of the risks of the 
underlying investments the DFM might make.
- Level of disclosure: whether the benefits vs cost of the arrangement was explained to 
the investor in terms they were likely to (or appeared to) understand.
Its also relevant to consider whether a particular DFM was appropriate. The approach each 
firm takes to managing funds and interacting with the adviser and investor is different. So 
different DFMs might be suitable for clients in different situations.
Two factors are particularly relevant in this case.
Firstly, the conduct of proper due diligence. If an adviser relied only on prepared literature, 
weaknesses in the DFMs operations may have been overlooked. Features that an adviser 
should consider in their due diligence include:
- Variation in cost structures between DFMs - some charge per transaction they make, 
in addition to an annual charge.
- What was the DFMs typical investment philosophy (in terms of assets they 
preferred), whether this was a model portfolio or not? Would those assets be 
appropriate?
- Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it can provide an indication of the 
degree of success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt have a track record this 
would reasonably have increased the enquiries the adviser should have made.
The regulator was clear there was a positive obligation on the adviser to carry out this 
research, rather than supplying the DFM with a risk rating and hoping all will be right in the 
end. If they were recommending DFM as a solution to their clients needs, that meant they 
needed to look under the bonnet.
Secondly, how the DFM will specifically invest this investors funds. Did the adviser obtain a 
current breakdown of assets in any proposed model portfolio, and the DFMs guidelines as 
to how it manages those assets? How did the adviser ensure that its attitude to risk scale 
mapped appropriately across to the DFMs? And if the DFMs mandate wasnt sufficiently 
limited, did it agree appropriate restrictions on what it was and wasnt allowed to invest in?
If there was no specific agreement between the adviser and the DFM, how could it be sure 
that the DFM had accepted responsibility for risk-mapping the advisers score to its 
portfolios?
Did AFS meet the regulatory obligations it was bound by when advising Mr M?There are several documents relating to AFSs transaction with Mr M that are important to 
my consideration, these include the fact-finds, the suitability reports and email 
communications between the parties involved.
I dont think AFS met the requirements placed on it in this case. Ill explain why.
Mr M had a heart attack in May 2016 and during his recovery he became concerned about 
whether he could return to work. He wanted to organise his financial affairs accordingly. He 
had several discussions and meetings with an adviser from AFS.
Mr Ms prime objective was to create a pension fund which could be used to provide him and 
his dependants with a flexible income in retirement. His target income in retirement was said 
to be between £4,000-£5,000 a month. At the time, Mr M was 52 and he wanted to be able 
to retire from 55 onwards. So, its possible he only had three years until retirement.
But I cant see any evidence of modelling carried out by AFS which shows how all the advice 
it gave him in 2016, including that covered by this complaint, came together to deliver what 
he required. I think this wouldve been important to his being able to take an informed 
decision about what to do with his Standard Life SIPP.
Mr M had held his Standard Life SIPP for around six years at the point of advice in 2016. 
The information available suggests he had shares in two blue-chip companies. These were 
worth around £330,000. Given his SIPP was worth over £530,000, presumably the balance 
was held in other funds, and/or cash.
While its possible to understand that his SIPP investment strategy prior to the switch was 
flawed  he had significant exposure to equities in just two firms - neither party has 
confirmed what his other holdings at the time were. So, this risk mayve been offset by how 
the balance of his money was invested.
Nevertheless, it seems Mr M was unsatisfied with the performance of his SIPP and so 
wanted to make changes. But I havent seen any serious record of how the options open to 
him were explored. For example, if he was looking to adjust his risk exposure and improve 
performance, why not access different funds available within his existing Standard Life 
SIPP?
AFS was in a good position to have analysed, tested, challenged and advised Mr M about 
what was in his best interest for retirement planning. It knew pension pots built up over many 
years are to provide for a retirement income.
AFS recommended the switch from Mr Ms Standard Life SIPP funds into IM and Lifetime 
SIPPs, with the provision of a DFM arrangement. There are several problems with its advice.
Charges
It isnt possible to discern from AFSs suitability reports what fees and charges Mr M was 
incurring in his new SIPPs with IM and Lifetime, when compared to his Standard Life SIPP. 
And there were ambiguities in those details that were set out. For example, in its report of 23 
August 2016, one of the fees listed was an IM annual management charge  the cost wasnt 
provided, it was simply stated this would depend on the size of his pot.
Given that the recommended arrangements came with ongoing advice fees and a new DFM 
arrangement, it seems highly likely Mr Ms costs were substantially higher than what went 
before. AFS needed to have provided him with a transparent comparison of costs. And it needed to provide him with a clear rationale, based on evidence about why it was in his 
interests to incur these costs.
Presumably, the case AFS wouldve made was that his new investment approach would 
deliver significant performance improvements. But there was no analysis of what this 
improvement needed to be in order to justify the changes being made. I cant see that the 
benefits vs cost of the DFM were explained to Mr M in a meaningful way. It needed to have 
been.
Further, theres evidence on file of confusion surrounding the charging regime for Mr Ms 
new pension arrangements. In February 2017 he wrote to AFS saying:
I would like to go ahead and exit the Strand Platform and return the funds to IM. I would 
also request that the 1% up front fee deduction by Monument be returned as part of the 
process since I was not informed of this at the outset, only the 0.7% Strand Fee.
Neither of the suitability reports produced for Mr M in respect of the new SIPPs being put in 
place detailed an upfront fee of 1% to be levied by MG. Indeed, both indicated there would 
be no initial charges related to his investment portfolio.
AFS didnt provide Mr M with clear and fair information about the fees and charges 
associated with its recommendations.
Risk
In responding to my provisional decision AFS said:
 We would ask you to bear in mind that [Mr M] was/is a CEO of a large firm. He carried 
out multi-million-pound transactions on behalf of his firm and was an experienced and 
sophisticated investor who had been running his SIPP worth more than £500,000 for several 
years before 2016. He is a client who was/is very experienced in carrying out due diligence 
on transactions in many aspects of his life. He also communicated on a regular basis by 
phone and email with the DFM discussing and agreeing on investments without any referral 
to ourselves.
I note AFSs suitability letter of 23 August 2016 was a little more circumspect. At the time of 
the advice it said the following about his experience:
We discussed your understanding of financial services products, with reference to previous 
experience of advice received and products purchased, and established that you have a 
reasonable knowledge of investments, as you already have used your existing Sipp to 
purchase shares in BP and the Bank of Ireland which you have now sold.
It's clear Mr M wasnt a novice investor, but Ive not seen any evidence to suggest he was an 
experienced or sophisticated investor. Similarly, theres nothing to suggest he was 
knowledgeable about pension matters. Of course, thats why he sought professional advice 
from AFS.
Mr M understood that to gain better returns he had to take some risks. I think the risk 
assessment conducted by AFS which concluded he had a moderate or balanced appetite 
was about right. He also appeared to have some capacity for loss, given the other assets 
available to him.
Ive also reviewed MGs prospectus, which set out its investment approach as follows:Monument Global Private Client is dedicated to providing clients with ongoing risk-adjusted 
returns on their investments through a strategic long-short strategy with a focus on US 
equities, ETFs and equity derivatives.
We intend to capture alpha (profits) through absolute return and Options arbitrage 
investment strategies within the largest and most liquid US exchange traded equities and 
derivatives. Monument Global Private Client investment methodology uses various technical 
and fundamental indicators to determine market trends and mispricing within securities and 
their related derivative instruments. The fact that all positions will be within highly liquid 
instruments will allow for scalability as and when necessary.
We specialise in actively managed strategies, we primarily aim to add value by identifying 
opportunities in both undervalued assets to purchase and overvalued assets to sell. We then 
utilise equity Options for the purposes of both managing risk and enhancing returns.
Our edge is our use of Options within our strategies. We use Options for both hedging 
purposes and to increase returns. The use of Options adds another dimension to the trading 
opportunities on offer when compared to other trading instruments, affording us the 
opportunity to make money in both sideward moving and falling markets with low volatility.
I note on file there are communications from MG about how Mr Ms funds might be invested. 
These are variously between the DFM and AFS and Mr M. Ive seen references to the 
potential for moving funds into an adventurous Strand Model portfolio. Ive seen reference 
to allocating his funds equally between cautious, balanced and growth funds. And there are 
references to proposals for an in-house strategy to trade exclusively in UK equities. 
The investment approach of MG may or may not have been appropriate for Mr M. Some of 
the fund proposals on file may or may not have been suitable. The problem is that the 
suitability reports AFS produced didnt show how these approaches and options mapped to 
Mr Ms risk appetite.
Its a problem for AFS that it didnt have a handle on the investments Mr M would be making 
in his new SIPPs. It says it didnt provide him with investment advice, and that is what the 
DFM arrangement was for. But the regulator required that it took a close interest in where Mr 
Ms funds would be placed. In 2014 the regulator issued another alert on this matter, it said:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not 
suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
AFS had a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of Mr M. And to 
take reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave was appropriate. It couldnt do this 
without considering the suitability of the investments being proposed.
Ongoing fund management
I note that Mr M hadnt used a DFM arrangement previously. He says it was a concept 
introduced by AFS.
As Ive already set out, AFS needed to have conducted proper due diligence in respect of 
the DFMs it was recommending.The Investigator asked AFS to explain what due diligence it had done on GM. It provided a 
brochure which set out matters such as its investment approach. AFS said:
Although Monument Global were a comparatively new player in the DFM market in 2016 we 
had done our homework on their CEO We were aware that he had had over ten years 
experience working within the DFM world with six of those years working his way up through 
the ranks in Brewin Dolphin becoming a private client investment manager with themGiven 
this level of experience and expertise we trusted him to successfully look after Mr Ms 
portfolio.
AFS hasnt done enough to satisfy me the it acted with due care and skill in this matter. For 
example, I cant see how it considered different DFMs and options available in terms of 
investment philosophy and cost structures.
A key element of AFSs recommendation for Mr M to switch from his Standard Life SIPP 
appears to have been the expectation that the DFM investment portfolio would perform 
better than his existing plan. If that is the case then it begs the question, what was that 
expectation based upon?
MG was a new business which had traded for less than a year at the time of advice. It had 
no track record of investment performance. Whilst past performance cant be relied upon, it 
can provide an indication of the degree of success the DFM might have in future. If it didnt 
have a track record this would reasonably have increased the enquiries the adviser should 
have made.
It is not disputed that Mr M had some investment experience with a balanced attitude to risk, 
but he wasnt a sophisticated investor. Given this, I dont understand why AFS considered 
Mr Ms best option was to take his personal pension funds of over £500,000, which hed built 
up over his working life, and place these with a firm which had an approach to investment 
based on complicated financial instruments, and which had no proven record.
Its arguable an expectation of Mr M achieving better returns, especially when considering 
the substantial increased fees and charges in his new pension arrangements, was based on 
speculation. Certainly, theres an absence of rigorous analysis and insight on file to justify 
the use of MGs services.
MG ultimately failed as a business. As did the investment fund it recommended to Mr M. 
AFS might argue these matters of fact shouldnt be used in hindsight. And that he was 
afforded certain protections, such as access to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS). But I think this would be to miss the point. Had it done more effective due 
diligence I think its more likely than not it wouldnt have advised Mr Ms use of MG.
As an aside, I note in the file AFS provided this Service, in February and March 2017 the 
issue of the return of Mr Ms funds from SCL seems to have caused some debate about the 
respective responsibilities of the firms involved. For example, there are exchanges between 
AFS, Mr M and MG which shows there was confusion about which firm should be instructing 
the SIPP provider.
There shouldve been a clear contractual agreement between the firms about which would 
be responsible for what on behalf of Mr M. And Mr M shouldve been clear about what the 
respective responsibilities were  after all, he was paying a lot for the services being 
provided.
Relationship with AFS adviser (Mr Z)Finally, Mr M also complained about how a particular employee (Mr Z) at AFS interacted with 
him. He says Mr Z led him to believe it was him who was providing the advice. I can see 
from the records he was a key contact at the firm for Mr M. And I understand the point hes 
making.
AFS noted that thered been issues when it had dealt with Mr M in 2009 and 2010. So, when 
he approached it for advice in 2016 the adviser (Mr Y) spoke to Mr Z about how to handle 
the relationship. It told us:
[Mr Z] had a personal relationship of sorts with [Mr M]. We agreed that [Mr Z] would act as 
administrator on the case and deal with [Mr M] at the face-to-face meetings but on the 
understanding that I would always give any relevant advice. As I have alluded to earlier, I 
trusted [Mr Z] as an experienced person within the industry to know where his role started 
and stopped in the process. I knew that he would communicate this to the client, as he did.
The parties disagree about the role Mr Z played. I note it was Mr Y who signed all three 
suitability reports that Mr M received in 2016.
Ultimately, whether or not Mr Zs role was properly understood by Mr M, properly conducted 
by Mr Z and had proper oversight by AFS, I must consider the acts and omissions of AFS as 
a firm. And do so in the context of the complaint raised about the advice given by it for Mr M 
to switch his SIPP into a new arrangement.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint against AFS in respect of the failings Ive already set out.
In summary
In its response to my provisional decision AFS noted that Mr M had shown on numerous 
occasions he was willing to take his own investment decisions despite advice to the contrary. 
I note the example it provided about his investments in two blue-chip companies in his 
Standard Life SIPP.
Ive thought carefully about the point it makes. But I think AFS needed to have provided Mr 
M with more comprehensive retirement planning, which considered more effectively than it 
did the options available to him, with specific regard to achieving his prime objective. Had it 
done this, I think its more likely than not it wouldve recommended he remain with his 
existing SIPP provider, but utilising available funds so that his investments were consistent 
with his balanced attitude to risk.
If AFS had given Mr M appropriate advice, I think its more likely than not he wouldnt have 
gone ahead with the switch to two different SIPP providers and the DFM arrangement. I say 
this because its unusual for a lay person to seek professional advice and then go against 
the recommendations received. My view here is strengthened by his particular 
circumstances and objectives in 2016, which were an important backdrop to his decision 
making at the time.
Had AFS advised him appropriately and then hed insisted on a different course of action it 
wouldve been clear this had been against its recommendations and its unlikely it would now 
be facing a viable claim for redress.
Instead AFS proceeded to recommend an IM SIPP, without sufficient regard to the 
underlying investments. It placed too high a reliance on a DFM arrangement which Mr M had 
no experience of, and with a firm that had no track record. This arrangement itself led 
directly to the need to establish a second SIPP with Lifetime to receive a portion of his pension pot, because his IM SIPP couldnt access funds the DFM considered appropriate for 
Mr M.
I think the solution AFS recommended for Mr M was over-engineered for his requirements, 
complicated, risky (because of certain of the parties being engaged with) and expensive.
To conclude I dont think the switch of Mr Ms SIPP funds could sensibly be regarded as fair 
to him. As such I think AFS failed to meet the regulatory requirements when providing him 
with advice and making the arrangements. So, taking all the circumstances of the case into 
account, its reasonable to uphold this complaint against AFS and for it to put things right.
Putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ms case. So, he needs to be returned to the position he wouldve been in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been for the failures which I hold 
Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd responsible for. This should be the governing principle 
for AFS to follow in delivering redress.
If AFS had done everything it shouldve, I dont think Mr M wouldve switched out of his 
Standard Life SIPP into the IM and then Lifetime SIPPs, nor taken on a DFM facility. I think 
its most likely he wouldve left his pension with Standard Life, but he wouldve invested his 
funds in accordance with his balanced risk outlook.
Mr M removed AFS from servicing his pension, but his IM SIPP remains open. He is still 
receiving DFM services from Investec, but only for a portion of his fund; and the mandate it 
continues to operate for him is based on a balanced appetite for risk.
Mr M has confirmed he hasnt taken a regular income from his SIPP. And he hasnt taken 
TFC or other benefits from his pension. Hes told us that he continued to make contributions, 
so these need to be taken into account in the calculations insofar as they relate to the period 
when AFS was looking after his arrangements. Im not aware of any unusual issues with 
access to his holdings or of valuation uncertainty.
Mr M has also now confirmed that he has received payments from the FSCS in relation to 
the investment he made through the defunct Strand Capital. Hes told us that hes received 
£441,000 between May 2018 and June 2021  the value of Strand at the point of 
administration. Mr M has assessed the shortfall between the relevant capital investments 
made and compensation as around £14,000. Any evidenced shortfall should be taken into 
account in the redress AFS pays.
Mr M understands if the FSCS had made an award in respect of the issues covered by this 
decision, it would usually seek to reclaim any compensation hed received from third parties 
covering the same. Mr M cant benefit from double recovery.
However, if Mr M has received compensation from the FSCS, in addition to any 
compensation paid by AFS for the matters covered by my decision, and the FSCS didnt 
seek to recover the award hed been paid, Mr M should provide an undertaking to repay AFS 
any compensation hes received (in combination from both) over and above his total losses 
as calculated by the method Ive outlined.
I note however, Mr M has confirmed he is only seeking to recover lost investment returns 
and any shortfall in capital. Funds received via the FSCS from the Strand Capital 
Administrator have only been in respect of capital. And he is content to sign an undertaking 
setting out the situation if required by AFS.Mr M and his representative have now provided detailed information which I note AFS has 
acknowledged. But if AFS requires more detailed information, where this is reasonable 
insofar as it relates directly to matters covered by my decision and the calculation of redress, 
they will need to cooperate. Any period of days where AFS is waiting for information from Mr 
M in this regard, will not incur the relevant interest award Ive provided for in my redress 
provisions.
As well as restoring any shortfall of capital to Mr M for the relevant period, as set out already, 
the main focus of the loss calculations from here is on redressing lost investment returns, 
and the cost differential between his original pension arrangement and the new 
arrangements put in place by AFS.
Ive considered what index should be used for elements of the redress required. Mr M 
wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr M's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
Where using the index, AFS will need to compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with 
that of the index. If the fair value (what the investment wouldve been worth at the relevant 
calculation dates had it produced a return using the index) is greater than the actual value 
(the amount payable from the investment at the relevant calculation dates), there is a loss 
and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
AFS is responsible for any loss of investment returns, using the stated index, from when it 
initiated the switch of his previous arrangements, until funds were released and/or 
compensation was provided through the FSCS and there was an opportunity to invest those 
funds in accordance with the established risk mandate, or until AFS no longer had agency 
for servicing Mr Ms pension, whichever date was later.
To the sums derived from these calculations, it is fair for AFS to assume these wouldve 
enjoyed the same rate of return from the stated index for each relevant calculation end date 
until settlement. Thats because the investment returns hes due should also have been 
working for him. To be clear, this award is not related to the capital sums Mr M had control 
over that he left in cash, such as the returns from the FSCS.
Mr M has confirmed his Investec Wealth arrangement has continued to be invested in line 
with the original balanced risk mandate. So, redress proposed would simply be to 
understand the difference between the performance of the value of that element of his 
pension fund, against what wouldve been achieved against the index identified as a proxy in 
the event it had remained with Standard Life.
If however Mr M diverged from AFSs advice into a lower or higher risk portfolio of funds, 
following his departure from its agency, then any loss calculated should be from the point of 
the initial switch, until the parting of ways between the parties.
AFS should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If AFS is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable 
income. So, the total amount should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair 
amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC), so Mr M wont be 
able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's expected marginal rate in 
retirement. Here were looking at his likely position when hes fully retired and drawing out 
his pension as income  rather than what his marginal rate of tax is now while hes working.
Mr M has confirmed hes expecting to retire later this year. He and his adviser have reviewed 
his financial position and confirm he will become at basic rate tax-payer at that point. This is 
broadly consistent with the target income he confirmed during the advice process with AFS. 
So, its reasonable to work on this basis. 
The notional reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M is able to 
take TFC, the reduction should only be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Separately, Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd should refund Mr M any fees or charges paid 
on the Lifetime SIPP.
Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd should provide the details of its calculations to Mr M in a 
clear, simple format.
Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which this Service informs it that Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If AFS considers it is required by HMRC to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HMRC if appropriate.
Distress and inconvenience
In addition, Abbey Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd should pay Mr M £300 for the trouble and 
upset caused by the disruption to his retirement planning.
Further information
There is guidance on how to carry out calculations available on our website, which can be 
found by typing compensation for investment complaints into the search bar at:
www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already stated, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. I now require Abbey
Financial Services (N.I.) Ltd to put matters right in the way Ive set out. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022. Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman