DRN-4284100
The complaint
Mr C complains that Western Provident Association Limited (WPA) wont pay for a 
diagnostic test he had, simply because of where it took place.
What happened
Mr C has insurance which provides access to a range of medical services from certain
providers. In late 2022 he was experiencing back pain, so he approached WPA about
claiming for a diagnosis and (potentially) treatment. WPA agreed to cover the cost of a
meeting with a consultant and diagnostic tests. WPA and Mr C discussed by phone which
grade of hospital he could use, as his insurance didnt cover him for tests within what it
calls premium hospitals. In particular they discussed the fact that the hospital Mr C intended
to use housed both premium and non-premium services.
Mr C saw the consultant and was advised he needed a test which he booked at a reception
desk in the same building. He had the test shortly after  but when he submitted his claim
WPA said it had been done in a premium part of the hospital, and wouldnt pay for it.
Mr C complained but WPA didnt change its stance. He asked us to review his complaint. In
an effort to settle this complaint informally we asked WPA if it was prepared to pay Mr C the
amount it would have honoured if hed had his test in an appropriately graded facility but it
didnt want to do this.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the letter WPA sent
to confirm what it would pay for made it clear that Mr C could only have the tests in a non-
premium hospital or facility. So he concluded that WPA should pay the full cost of the test Mr
C had.
Mr C accepted this, but WPA didnt. It said our investigator had referred only to the letter it
sent and hadnt taken account of the phone calls between it and Mr C where it had been
explained that there were limits on where Mr C could have tests. 
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I talk about how Ive reached my conclusions on this complaint, I should say that
Ive only considered the circumstances of this particular complaint and how the situation
arose. Any decision only applies to this complaint and its particular combination of 
circumstances.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint last month.
In summary, I thought the following:
That WPA had a duty to explain what Mr C could claim for under the terms and 
conditions of his policy, and that Mr C should take some care to use that information 
when arranging treatment if he wanted to claim for it.
That Mr C and WPA had had phone conversations where WPA explained clearly 
which facilities he could use under his policy  and Mr C acknowledged that he 
understood these.
That a letter sent by WPA authorising diagnostic tests did contain information about 
the type of facility Mr C could use, even if that wasnt on the first page.
That Mr C told us he simply wasnt thinking about where he could have treatment 
when he saw his consultant and booked his test. By mistake he booked it in a part of 
the hospital he couldnt use if he wanted WPA to pay for it.
That the layout of this particular hospital can be confusing  and that it contained 
both premium and non-premium facilities.
That it wasnt the responsibility of the consultant Mr C saw to check he was using the 
correct facilities, as he isnt party to the insurance contract.
We originally asked WPA to pay what it would have done if Mr C had used the correct 
facility, but it didnt want to do that as it believed that was unfair to others who reduced the 
cost of their policy by agreeing to use non-premium facilities. I didnt think that was a 
relevant argument as we hadnt asked WPA to pay more than it would have done if Mr C had 
used a non-premium facility. Mr C hadnt chosen the facility  hed instead forgotten to check 
where he was to be tested.
Putting things right
Overall, I didnt think WPA had settled Mr Cs claim fairly and equitably. To put things right I 
thought WPA should reimburse Mr C the cost of his test if hed had it in an appropriate 
facility, providing Mr C provided evidence of payment. 
I did consider compensation, but thought it wasnt warranted in these circumstances.
Both parties have accepted my provisional findings, so I see no reason to change my 
conclusions. Mr C has very helpfully provided a copy of his receipt to facilitate payment.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Western Provident Association 
Limited to reimburse Mr C the cost of his test up to the amount it would have reimbursed in 
an appropriate facility.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman