DRN-3998544
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited havent offered the full value of 
an item she claimed for as settlement for the claim.  
What happened
Mrs K had a home insurance policy with Admiral. In November 2022 she made a claim after 
she lost a diamond bracelet that was a specified item on the policy. 
Admiral accepted the claim and offered a £5,000 voucher as settlement. However Mrs K 
said the value of the bracelet had increased to £5,900 since she took out the policy so she 
required a higher amount. She said when she took out the policy shed been asked on the 
phone what the cost of the bracelet was and not the value. So she hadnt realised that she 
needed to increase this if the value increased. 
She made a complaint, but Admiral didnt uphold it. It said while it didnt have a copy of the 
original call, it always asks for the value of the item when a policy is taken out. And the policy 
documents state that specified items arent index linked so the value needs to be checked by 
the policyholder. And as the item had a declared value of £5,000 that was the total amount it 
was obliged to pay under the policy. 
Mrs K didnt think this was fair. She said she had thought the amount on the policy related to 
the amount she bought it for and not the market value, and this wasnt made clear in her 
initial call when she took out the policy. She brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said that the onus was on 
the customer to ensure their item had correct cover and he thought this was clear in the 
policy documents. 
Mrs K didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K says that when she took the policy out, she was asked for the selling value of the 
bracelet rather than its value, which is the amount she gave and why she didnt re-visit that 
amount at renewal. 
Admiral has been unable to provide a copy of this call, due to the length of time that has 
passed since. However Ive looked at the policy documents its provided to Mrs K each year 
to see if these are clear. 
On the policy schedule, there is a section that contains the details of specified items on the 
policy and this shows the title value and this is completed as £5,000. Underneath this the 
document states: 
Single unspecified High Risk items worth more than £1,000 must be specified in the table 
above to be covered to their full value.
Further, in the full policy document there is a section relating to specified items and under 
what is not covered it states:
Any amount over the value shown for each item in the Specified Items table in your policy 
documents.
And under the keeping your policy up to date section it states:
Personal possessions, specified items and pedal cycles are not index linked, meaning that 
their value does not automatically increase at renewal. It is important you check the personal 
possessions limit and the value for any specified items and pedal cycles listed in your Home 
Policy Schedule to make sure you have enough cover.
Mrs K first took the policy out in around 2018 and has renewed each year since. And at each 
renewal Admiral provided these documents for her to check she had the right cover. Based 
on the wording contained in these documents quoted above, Im persuaded it was clear that 
it was the value of the ring that was required for the policy cover. And that the policy will only 
pay out up to this amount so the onus is on the policyholder to check this in case the value 
has increased. So even without being able to listen to the initial call, I think theres enough 
information in the documents themselves to show what value Mrs K should have declared.
As Mrs K declared the value to be £5,000, and this wasnt amended at any of the renewals, 
this represents the total amount Admiral has agreed to cover for her bracelet. So its fair and 
reasonable that its only offered a settlement up to this amount. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied the policy documents clearly showed what was required for 
the specified items value and that Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably when settling the 
claim up to this value. I therefore wont ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman