DRN-2175757
The complaint
Mr S makes a number of complains about how he was treated by Nationwide Building 
Society.
What happened
Mr S says he attended a Nationwide branch and was treated badly by a staff member. He 
says he was mocked in branch by the staff member and then spoke to another member of 
staff on the telephone about his complaint. Mr S says that call was handled badly, and he 
was spoken to inappropriately and wasnt allowed to speak to the staff members manager. 
He would like an apology and would like action taken by Nationwide against the staff 
member in the branch. Mr S would also like compensation for what took place and 
complains about how his complaint was then dealt with.
Nationwide doesnt accept dealing inappropriately with Mr S or that its staff members were 
rude towards him. It says its staff member provided a detailed account of what took place in 
branch and it couldnt conclude it made a mistake. It also doesnt accept the call between the 
parties was dealt with inappropriately.
Mr S brought his complaint to us, but our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator said it 
was difficult to be sure what took place in the branch but thought the call was dealt with 
appropriately.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and in summary says the call handler was not polite and 
refused to allow him to speak to his manger. He also says he wasnt helped by the person 
and didnt apologise for what took place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the overall view that Nationwide has dealt fairly with this 
complaint. I realise Mr S will be disappointed by my decision and I appreciate how strongly 
he feels about what took place.
Im satisfied that Nationwide and Mr S provide different accounts about what took place in 
the branch. In those circumstances I cant be sure what took place, but Im satisfied that 
Nationwide investigated Mr Ss complaint and took a detailed statement from its staff 
member and called Mr S about his complaint. 
I appreciate Mr S complains about how that call was handled and so I have listened to it. 
Having done so I am satisfied that Nationwide fairly explained its position and the reasons 
why it wasnt upholding Mr Ss complaint. Im also satisfied it allowed Mr S to explain his 
position. I dont think Nationwide was rude towards Mr S or dealt inappropriately with him 
during that call. I think the call handler was polite throughout the call and was entitled to 
conclude that he didnt think his mangers details were relevant to the complaint.
Overall, I find that Nationwide has acted fairly. I also make clear to Mr S that we are not 
Nationwides regulator and so even if I upheld his complaint, I would not be able to order 
Nationwide to take action against the staff member or tell Mr S what the outcome of any 
action it took. I also find that Nationwide responded to Mr S within a short period of time after 
his complaint and called him as well as sending him two letters. So, I dont think it handled 
the complaint process badly as Mr S says.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman