DRN-4107798
The complaint
The estate of Mrs D is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
declined a claim made on Mrs Ds life and critical illness insurance policy (the policy), and 
thereafter cancelled the policy.
What happened
Mrs D applied for the policy in 2018. When doing so, she was asked a number of questions 
 including about her health and medical history. In light of the answers given, L&G accepted 
the application, and the policy commenced.
Very sadly, Mrs D died a couple of years later and a claim was made on the policy on behalf 
of her estate. L&G ultimately concluded that Mrs D had provided incorrect information about 
her health when applying for the policy. Had she declared information about her medical 
history correctly, L&G says it wouldnt have offered her the policy at that time. It declined the 
claim, cancelled the policy and offered to reimburse the estate of Mrs D the premiums shed 
paid for the policy since its inception. 
Unhappy, the estate of Mrs D complained to L&G. And after it set out its reasons for 
maintaining its decision, a complaint was brought to our service. Our investigator looked into 
what happened and didnt uphold the estate of Mrs Ds complaint.  As the estate disagreed, 
this complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whether L&G acted fairly and reasonably by declining the claim and 
cancelling the policy, Ive taken into account The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  and the applicable ABI Code of Practice for 
managing claims for individual and group life, critical illness and income protection insurance 
products - as I think theyre both relevant here. 
CIDRA requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
taking out a consumer insurance contract. The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. 
For it to be a qualifying misrepresentation its for the insurer (in this case L&G) to show it 
would have offered the policy on different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the 
misrepresentation. CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the 
consumer failed to take reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under 
CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless.
L&G has concluded that Mrs D made a careless disclosure when applying for the policy as 
based on the questions asked, she ought to have disclosed heart palpitations shed 
experienced in 2014 and had attended A&E about. 
For the reasons set out below, I think L&G has acted fairly and reasonably by declining the 
claim, cancelling the policy and offering to refund the estate the premiums Mrs D paid for the 
policy. Ill explain why.
When first applying for the policy, Mrs D was asked a number of questions about her 
medical history including: 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 5 
years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional for:
Chest pain, palpitations or irregular heartbeat.
Im satisfied that this is a clear question and Ill refer to it as the medical question. 
Its reflected that Mrs D answered no to the medical question. I can see that she was sent 
the personal details document to consider more than once which contained the answers 
given to certain questions - but theres nothing to suggest that she replied to correct any of 
the information on the document. So, Im satisfied that this was most likely the answer she 
gave when answering the medical question when applying for the policy.
In late 2014  so within the 5 years before she applied for the policy  Mrs Ds medical 
records reflect that she had visited A&E complaining of heart palpitations. And that these 
typically tend to happen about once per month and could last for 2-3 hours. Although Mrs D 
subsequently had an echocardiogram  the results of which were said to be reassuring  I 
dont think L&G has unreasonably concluded that Mrs D had incorrectly answered the 
medical question. And the heart palpitations shouldve been declared. 
Im satisfied L&G has fairly concluded that this amounts to a qualifying misrepresentation 
under CIDRA. And, based on what Ive seen, I think L&G has reasonably concluded that the 
medical question was answered carelessly when applying for the policy. I also think by 
asking the medical question, Mrs D ought to have reasonably realised that the answer would 
be relevant to L&G when considering whether to offer her the policy. 
L&G has provided underwriting guidance showing that if Mrs D had declared heart 
palpitations, it wouldve asked her more questions. And based on the medical records, Im 
satisfied that had Mrs D answered the follow up questions correctly, L&G wouldve been 
made aware that blood tests carried out shortly after shed attended A&E in late 2014 
showed that she had low haemoglobin levels. And that the highly specialist cardiac 
physiologist concluded in a letter dated December 2014 that this could be the cause for her 
palpitations. At the time, they requested her GP investigate possible amenia and treat, if 
required.
Looking at Mrs D medical records from after this date, to when she applied for the policy, 
theres nothing to suggest that these investigations took place, that amenia had been 
diagnosed or the cause for her low haemoglobin levels had been looked into or ascertained. 
L&G has provided information from its underwriters showing that had L&G been aware of 
this at the time Mrs D applied for the policy, the policy wouldnt have been offered and it 
wouldve postponed the application for a number of reasons - including the cause of low 
haemoglobin hadnt been investigated despite the request of the highly specialist cardiac 
physiologist in late 2014 and possible anaemia hadnt been diagnosed.So, I think the answer to the medical question mattered to L&G and was directly relevant to 
its decision to offer Mrs D the policy. And I think the information its relied on to show it 
wouldnt have offered her the policy at that time is fair.
Under CIDRA, L&G is entitled to act as it wouldve done had the medical question not been 
answered carelessly. As Im satisfied the policy wouldnt have been offered at that time, I 
think its fair and reasonable for L&G to have cancelled that policy. So, I think its acted fairly 
by offering the estate of Mrs D a refund of the premiums paid the policy, which is in line with 
what I would reasonably expect it to do in these circumstances. 
As the policy wouldnt have been in place, I also think L&G has fairly and reasonably 
declined the claim. 
When deciding this case, Ive taken into account what the estate of Mrs D says about 
anaemia not being mentioned as a cause of death on Mrs Ds death certificate and that the 
results of the echocardiogram shed had in late 2014 were reassuring and the palpitations 
shed had in 2014 didnt cause her death. However, Ive focussed on what happened in 2018 
when Mrs D applied for the policy and what L&G wouldve done had Mrs D answered the 
medical question correctly. 
I know the estate of Mrs D will be very disappointed with my decision and that Mrs Ds family 
have been through a very traumatic time. I hope it helps them to know that their concerns 
have been considered by someone independent of the parties. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs D 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman