DRN-4194440
The complaint
Mrs H complains about One Insurance Limited (OIL) and the service she received after she 
made a claim on her Home Emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs H held a Home Emergency (HE) insurance policy, underwritten by OIL. Unfortunately, 
in late February 2022, Mrs H discovered her toilet was blocked. And this was her only toilet 
in her property. So, she contacted OIL to make a claim.
OIL accepted the claim and arranged for an engineer, who Ill refer to as E to attend Mrs 
Hs property. E completed a mechanical clean which they felt restored flow to the toilet and 
so, resolved the emergency.
But the following day, Mrs H called OIL to advise that the same gurgling noise remained 
present when the toilet was flushed. And so, the toilet still wasnt able to be used. Because 
of this, Mrs H requested that E re-attend, to look at the issue again. OIL refused to arrange 
another attendance through the HE policy initially, as they felt a repair had already been 
completed. So, if further investigation work was needed, OIL felt Mrs H would need to claim 
through her separate home insurance policy. And, that this would take several days to 
arrange. Mrs H was unhappy with this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs H didnt think OIL were fair to leave her without access to a working toilet. She explained 
because of this, shed need to ask her neighbour for help which had caused her both upset 
and embarrassment. Mrs H was also unhappy with the service the call handlers from OIL 
provided her, when she was seeking a re-attendance from E. So, Mrs H wanted to be 
compensated for this.
OIL responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought based on Es comments, 
and the photographic evidence E supplied, they were fair to decide the emergency had been 
resolved by E and so, that the HE policy product was performed as outlined. But despite this, 
as a gesture of good will, they offered to refund Mrs Hs excess of £25. Mrs H remained 
unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. As Mrs Hs toilet was presenting the 
same issues the day after a temporary repair had been completed by E, they felt OIL 
shouldve arrange for a second attendance as they felt an emergency was still present. So, 
they thought OIL had acted unfairly when refusing to do so. To recognise the upset and 
inconvenience this decision caused Mrs H, our investigator recommended that OIL pay Mrs 
H £75, on top of the £25 excess refund, to fairly resolve the complaint.
Mrs H accepted this recommendation. But OIL didnt respond, despite our service asking 
them to on several occasions. As OIL didnt respond, our service has assumed they reject 
the recommendation. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome
In this situation, as OIL initially accepted Mrs Hs claim and instructed E to attend her 
property, I think OIL accepted that Mrs Hs situation was an insured event and met the 
criteria for an emergency, as she was without access to a working toilet in her property.
Under the terms of the policy Mrs H held, where OIL have accepted a claim OIL state they 
will pay a combined total of £250.00 (including VAT) for labour, advice, parts and materials 
to cover an emergency for insured events. So, for the product to have performed as OIL 
intended, Id expect Es attendance, and the actions E took, to have resolved the emergency 
Mrs H found herself in. And in this situation, I dont think it did.
It's not in dispute that following Es attendance on 28 February 2022, Mrs H called OIL the 
next day to explain the same issues were still present. Namely, a gurgling coming through 
the bath when the toilet was flushed. Had E successfully repaired Mrs Hs toilet, I wouldnt 
have expected the same issues to present themselves so soon after. So, when Mrs H did 
contact OIL she was still in the same situation without access to a fully functional toilet, I 
wouldve expected OIL to arrange another engineer to attend, whether that be E or another 
engineer entirely. And I wouldve expected them to look to arrange this as soon as 
reasonably possible, as I think Mrs H still found herself in an emergency situation.
But OIL didnt do this, stating their belief the issue no longer met the criteria for the HE policy 
Mrs H held. As the issues were the same as the day before, and Es repair had failed to 
rectify the issue for less than 24 hours, I dont think this was a reasonable determination for 
OIL to make. So, I think they acted unfairly when they refused to arrange for an engineer to 
reattend within a reasonable time frame. As I think OIL acted unfairly, Ive then thought 
about what I think they should do to put things right.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs H back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had OIL acted fairly in the first place. In this situation, had OIL acted fairly, I think 
they wouldve look to arrange a second attendance to her property to ensure Mrs Hs toilet 
was correctly unblocked and so, fully functional. 
But OIL didnt. So, this resulted in Mrs H needing to seek assistance from someone else. 
And she did this after speaking to OIL on three separate occasions in an attempt to force 
OIL to arrange a reattendance. So, I think Mrs H was caused some inconvenience by this. 
And as Mrs H has confirmed, she was left needing to seek help from her neighbour who had 
to take further steps to fully clear the blockage which I do think would have been 
embarrassing for Mrs H, considering what matter the blockage itself was likely to contain.
Our investigator recommended OIL pay Mrs H an additional £75 compensation, on top of 
their good will offer of a £25 excess refund, to recognise this inconvenience and upset. And I 
think this payment is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and what I 
wouldve directed, had it not already been recommended.
I think it fairly considers the inconvenience Mrs H was caused needing to call OIL several times the day after E attended her property. And the stress she wouldve felt needing to find 
someone else to help her, considering she was without a fully functional toilet. I think it also 
touches on the embarrassment Mrs H was likely to have felt needing to ask her neighbour to 
assist her in unblocking the toilet, which was more than likely unsanitary. 
But I do also think it recognises the fact Mrs H was able to arrange for her toilet to be 
unblocked that day, meaning she wasnt without access to a toilet for an extended period of 
time. And I think it also takes into consideration OILs attempts to resolve the emergency 
initially, and their good will offer of refunding Mrs Hs excess, which I still expect them to 
honour if this refund has not already been processed. So, the additional payment of £75 is 
one Im directing OIL to make.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Hs complaint about One Insurance Limited 
and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs H an additional £75, on top of the £25 excess refund already put forward, to 
recognise the upset and inconvenience she was caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman