DRN-4145726
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined his claim for an escape 
of water and avoided his home insurance policy (treated it like it never existed). 
What happened
Mr Y took out a home insurance policy with Admiral online. When the property was damaged 
by an escape of water, he made a claim.
Admiral said hed answered the question it asked about occupying the property when he 
bought the policy and about it being furnished incorrectly. Admiral considered this to be a 
careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid the policy. 
Mr Y brought his complaint to us and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr Y doesnt agree with the Investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ive looked at the example decision Mr Y has sent us to support his complaint. While it has 
some similarities, it isnt the same and we look at each case on its own merits. 
Admiral Insurance says Mr Y failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he answered yes to confirm that this would be his main residence, and currently 
occupied by him. 
Mr Y bought the insurance policy a week before he bought the property. He said he 
misunderstood the question and thought it was related to whether he would occupy the 
property - or that a tenant would occupy the property. As he intended to occupy the property 
once some renovation works had been completed, Mr Y said he believed hed answered this 
question correctly. 
Admiral has provided screenshots of the online journey Mr Y went through when applying for 
the policy as evidence to support its decision.
The first key question Mr Y was presented with was Is this house your main home? The 
options included permanent main residence, holiday home, unoccupied. 
Mr Y answered, permanent main residence. However Mr Y was living abroad and so the 
property was unoccupied. 
Admiral has shown that if Mr Y had answered unoccupied, he would have been presented 
with further questions:
Why is your house unoccupied?
 How long will it be unoccupied for?
The options provided included pending sale which Mr Y if answered correctly he would 
have then needed to answer either of the following options; less than 30 days, 30 to 90 
days, 3 to 6 months, indefinitely, until house sold. 
Admiral has shown that if Mr Y had answered any option other than less than 30 days it 
wouldnt have offered a policy and the application would have stopped here. 
Upon answering the questions as Mr Y did, he was presented with important statements 
which he needed to agree with so that the application could proceed:
The key one in relation to this case is:
Important Statement - about your home
Is lived in by yourself and furnished for normal living purposes with connected utilities 
- or will be within two weeks of the policy start date
Mr Y answered, yes to the question are all these important statements true? but the 
property wasnt furnished or lived in by Mr Y within two weeks of the policy start date. So Mr 
Y didnt answer this question correctly. Mr Y told us that he was living abroad when he 
bought the policy and this was still the situation on 16 December 2022. So he wasnt living at 
the property within the timeframe set under the agreed statements. 
If Mr Y had answered no to this question he would not have been able to proceed with his 
application with Admiral. Admiral has shown he would have been presented with the option 
to call Admiral to discuss his circumstances. As Admiral would have asked if the property 
would be furnished within two weeks and lived in by Mr Y, the correct answer was no and 
so the application would not have proceeded. 
So - the issue in relation to the 30 day or 60 day occupying of the home doesnt change the 
outcome in this case - as Mr Y misrepresented the facts which would have led to a qualifying 
misrepresentation in relation to living in the property furnished within two weeks of the start 
date of the policy. 
As I think the questions put to Mr Y were clear, Im satisfied that Mr Y failed to take 
reasonable care and made a qualifying misrepresentation when he applied for the policy. The next stage is to consider whether the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or 
careless. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ys misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive looked at the 
actions Admiral can take in accordance with CIDRA. Admiral has classified the 
misrepresentation as careless, so it has avoided the policy and refunded the premium Mr Y 
paid under the policy. I think this is fair and in line with CIDRA. If Admiral decided the 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, it would be entitled to keep the premium paid.
Therefore, Im satisfied Admiral was entitled to avoid Mr Ys policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And, as this means that  in effect  his policy never existed, Admiral does not have 
to deal with his claim. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation 
cases, I think allowing Admiral to rely on it to avoid Mr Ys policy produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ys complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman