DRN-1191797
Complaint
Mrs W complains that Santander UK Plc has unfairly added legal costs to the balance of her 
mortgage.
Background
In 2005, Mrs W took out a repayment mortgage for approximately £134,000 with Santander. 
The mortgage was repayable over 22 years.
In June 2019, Santander agreed with Mrs W that it would capitalise arrears which were 
approximately £3,600 at that time. In the years leading up to that point Mrs W had been in 
various payment arrangements and when these had failed, Santander had engaged the 
services of solicitors to commence repossession proceedings. The cost of this legal work 
was added to Mrs Ws mortgage balance and capitalised along with the arrears in 2019. 
Mrs W says she wasnt aware she was liable for the cost of the legal work and adding this to 
the amount capitalised has resulted in a higher monthly mortgage payment than she 
expected.
In its final response letter, Santander explained that the account was first referred to its 
solicitors in November 2017. The account was then managed by the solicitors until July 
2019, when Mrs Ws arrears were capitalised. It says its solicitors provided an invoice for 
£907 and it added that amount to Mrs Ws mortgage account balance. It says it referred Mrs 
Ws account to its solicitors fairly and so it wont reimburse her account with the cost of the 
fees on this occasion.
Mrs W didnt agree and brought her complaint to this Service. Our investigator said he 
thought it was reasonable for Santander to expect Mrs W to pay the legal costs as this is 
what Mrs W agreed to when taking out the mortgage. This is confirmed in the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage.
Mrs W didnt accept our investigators findings, saying she wasnt informed that legal fees 
would be payable by her. So, her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
To decide Mrs Ws complaint, I have considered whether her mortgage conditions allowed 
Santander to charge her for its legal costs in relation to the administration of her account. 
Ive also considered whether it was reasonable for Santander to have engaged solicitors 
when it did and whether it reasonably informed Mrs W that the costs would be paid by her.
Santander has provided us with the wording for its terms and conditions which were supplied 
with Mrs Ws mortgage offer in 2005. The terms and conditions state:8.10 The following terms apply if we have incurred any costs under condition 26:
a.We will debit the costs to the Mortgage Account.
b.You agree to pay the costs to us on demand.
 
26.1 In these conditions, costs means all costs and expenses incurred by us or an 
associated company in connection with the mortgage. Those costs include (but are not 
limited to):
a.all costs and expenses which we or an associated company must pay to any other 
person in connection with any of the items listed in condition 26.02: and
b.all administration costs incurred by us or by an associated company in doing any 
work in connection with any of the items listed in condition 26.2
 
26.2 The items mentioned in condition 26.1 are:
a.creating, protecting, preserving or enforcing our security;
b.recovering any of the money you owe us;
c.bringing or defending any legal proceedings (whether or not you are party to the 
proceedings);
 
Santander has also provided a full breakdown of the costs it incurred and added to Mrs Ws 
account. Those costs are all in respect of bringing legal proceedings or the administration of 
bringing legal proceedings. So, Im satisfied Mrs Ws mortgage conditions allow Santander to 
add those costs to Mrs Ws account.
To consider whether it was reasonable for Santander to refer Mrs Ws account to its 
solicitors when it did, Ive looked at Santanders usual criteria for doing so. This states:
 
The arrears must be greater than £2,000.00
The arrears must exceed three Contractual Monthly Payments
The overall mortgage balance must be greater than £10,000.00
 
At the time Mrs Ws account was referred to Santander solicitors, her arrears totalled 
approximately £3,400. Her contractual monthly payment was £668.77, so her arrears were 
more than five months. And her mortgage balance was considerably more than £2,000. So, 
Santander did satisfy its own criteria for referring an account to its solicitors.
I think Santanders criteria for referral is reasonable, particularly in relation to the number of 
months the account needs to be in arrears before it is referred. I say that because I dont 
think it would be in the best interests of its customer for Santander to allow an account to run 
at an increasing number of arrears without taking action. 
Ive seen from Santanders contact notes that Mrs W was told in February 2017, shed need 
to make contact after her current four-month payment arrangement ended. The notes 
indicate she didnt make contact at that time. Santanders notes from  October 2017 indicate 
that Mrs W had made no contact for the previous six months. And notes from November 
2017 say Mrs W hadnt responded to phone calls or an appointed field agent. So, given that 
Santanders criteria for referral had been satisfied and contact with Mrs W wasnt successful, 
I think it reasonable that Santander appointed solicitors when it did.Mrs W has said she wasnt made aware that solicitors costs would be charged to her 
account. So, Ive looked into whether Santander did inform her.       
Santander wrote to Mrs W in September 2017. It asked her to make contact about her 
arrears and make a payment arrangement. The letter said it required action from Mrs W and 
that, if it needed to take legal action, she would be liable for legal fees and costs. The 
account was referred to solicitors in October 2017. So, in addition to the terms and 
conditions provided to Mrs W with her mortgage offer, Santander informed Mrs W she would 
be liable for legal fees and costs in a letter. I think this level of notification is reasonable.
In summary
Overall, I think Santander reasonably informed Mrs W that she would be liable for legal fees 
and costs and the terms and conditions of Mrs Ws mortgage allow them to do this. And I 
think it was reasonable for Santander to refer her account to its solicitors when it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint about  Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2020.
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman