DRN-2887673
The complaint
Mr W says James Hay Administration Company Ltd (JH) delayed the transfer of his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) in 2019 and therefore caused the SIPP to be uninvested, 
during the transfer, for longer than should have been the case. JH upheld his complaint, but 
Mr W disputes the basis upon which it has calculated redress for him.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the matter and concluded that JHs redress calculation 
is fair and reasonable. In the main:
He noted the chronology of key events in 2019, which was mainly as follows  on 27 
November Mr Ws financial adviser instructed the SIPP transfer; JH followed the 
instruction and on 29 November it liquidated the SIPPs holdings; on 6 December it 
received the final sale proceeds; on 16 December JH completed its transfer payment 
checklist; and on 18 December it completed the transfer and sent the funds to the 
new SIPP provider.
He also noted that JH had upheld Mr Ws complaint, had accepted that there was a 
delay in its process, had said the transfer should have been concluded on 13 
December (not 18 December), had calculated redress on this basis and had offered 
him two options for the payment of the resulting redress  either a payment of 
£35,470.14 into his new SIPP or an ex gratia payment of £28,376.11 directly to him.
He said JH caused no delay between its receipt of the advisers instruction on 27 
November and its receipt of the sale proceeds on 6 December, because it actioned 
the instruction within two working days and it could not proceed further until the final 
sale proceeds were received.
He also said it is reasonable for JH to base its redress calculation on the notion that 
the transfer should have been completed in five working days from 6 December  so, 
13 December  given the number of tasks and checks it needed to complete before 
sending the funds to the new SIPP provider; and that JHs redress calculation 
method was fair and consistent with our services approach for such a calculation. 
Mr W disagreed with this outcome. He disputed the investigators finding that five working 
days (from 6 December) is a reasonable period to allow in terms of JH completing the 
transfer after receipt of the liquidation funds and he considered that the investigator had 
simply taken JHs assertion on this without question or evidence. He challenged the idea of 
JH having to conduct checks after 6 December and he asked why such checks could not 
have been done before receipt of the sale proceeds. The matter was referred to an 
Ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The matter in dispute is redress. 
JH concedes that it caused a delay to the transfer process after receiving the sale proceeds 
on 6 December, and I agree. Like the investigator said, it actioned the advisers instruction in 
reasonable time  the instruction was given on 27 November and was actioned on 29 
November. JH thereafter had to await receipt of the full sale proceeds. Its receipt of the final 
sale proceeds on 6 December is supported by evidence in a copy of Mr Ws SIPP account 
activity statement for the relevant period. This shows that proceeds from the sales of fund 
units in the SIPP were deposited over 4, 5 and 6 December  with the last deposits 
happening on 6 December.
I do not consider that JH caused a delay in the process up to 6 December. It actioned the 
instruction reasonably promptly and it thereafter awaited receipt of all the sale proceeds 
deposits. I understand Mr Ws point about whether (or not) there were checks JH could have 
conducted prior to receiving all the sales proceeds  and I understand the implication within 
this point that JH ought reasonably to have taken any required action in the process prior to 
6 December where such action was not dependent on receiving all the sale proceeds. I 
address the matter of JHs transfer related checks below, but a preliminary point to note is 
that I have not seen evidence that action required but not performed prior to 6 December 
caused a delay to the process. Available evidence suggests that the delay arose in relation 
to action required and conducted after this date.
A copy of JHs Closures Transfer Payment Checklist has been shared with us. JH 
completed this document on 16 December. It is a document with 26 checklist points. JH 
ticked N/A (not applicable) for 13 (or half) of them, which suggests that even if these could 
have been addressed (that is, addressed as N/A) earlier in the process they were/are 
arguably irrelevant to my consideration of what JH had to do after 6 December. Of the 
remaining 13, around half of them included final checks on outstanding issues, works and 
fees in the SIPP account prior to closure and final checks on banking details and accuracy of 
the cash balance in the account prior to closure. 
It was not unreasonable for these to be addressed after 6 December, and just before 
completion of the transfer and closure of the account. It is important to be mindful that both  
transfer of the SIPP and closure of the account  were the tasks that faced JH, that Mr Ws 
account was a high value account, that whilst any account transfer and closure would have 
been entitled to due and proper final checks JH could reasonably have paid a little more 
attention in the final checks for Mr Ws because it was a high value account and that both 
tasks were, reasonably, to be progressed and processed at the same time. Hence the need 
for these types of final checks, after receipt of cash and just before conclusion (in both 
respects).
The account activity statement shows that Mr Ws SIPP received dividend payments on 12 
and 13 December. It appears that the transfer and account closure had to await these too. 
6 December 2019 was a Friday. We do not appear to have evidence of the specific time, on 
this date, that receipt of all the sales proceeds was completed. In any case, I do not consider 
it unreasonable that JHs process, upon such receipt of all proceeds, resumed on Monday 9 
December. Dividend payments had to be collected/received on 12 and 13 December. The 
statement shows that JH resolved its fees in the account on 11 and 13 December. The final 
checks could therefore have been completed on 13 December and nothing else appears to 
have been outstanding at the time or thereafter.On balance and for the above reasons, I am satisfied with JHs estimation that it should have 
completed the transfer by 13 December. Its delay, up to 16 December, in conducting the 
final checks and its delay, up to 18 December, in completing the transfer could and should 
have been avoided. However, for the above reasons, I am not persuaded by Mr Ws 
argument that the transfer could and/or should have been completed earlier than 13 
December.
13 December 2019 was also a Friday. JHs redress calculation is based on the notion that, 
but for its delay, the transfer would have been completed on this date and Mr W would have 
been in a position to invest in his new SIPP on the next working date  16 December. I do 
not find this unreasonable. Without evidence on when, on 13 December, the transfer would 
probably have been completed, it is fair to conclude that, on balance, the earliest opportunity 
to invest in Mr Ws new SIPP would have been on the next business day of Monday 16 
December. The calculation correctly compares the costs of the investments actually made in 
the new SIPP (between December 2019 and January 2020) with what they would have cost 
if the same investments were made on 16 December 2019, and the net difference served as 
the basis for the redress amount it offered Mr W  the two options being defined by his 
preference on whether (or not) to receive it within his SIPP. I do not consider this approach 
to be unreasonable and like the investigator said it broadly reflects the approach we would 
take to the calculation in his case. The investments in the new SIPP were/are a natural 
benchmark for calculating redress in his case and 16 December 2019 is a fair date to use.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I do not consider that JHs redress offer to  
Mr W is unfair or unreasonable, and I do not agree with his pursuit of a different offer (and/or 
his pursuit of a different basis for calculating redress). 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman