DRN-4109638
The complaint
Mr M complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) handled a report he made as a claim 
under his home insurance policy. He says this has now affected his premium.  
What happened
Mr M says there was a leak to his mains water pipe, so he reported this to AXA. He says 
they arranged for an engineer to attend who carried out a temporary repair. Mr M says he 
then received confirmation from AXA that his claim had been declined so he carried out the 
re-piping work himself. Mr M says he then shopped around for a policy the following year 
and found out there was a claim on his policy which was affecting the price. Mr M 
complained that, despite being told AXA had declined his claim, a payment of £864.30 had 
been made by AXA and a claim recorded against his policy on the Claims Underwriting 
Exchange (CUE) database. AXA responded and explained the claim had been correctly 
recorded on the CUE database as being declined, with no monies paid to Mr M. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. He thought AXA hadnt acted unreasonably in 
recording the claim. Mr M disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr M will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ms home insurance policy documents. The Insurance Product 
Information Document (IPID) generally sets out the most important and relevant 
information about the policy. This says Mr M is covered for Loss or damage caused 
byescape of water and Accidental damage to underground pipes It also says Mr M 
isnt covered for Loss or damage caused by wear and tearor any other gradual cause. I 
understand Mr M is concerned as, despite being informed by AXA that his claim was 
declined, he later found out that a claim was recorded against his policy and AXA had made 
a payment on the claim.  
Claim notes provided by AXA show they spoke with Mr M, and he explained hed heard the 
sound of water running, so he dug up part of the garden and hit a pipe with his shovel which 
caused a leak. 
System notes provided by AXA show they recorded this as a claim for accidental damage 
and the note goes further to say Mr M has accidental damage cover in place for pipes on 
standard buildings so AXA can consider the claim. AXA then called Mr M to discuss his 
claim further and the call handler explained they can consider the costs for repair of the pipe, 
and they confirmed the excess payable on the basis this event would fall under accidental 
damage. The call handler explained they will appoint a contractor to arrange a repair. The 
contractor appointed an engineer to attend, and they carried out a temporary repair. AXAs 
notes say they then received contact from Mr M to say the contractor explained they would 
contact him in the next few days to discuss next steps. AXAs system notes show the 
contractor contacted them to explain the initial leak was down to corroded supply pipes.       
The contractor then wrote to Mr M to say Mr Ms policy provides cover against damage by 
any of the insured causes detailed in your policy booklet (e.g. accidental damage), however, 
on this occasion our investigations have shown that the cause of damage is as a result of 
age related corrosion through gradual operational causes. They say, on behalf of AXA, no 
financial cover can be provided. The system notes show AXA covered the accidental 
damage part of the claim, but they wouldnt cover the further initial leak as this was down to 
wear and tear. The notes show Mr M called AXA and asked if the claim needed to be 
declared on renewal. The call notes say the call handler explained, as the claim has been 
registered on the system, it will show on the insurance database, so Mr M will need to 
declare this as a declined claim. The system notes show the payment of £864.30 AXA made 
to the contractor was for investigation costs. 
Taking this all into account, I dont think AXA have acted unreasonably here as the 
information shows a claim was made. I understand Mr M wants details of the claim to be 
removed from the CUE database, but I dont think thats reasonable in the circumstances 
here as, even though the claim was declined, the information shows a claim was considered 
by AXA. 
I note Mr M believes, when he first reported the incident to AXA, the call handler shouldve 
explained he wasnt covered for accidental damage. I acknowledge Mr Ms point but, from 
the information Ive seen, it appears Mr Ms policy does cover the incident circumstances 
surrounding the shovel hitting the pipe. AXA have treated this as accidental damage, and 
thats why a contractor was appointed to investigate the claim and why they carried out 
temporary repairs for this. I agree Mr M was later notified that the initial leak wont be 
covered due to the cause being wear and tear, but AXA wont have known this at the time of 
Mr Ms initial call  and the age-related corrosion only came to light following the contractors 
investigation. So, given the incident circumstances described by Mr M during the first call, 
and the further steps taken by AXA to deal with this, I think it was reasonable for AXA to 
handle this as a claim.   
Mr M also says he only called AXA to report this, but he never made a claim. I acknowledge 
Mr Ms point but its clear from the early discussions which took place that AXA would be 
handling this as a claim. I say this because the notes show AXA discussed Mr Ms policy 
excess and they also explained they would be appointing a contractor to carry out repairs. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy sets out what steps AXA will take when being 
notified of a claim, and this refers to them appointing a contractor and also reminds Mr M 
about an excess being payable. So, I think, from the early discussions between Mr M and 
AXA, it was clear they were handling this incident as a claim. 
I wish to reassure Mr M Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Paviter DhaddyOmbudsman