DRN-3134987
The complaint
Ms A complains that NewDay Ltd irresponsibly allowed her to open three credit card 
accounts and later increased the credit limits on them which was unaffordable.
 What happened
Ms A says she opened three NewDay credit card accounts which I will call A, M and D 
all of which were unaffordable. She says the credit limits were also increased on the 
accounts which was also unaffordable. Ms A says if NewDay had looked at her credit file she 
would have seen the difficult financial position she was in and had low income with other 
debts. She says NewDay didnt carry out appropriate checks on the applications and would 
like the charges and interest refunded and any adverse information removed from her credit 
file.
NewDay accepts it shouldnt have opened the D account and has refunded interest and 
charges on that account. It says the decision to allow accounts A and M was appropriate and 
that it did carry out required checks. NewDay says Ms A told it about her income and it 
carried out affordability checks as well as checks on her credit file. It accepts later credit limit 
increases were inappropriate when it was clear Ms A was in financial difficulties.
Ms A brought her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it in part. The investigator 
agreed that the D account should not have been opened and recommended the default be 
removed from Ms As credit file. The investigator thought appropriate checks were carried 
out on the A and M accounts and Ms A declared an income of £12,000 with additional 
income of between £1,500 to £2,600. The investigator didnt think there was any adverse 
information on Ms As credit file at that time or at the time of the credit limit increases up to 
September 2015 and that Ms A managed those accounts appropriately.
The investigator didnt think later credit limit increases on the M and A accounts in 2018 
were affordable and recommended NewDay refund any charges and interest as well as 
remove any adverse information from Ms As credit file. The investigator thought the defaults 
were correctly applied and didnt think it likely any actual re-payment to Ms A was likely and 
so interest would not be awarded.
NewDay accepts the investigators view and recommendations.
Ms A doesnt agree with that view and says she didnt ask for the credit limit increases and 
says she had other debts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. I appreciate Ms A will be disappointed by my decision.
There is no dispute here that the D account shouldnt have been opened and so I will not 
comment on that part of the complaint further. I can see that NewDay has fairly agreed to 
remove the default from Ms As credit file.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
application for credit or lending. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type and 
amount of any lending. This was an application by Ms A for a credit facility and so I wouldnt 
have expected NewDays checks to have been as detailed as for example a mortgage, but I 
would still expect appropriate checks to be carried out.
Im satisfied that Ms A applied for the A account in 2015 and declared an income of £12,000 
a year as well as additional income of £2,600. I can see from NewDays records that it did 
check her credit file and noted there was no adverse information or defaults recorded on it. I 
can see NewDay also carried out affordability checks and approved what I think was a very 
modest credit limit of £300. So, Im satisfied NewDay carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks on the application and its decision to approve the account was not 
unaffordable or irresponsible.
The credit limits on account A were increased in 2015 to £1,100. Im satisfied that limit was 
relatively modest and that NewDay considered the increases and was entitled to consider 
Ms As appropriate account management such as the lack of missed or late payments. It 
follows that I find that the credit limit increases were affordable and that reasonable and 
proportionate checks were carried out. I appreciate Ms A may not have requested the 
increases, but I dont think that is the issue here and in any event the account terms and 
conditions make clear that NewDay may review credit limits.
The M account was opened in May 2016. Im satisfied that again Ms A declared an income 
of £12,000 a year with additional income of £1,500 a year. Im satisfied that NewDay carried 
out checks on that application and fairly considered the lack of adverse information on Ms 
As credit file. I can also see that affordability checks were carried out and a relatively 
modest credit limit was approved. So, Im satisfied this application was also appropriately 
considered and that reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out by NewDay. And 
that the account was affordable.
Both the A and M accounts were given further credit limit increases in around 2018. It is 
accepted these were unaffordable and ought not to have been given. I dont need to 
comment further on those increases.
I appreciate Ms A says she had other debts in 2015 that ought to have been obvious to 
NewDay. But I have not seen any evidence of those debts and would have expected Ms A to 
have provided a full copy of her credit file in these circumstances. I have made clear that Im 
satisfied that NewDay carried out reasonable and proportionate checks on the A and M 
applications and on the 2015 credit limit increases.
Putting things right
NewDay should remove the D default as its agreed to do and can see it has refunded 
interest and charges on that account.
NewDay should remove any adverse information from Ms As credit file related to the 
decision to increase her credit limit on accounts A and M from June 2018 which was the date 
of the unaffordable credit limit increases. It should also refund interest and charges and 
deduct them from the balance owed. If there is a further balance repayable to Ms A then it 
should pay 8% simple interest on that amount. If NewDay deducts any taxation from that 
refund, then it should provide a certificate to Ms A.NewDay should also agree a suitable repayment plan with Ms A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order NewDay Ltd to carry out the 
actions it has agreed to do which are listed in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman