DRN-3880185
The complaint
Mr B complains 1Plus1 Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr B applied for, and was given a loan for £1,250, which was repayable
over a period of 12 months. The repayments were around £128 a month.
In March 2017 Mr B was given a second loan for £2,000, which was repayable over a period
of 18 months. The repayments were around £150 a month. This loan repaid the first loan.
Mr B says 1Plus1 Loans didnt check he could afford the loans before it gave them to him,
and it shouldnt have agreed to lend to him. 1Plus1 Loans says it did check whether the
loans were affordable, and based on those checks, Mr B had enough disposable income to
make the loan repayments.
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint and explained why I didnt think 1Plus1 
Loans had done anything wrong by giving Mr B the first loan. I also explained why I thought 
it had done something wrong by giving him the second loan. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr B
irresponsibly. It should have completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr B would be able to pay the loan in a sustainable way. Generally, we think its
reasonable for checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information is gathered
and what is done to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think more needed to be done if, for example, a borrowers income was low or
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed
expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Loan 1 (2016)
This was Mr Bs first loan with 1Plus1 Loans. It was a relatively small loan, repayable over a
relatively short period of time, so a less detailed affordability assessment, with less
verification might be reasonable and proportionate.
Because of the time thats passed, 1Plus1 Loans hasnt been able to give us much evidence
of the checks it did before giving Mr B loan 1. But I note this was available when it issued its
final response letter. I think its reasonable to rely on what was said in the final response
letter about the checks, as the detail hasnt been challenged by Mr B and much of the
information matches, or is similar, to the information we have for loan 2  and there was only
six months between the two loans being taken out.
1Plus1 Loans says it completed some checks to see if the loans were affordable. It asked
Mr B for details of his income and expenditure and verified these with third parties. It says it
reviewed his credit file to understand his credit history and existing commitments. From
these checks combined 1Plus1 Loans concluded that Mr B had enough monthly disposable
income to afford the loan.
As Ive said, I dont have all the details of what Mr B told 1Plus1 Loans about his income and
expenditure when he took out loan 1 but it doesnt look like his circumstances changed
significantly between taking out loans 1 and 2  his income, for example, was the same and
he was single, living at home and had no dependents, so his living expenses are likely to be
similar.
Based on 1Plus1 Loans checks for loan 2, it concluded Mr B had a monthly disposable
income of over £500, not including the payment for the new loan (or loan 1). Its likely this
would have been similar for loan 1 for the reasons Ive already explained. So, based on this,
its likely the affordability calculation 1Plus1 Loans did for loan 1 would have shown it was
affordable.
We dont know what the credit check 1Plus1 Loans did when agreeing loan 1 showed. But
looking at the credit file Mr B provided when he made the complaint to us, its likely to have
shown he was up to date with the payments on all his open accounts. We know from the
credit file Mr B gave us that he had taken out a number of high-cost short-term loans in the
months leading up to applying for loan 1. But, based on the results 1Plus1 Loans got when it
did the credit check for loan 2, its unlikely these will all have shown on the credit check for
loan 1.
To explain, there are three main credit reference agencies (CRA) in the UK. Lenders are not
required to report information to all the CRAs, it is up to the lender to decide which CRA they
wish to use, if any. 1Plus1 Loans uses one of the main CRAs to do its credit checks, when
making decisions about whether to lend  there is nothing wrong with this and I wouldnt
expect it to check with all the CRAs. So if another lender hadnt reported information to the
CRA 1Plus1 Loans used, details of that credit wouldnt show on the credit check.
Its unlikely there will have been anything in the checks 1Plus1 Loans did to suggest Mr B
might have difficulties sustainably repaying loan 1. So I wouldnt have expected it to do any
further checks or verification  particularly given the level of borrowing, term of the loan and
the lack of any previous lending relationship with Mr B.
Im currently satisfied that 1Plus1 Loans checks before approving loan 1 were proportionate.
And its likely the information it gathered suggested Mr B could afford the payments.
Loan 2 (2017)
The checks 1Plus1 Loans did when Mr B approached it again for further borrowing were
similar to loan 1. As Ive already said, it calculated Mr B had a monthly disposable income of
£500  so based on this, 1Plus1 Loans concluded loan 2 was affordable.
The credit check 1Plus1 Loans did for loan 2 showed he had three credit cards, one loan
(not including the first 1Plus1 Loans loan), a catalogue shopping account, a mobile phone
account and a bank account. It showed he was up to date with the payments on all of these.
During the conversation Mr B had with 1Plus1 Loans before the loan was approved, he toldit about another, larger loan he had that wasnt showing on his credit check. He confirmed
the monthly payments he was making towards this loan but 1Plus1 Loans didnt ask him
anything else about it, such as when hed taken it out or how much he still owed.
He also said he had two outstanding payday loans. He gave details of the outstanding
balances, and the monthly payment amounts for these. The details he gave didnt
completely match the information about the loan that showed on 1Plus1 Loans credit check,
so it isnt clear if this was an additional loan on top of the ones Mr B mentioned in the call, or
whether hed just misremembered the details about one of this payday loans. 1Plus1 Loans
didnt question this any further.
The rules and regulations in place when 1Plus1 Loans lent to Mr B required it to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay the credit he
was being advanced in a sustainable manner. The assessment had to be borrower
focused  so 1Plus1 Loans had to think about whether repaying the loan sustainably would
cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for
1Plus1 Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to
consider the impact of the repayments on Mr B.
Mr B had returned to 1Plus1 Loans to borrow more money just six months after taking out
the first loan. And while the loan amount was still relatively small and the term relatively
short, when Mr B told 1Plus1 Loans hed had to take out at least two high-cost loans to get
by, I think this should have prompted it to do more checks. From what it knew at that point, it
would seem likely Mr B hadnt been able to sustainably repay the previous loan, with its
lower monthly payments  hed needed borrow more money to do this.
Even if 1Plus1 Loans had just asked Mr B a few more questions about the loans hed
mentioned and had asked about any other borrowing hed had since the previous loan, it
would have quickly become apparent Mr B hadnt been able to sustainably repay the first
loan and that lending him even more money wasnt responsible. The credit file Mr B has
given us shows hed had many smaller shorter-term loans in the six months since the first
loan. He was clearly not in a stable financial situation and was unable to repay what he
already owed let alone any new credit.
Im currently not satisfied that 1Plus1 Loans checks before approving this loan went far
enough  it needed a better understanding of Mr Bs credit history and financial situation. But
the information it did gather already suggests that Mr B could not afford any further
borrowing so 1Plus1 Loans should have declined the application for loan 2.
Neither Mr B nor 1Plus1 Loans responded to my provisional decision by the deadline I set.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither 1Plus1 Loans nor Mr B have provided any new evidence or arguments in 
response to my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
It follows that for the reasons set out here and in my provisional decision, Im still satisfied 
that 1Plus1 Loans checks before approving loan 1 were proportionate. And its likely the 
information it gathered suggested Mr B could afford the payments. Im also still not satisfied 
that 1Plus1 Loans checks before approving loan 2 went far enough  it needed a better 
understanding of Mr Bs credit history and financial situation. But the information it did gather already suggested Mr B could not afford any further borrowing so 1Plus1 Loans should have 
declined the application for loan 2.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business 
as far as its reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in
now if the mistakes it made hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean putting Mr B in
the position he would now be in if he hadnt been given the second loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending.
Mr B was given the loan and he used the money. In these circumstances, I cant undo whats
already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr B back in the position he would be in if he
hadnt been given the loan in the first place. Instead, I must consider another way of putting
things right fairly and reasonably given the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I currently think 1Plus1 Loans should:
a) Remove all interest, fees and charges applied to his second loan from the outset. 
The payments Mr B made should then be deducted from the new starting balance. If 
the payments Mr B has made total more than the amount he was originally lent, then 
any surplus should be treated as overpayments and refunded to him.
b) Add 8% simple interest* calculated on any overpayments made, from the date they 
were paid by Mr B to the date the complaint is settled.
c) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result of this 
loan, once the debt is repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1
Loans should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint about the first loan taken out in 2016 but I do uphold the 
complaint about the second loan taken out in 2017. 1Plus1 Loans Limited must put things 
right in the way I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 February 2023. 
Claire Allison
Ombudsman