DRN-4288967
The complaint
Mr S complained about the customer service he received from Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited (RSA) under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr S made an emergency claim one evening when he noticed water leaking through his light 
fitting. He was anxious as he was due to go on holiday one and a half days later.
RSA said it would call back within four hours, but it didnt so at 1am Mr S went to bed and 
chased up the claim early the following morning. RSA took around four hours to respond. It 
said it wouldnt have been able to deploy workmen during the night anyway and then said it 
didnt have any workmen available to dispatch that day. So, RSA told Mr S to appoint his 
own contractor and it would refund reasonable expenses. But Mr S couldnt find anyone 
willing to visit in the half day he had remaining before he went on holiday.
RSA unsuccessfully tried to contact Mr S whilst he was on holiday. When he returned, Mr S 
spoke to RSA and told it he was struggling to find a tradesman. This kicked off an internal 
process within RSA, which led to one of its contractors declining the claim as it didnt think 
the claim was an emergency.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint. She thought RSA was fair in offering Mr S 
the option of getting his own contractor. But, she didnt think RSA had provided a reasonable 
customer service and she thought RSA should deal with the claim. RSA disagreed, so the 
case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since our investigator reviewed the complaint, RSA has dealt with the leak  so, I wont 
consider this part of the complaint as its now been resolved. However, I do think the service 
provided by RSA has fallen below the standard Id expect, so Im upholding this complaint. 
Ill explain why.
I think RSA was slow and ineffective in the initial way it dealt with the call from Mr S. RSA 
failed to respond initially within four hours, which led to Mr S staying up late until the early 
hours of the morning for no reason. I think this is poor service. Even after this failure, when 
Mr S tried to progress the claim the following morning, he had to wait a further four hours 
before getting any resolution. I think the resolution for Mr S to secure his own contractor was 
a fair one and in line with what the policy sets out. However, due to the delays from RSA it 
left Mr S with too smaller a window to secure a tradesman before his holiday. I think the 
failure to get a temporary repair completed before Mr S went on holiday wouldve caused 
him unnecessary distress.
I appreciate RSA tried to progress things whilst Mr S was on holiday. But I dont think its 
unexpected that Mr S chose to ignore calls whilst he was away. He contacted RSA 
immediately on returning home. Unfortunately, this contact with RSA set off a sequence of 
events led to its contractor trying to decline the claim. I think this is unreasonable, given RSA 
had already accepted the claim. I understand RSA has argued why this was, but again all I 
think this does is highlight Mr S poor experience during the claim.
Im pleased RSA has apologised. However, I think it should do more to put things right. For 
the distress and inconvenience caused and explained in my reasoning, I require RSA to pay 
Mr S £100 in compensation. I wouldve expected RSA to set clearer expectations at the first 
contact point. I also think with the looming holiday deadline, RSA shouldve either scheduled 
an appointment the next day with a workman or offered for Mr S to get his own, providing 
him more time to find someone and get the work done.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
Limited to pay Mr S:
£100 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman