DRN-3974143
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) declined a claim 
for storm damage under her home insurance policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, the term RSA includes reference to its agents and 
representatives.
What happened
Miss Bs property suffered damage in February 2022. She contacted RSA and later made an 
insurance claim to it under her policy. It declined the claim following review of photographs 
which Miss B sent, as it said they showed signs of wear and tear and lack of maintenance. It 
concluded that any storm had merely highlighted these issues and that the damage was not 
caused by a one-off event. Following complaint by Miss B, RSA maintained its decision.
Miss B was unhappy that RSA had declined her claim and she referred her complaint to this 
service. The Services investigator upheld Miss Bs complaint. He said that the relevant 
storm was widely reported and had caused substantial damage and he felt that high winds 
could typically have caused damage to this type of property. He discounted the exclusions 
upon which RSA relied as he said they related to contents and not buildings or storm cover. 
In summary, he was persuaded by the evidence provided by Miss B that the damage had 
been caused by a storm event. He considered that RSA needed to reconsider the claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
The investigator also recommended that RSA pay Miss B compensation of £250 as the 
claims process had been unnecessarily delayed by some months, and Miss B had to 
contend with the distress and inconvenience associated with these delays.
RSA disagreed with the investigators decision and the matter has therefore been referred to 
me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether RSA applied the terms and conditions of the 
relevant policy in a fair and reasonable manner by declining Miss Bs claim. I dont consider 
that its acted fairly and reasonably in all respects, and I therefore uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Miss B provided some background information regarding the property. The building had 
been restored in the 1990s and closed as a commercial business in 2011. Her family bought 
the property and associated buildings in 2015. Since then, she said the property had been 
routinely inspected internally and externally and had been continually and comprehensively 
insured. Miss B added that this was the first insurance claim shed made. She emphasised 
that it wasnt a dilapidated or abandoned structure and a cottage, which was permanently 
occupied, formed part of the complex.
In terms of her dealings with RSA, Miss B said shed contacted it by telephone in February 
2022, however she was told that it had no record of her policy. Her insurance broker 
contacted the insurer on her behalf and confirmed the existence of her policy and Miss B 
said that, after multiple calls, she was eventually able to register her claim. When Miss B 
asked for an update on her claim in May 2022, she was informed that the person shed 
spoken to didnt work for the company.
Miss B said that RSA eventually confirmed that her claim had been logged and it asked her 
to send photographs of the damage, a cause of damage report, and quotations for the 
repairs from two separate contractors. Miss B accepted that there was then a delay of 
around eight weeks as she then had to instruct a specialist firm to produce a report and hire 
a drone. She said that it hadnt been possible to obtain a second quote, although she asked 
if RSA could recommend a second contractor. Following automated acknowledgement, Miss 
B said that, at the end of July 2022, RSA informed her that her claim had been declined.
Miss B then didnt receive promised telephone calls. She contacted RSA several times but 
was told there was a technical issue and that it was unable to access its files. In September 
2022, RSA confirmed its decision to decline the claim. Miss B wrote back stating that it was 
only the roof of the structure that had been damaged during the storm and she requested the 
reports which RSAs assessors had used to decline the claim. She said that it hadnt 
undertaken any site visit and so the only information it had was that provided by herself. 
RSA then suggested that Miss B seek an independent report and submit it for consideration. 
Her specialist contractor produced a report in October 2022. RSA responded in November 
2022 to say that it stood by its decision.
In summary, Miss B said that after eight months, shed done everything possible to move the 
claim forward. She didnt believe that RSA was operating in good faith. She added that the 
top section of the roof was now compromised, resulting in internal damage by rain and wind. 
She said that if left unchecked, this would result in catastrophic damage to the internal 
wooden structures. Finally, Miss B said that the process had caused both herself and her 
family immense stress.
As for written evidence, Miss Bs specialist contractor produced photographs of the site and 
the damage, and also produced a report. The contractor referenced damage caused to the 
property by the storm. He said that the wind speed recorded locally hit an excess of 75mph 
during the storm, and he said that this led to a part of the structure snapping, which in turn 
led to damage to other parts of the structure, cladding and protective boarding. This left large 
sections of weatherboarding missing at the rear of and the main structural timbers are now 
exposed to penetrating rainwater. The contractor suggested that temporary weatherproofing 
was essential to prevent any further damage, followed by a series of extensive repairs to the 
roof, weatherboarding, and production and fitting of six new timber structures. The contractor 
said hed been involved with the repairs to another two structures of this type in the same 
part of the country, the damage having being caused by the same storm.
Turning to what RSA has said about this claim, its case notes appeared to confirm that 
relevant weather data provided confirmation of a storm event. It stated that it had reviewed 
all documentation and case notes in conjunction with the relevant policy wording. It accepted 
that the policy covered storm events, however added in common with most, if not all, your 
policy does not provide cover for every eventuality. It said that it was the policyholders 
responsibility to demonstrate that an insured event had occurred and the responsibility of 
the insurer to either accept the claim based on the evidence provided, or to decline the claim, based on any policy exclusions or contradicting evidence that may apply. It quoted 
the exclusion in its policy for damage caused by wear and tear and quoted a part of its policy 
which stated; - we will not pay for: - Damage caused by wear and tear, depreciation, rot and 
gradually operating cause. 
Further parts of the policy which it quoted included the following. Under the heading 
Conditions, it stated: -  an insured person must: maintain the home and all domestic 
equipment in good condition, and carry out or arrange regular inspections and preventative 
maintenance to the fabric and structure of the home. It also stated: - You must take all 
reasonable steps to prevent accidents, loss or damage and must maintain the property 
insured in sound and good repair. RSA stated that following a review of the photographs, 
the property clearly hasnt been maintained, the wood is rotten and show clear signs of wear 
and tear which it said; the recent storms have highlighted. On receipt of the requested 
independent report, RSA didnt alter its decision to decline the claim, as the damage didnt 
occur due to a one-off event. RSAs case notes indicated that the policyholder had accepted 
that there was a lack of maintenance.
Ill now explain the reasoning for this final decision. In considering storm damage, our 
service has a three-step approach. We firstly consider whether storm conditions occurred on 
or around the date the damage was said to have happened. In this case, both parties 
considered that a storm had occurred, with very strong winds being evident. Our investigator 
has looked at the relevant data for the relevant day and area. The data confirms storm force 
conditions in the area at the relevant time.
The second question we consider is whether the damage claimed is consistent with damage 
which a storm typically causes. Again, theres no dispute that roof and structural damage of 
the nature shown in the photographs provided by Miss B would be consistent with damage 
typically caused by a storm, the edge of the roof clearly having been ripped away. Im 
therefore satisfied that the claimed damage is consistent with storm damage.
The third question for determination is the crux of the issue here, and that it whether the 
storm conditions were the main cause of the damage. Were usually guided by what experts 
have to say in this respect. RSA unfortunately hasnt produced a loss adjusters or other 
experts report. Ive therefore considered the report and photographs provided by Miss Bs 
specialist contractor who inspected and was familiar with the property. Whilst brief, I 
consider that the report is clear and persuasive in stating that it was the very high wind 
speeds which had led to part of the structure snapping, which in turn led to damage to other 
parts of the structure, cladding and protective boarding. 
Having said this, I note that RSAs case notes indicated that the policyholder accepted there 
had been a lack of maintenance to the property. This is supported by Miss Bs expert report 
which confirmed that other repairs were being undertaken and Miss Bs candid confirmation 
that there were plans for renovation of the property. The photographic evidence also 
supports that suggestion that the property was showing signs of wear and tear. It is therefore 
likely that a combination of factors led to damage to the roof and the external wooden 
structure. This included the existing state of the property, its distinctive construction, as well 
as the action of a storm event upon the compromised structure. In sumary however, and on 
the balance of probabilities, Im satisfied that the predominant cause of the visible roof 
damage here was the ferocity of the storm event.
In conjunction with this, Ive carefully considered the policy exclusions and conditions 
mentioned by RSA, extracts of which are set out above. I agree with our investigators view 
that some of the provisions relied upon by RSA relate to irrelevant parts of the policy. I 
nevertheless note that there are other provisions which are potentially relevant as follows. Under the heading Settlement of Claims regarding buildings, I note that the policy states: -
If the Buildings are not in good repair or if repair or replacement is not carried out, we will 
at our option pay: a) the cost of repair or replacement less a deduction for wear and tear and 
depreciation, or b) for the reduction in market value caused by the loss or damage Under 
the general conditions, the policy also notes that: - You must take all reasonable steps to 
prevent accidents, loss or damage and must maintain the property insured in sound 
condition and good repair.
In conclusion, I agree with the relevant investigator that RSA didnt apply the wording of the 
relevant policy correctly and therefore didnt decline Miss Bs claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. I conclude that RSA should reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy and on the basis that the storm event was the predominant 
cause of the evidenced roof damage. I also require RSA to pay Miss B compensation of 
£250 for the delays and inconvenience experienced during RSAs handling of this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Miss Bs complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited to do the following in response to the complaint: - 
- reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
within 28 days of Miss Bs acceptance of this decision letter.
- Pay Miss M compensation of £250 again within 28 days of Miss Bs acceptance of 
this decision letter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman