DRN-4370001
The complaint
Ms G complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has avoided her home insurance
policy due to misrepresentation and turned down her claim because of this.
What happened
In April 2022 Ms G took out home insurance cover with Admiral. A few months later she
made a claim after she noticed cracking damage in her property.
Whilst Admiral was looking into the claim, it became aware that Ms G accepted short-term
paying guests at her property. Admiral said Ms G hadnt told it this information and ought to
have done so. It therefore avoided the policy as it said that she had failed to take reasonable
care not to make a misrepresentation. Unhappy with this, Ms G brought a complaint to this
Service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He concluded that Ms G hadnt
misrepresented information when taking out the policy, but thought a misrepresentation was
made when the situation later changed, and that Ms G ought to have told Admiral that she
had paying guests. He was satisfied that Admiral had shown it wouldnt have offered Ms G
cover if it had known that she would be having guests for longer than 90 days in a policy
year, and so concluded that it had been reasonable for Admiral to avoid the policy.
I issued a provisional decision on 13 September 2023. Heres what I said:
As this complaint concerns misrepresentation, Ive considered the matter in accordance with
the principles set out under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act
2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract.
When Ms G took out the policy online, she was asked to check some important statements
and then asked if all of the statements were true. The relevant statement was that the
property does not have paying guests or lodgers living there.
Ms G answered yes to the question that the statements were true. As our investigator has
said, Ms G didnt have any paying guests or lodgers at the property at the time (even though
she intended to in the future). And so her answer was correct. Im therefore satisfied Ms G
did take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. If Admiral had wanted to know if
there would be paying guests or lodgers in the property at all in the policy year, I think the
statement ought to have been clearer about this.
After the policy started, Ms G accepted short-term paying guests. She didnt tell Admiral this.
This wouldnt be considered under CIDRA, as Ive already found there was no
misrepresentation on Ms Gs part when taking out the policy. CIDRA doesnt apply to
changes in circumstances that occur after a policy has started (unless Ms G had contacted
Admiral to tell it about the change in circumstances - then of course she would need to take
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation).
Ive therefore considered whether Ms G had an ongoing duty of disclosure to tell Admiral
about the change in circumstances, according to the policy terms.
The policy says:
Keeping your policy up to date
Your policy documents show the information you have given us. It is important that you tell
us if any of the information is wrong or if the details change during the period of insurance.

IMPORTANT
If you do not tell us about any corrections or changes, this could mean that we do not pay
your claim, we reduce the amount you can claim for, or we declare your policy void (consider
it to have never existed).
You must keep the following details up to date during the period of insurance.
1. Please tell us about the following beforehand.

If you plan to rent out your home or use it as a holiday home
Ms G didnt rent out her entire home, only a room. However, I think a reasonable person
would still consider this to be renting out the home.
Whilst this information was on page 12 of a lengthy policy document, I note that page three
of the policy document made it clear that Ms G needed to tell Admiral if any of the
information shed given changed during the period of insurance, and she should see page 12 
for further information. So Im satisfied this information was clearly highlighted within the 
policy terms.
I also find that the change in circumstances was fundamental to the risk as Ms G was giving
access to her property to people she didnt know. Im therefore satisfied it was reasonable
for Admiral to rely on the above term and therefore Ms G ought to have told Admiral that she
was accepting paying guests.
The next point for me to consider is what Admiral would have done if it had known this
information.
Admiral has provided evidence to show that it would have allowed Ms G to add on host
insurance cover for an additional premium. An endorsement would have then been applied
to her policy to say:
The exclusions contained within your policy documents relating to paying guests do not
apply if the paying guests have arranged to use your home via a dedicated home sharing
website. Subject to the following conditions:
1) Your home is not occupied by paying guests for more than 90 days in any period of
insurance and will be occupied by you for the remainder of the period of insurance.
2) The number of adult paying guests occupying your home at any one time cannot be
more than double the number of bedrooms (for example, no more than 4 adult paying
guests in a 2 bedroom property).
3) The most we will pay for loss or damage to high risk items caused by Theft,
Vandalism or Malicious Acts, or Accidental Damage while your home is occupied by
paying guests is £5,000 or the amount shown on your policy schedule, whichever is
less, unless kept in a locked securely fixed safe or removed from your home.
4) Your home is your permanent (main) residence and not used for the sole purpose of
renting to other people. The paying guest exclusions contained within your policydocuments remain in force if your home is occupied by paying guests who have not
booked via a dedicated home sharing website.
Its not in dispute that Ms G accepted paying guests for more than 90 days in the policy year.
Admiral has provided a statement from its underwriter. This says that Admiral would not
have been able to offer a policy if it had been aware that Ms G was accepting paying guests
and would exceed the 90 days outlined in the endorsement.
However, Ms G says she didnt know she would have paying guests for more than 90 days
in the policy year when she took out the policy. The wording of the endorsement makes it
seem that if an insured didnt comply with the various conditions, then the paying guest
exclusions would apply. It doesnt say that Admiral wouldnt be able to provide cover at all.
If Admiral wasnt willing to offer cover at all when an insured had paying guests, but didnt
hold the additional host insurance, or couldnt meet the host insurance conditions,
presumably thered be no need for the paying guest exclusions in the first place. This means
Im not satisfied Admiral wouldnt have continued to provide the policy for Ms G if she had
told them she was going to have paying guests.
Given that Ms G did accept paying guests for more than 90 days in the policy year, I think
the fairest outcome would be for Admiral to assume that Ms G wouldnt have taken out the
host insurance. Therefore, the paying guest exclusions would apply. Though given that the
claim was for potential subsidence, the paying guest exclusions (which apply to claims for
theft, malicious acts etc) arent relevant here.
I therefore intend to require Admiral to reinstate Ms Gs policy (subject to the repayment of
her premiums if these were previously returned by Admiral) and deal with her claim in line
with the remaining policy terms.
Ive noted Ms Gs point that she has obtained cover elsewhere with a different insurer.
However, when a business does something wrong, the aim of this Service is to place the
consumer back in the position they would have been (as far as possible) if not for the error.
That means Admiral should reinstate Ms Gs policy, and also reimburse her for the higher
costs she paid for the alternative insurance, plus interest. It should also remove any record
of the cancellation or avoidance from its records and any central databases this was added
to.
Its also the case that Admiral would then be required to continue to provide subsidence
cover after any repair is carried out (in line with the ABI guidance on continuation of cover
following a subsidence claim). This wouldnt be the case with Ms Gs current insurer.
I understand a structural engineer has begun investigating the potential subsidence. If Ms G
has paid these costs, then Admiral should reimburse her, plus interest.
I think Ms G has been caused distress and inconvenience by Admirals handling of this
matter. Shes had the worry of potential subsidence continuing to affect her property, and
had to rearrange cover elsewhere. I therefore intend to require Admiral to pay her £350
compensation for this.
Ms G has raised concerns about the way in which Admiral has recorded her claim in the
Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE). This has been recorded as a subsidence claim.
As the claim was for crack damage, I dont think it was unreasonable for Admiral to record
the claim as subsidence. If that turns out not to be the case, then Admiral should update
CUE.I asked both parties for any comments they wished to make before I made a final decision.
Admiral didnt provide any further comments for me to consider. 
Ms G responded to say she accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments for me to consider, I see no reason to 
change my provisional findings. I therefore remain satisfied that this complaint should be 
upheld, and for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited to do the following:
- Reinstate Ms Gs policy (subject to the repayment of any premiums Admiral 
previously returned) and consider the claim in line with the remaining policy terms.
- Reimburse Ms G for the higher premiums she paid for alternative cover, plus 
interest* at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date each payment was made 
to the date of settlement.
- Reimburse Ms G for any costs incurred in hiring a structural engineer or other 
subsidence investigations, plus interest* at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the 
date each payment was made to the date of settlement.
- Pay Ms G £350 compensation.
- Remove any record of the voidance from its records and any central databases.
* If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax
from that interest, it should tell Ms G how much its taken off. It should also give Ms G a
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue &
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman