DRN-3236212
The complaint
M complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) failed to investigate fraudulent transactions 
carried out on their company account.
What happened
M, a limited company, suffered two losses from their account through the impersonation of 
their director Mr T. The funds were removed from a branch by someone pretending to be Mr 
T and using details of his driving licence and a copy of his signature to withdraw funds from 
the account. 
Once M realised this had taken place they contacted BoS about the withdrawals. BoS looked 
into what had happened and noted a suspicious call had taken place about ten days prior to 
the branch visit and they determined that M had been the victim of fraud. BoS refunded all 
the losses back to M.
M remained unhappy with how BoS had handled the situation and explained they were told 
the CCTV of the incident would be provided.  M complained to BoS who accepted theyd let 
M down and made a payment of £112 including £12 for costs associated with phone calls.
M then brought their complaint to our service for an independent review where it was looked 
into by one of our investigators. They thought that overall, BoS had accepted theyd let M 
down, fully refunded the losses and made a reasonable payment for compensation for how 
the situation was handled. Our investigator did think that BoS could have been more 
proactive after they received a suspicious call linked to the account but didnt uphold Ms 
complaint.
M disagreed with the investigators outcome and remained concerned that there was a 
suggestion that Mr Ts driving licence was used to make the withdrawal and the signature 
was unlike his original one hed provided when he opened the account. M continued to be 
unhappy with how BoS had handled the situation and wanted further explanations about 
what had gone on in the branch.
M commented that they never used branch visits to conduct any withdrawals and there was 
no debit card issued for the account.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M suffered losses to their account through the impersonation of their director, Mr T. In such 
cases Id expect BoS to investigate the claim and refund the losses as soon as possible. The 
records indicate that M had their funds returned within about ten days of the loss and I think 
that BoS acted appropriately and reasonable by refunding the losses. 
M were under the impression that BoS were going to provide the CCTV of the branch visit to 
enable them to identify who removed the funds. BoS couldnt find any record of this and 
explained that they wouldnt normally provide CCTV to their customers in such situations, 
but they would provide it to the police for any criminal investigation. Whether M were told 
theyd receive it or not, they were under the impression that BoS were going to provide it and 
the resulting lack of information received by M was no doubt frustrating.
Ms director, Mr T was concerned about the possibility that his driving licence had been used 
to impersonate him and he later confirmed that he was in possession of it. BoSs records 
dont include a copy of what was used, just a driving licence number, so its not clear what 
was presented to the branch. As Mr T still has his original licence, I think it was probably a 
counterfeit copy that was presented to the branch. 
A copy of Mr Ts signature was used, in part, to authorise the withdrawal of the funds. Mr T 
was unhappy that the branch accepted it as he thinks it doesnt look like his genuine one. I 
havent been able to examine in detail what happened during the visit by Mr Ts 
impersonator, because face to face visits arent recorded in detail. But, BoS were satisfied at 
the time that the withdrawal followed their processes, including a comparison of the 
signatures. Its now apparent that the impersonator managed to satisfy BoSs procedures 
leading to the loss of the funds. My role here is to determine the outcome of Ms complaint 
and not to comment generally on how BoS organise their withdrawal process within the 
branch. What happened here appears to be how the withdrawal process was handled by the 
branch staff, rather than the process itself. 
Its understandable that M would be concerned after being the victims of such a loss. M still 
have concerns about this, and the level of attention given to the security around their 
account. M still think that BoSs procedures were effectively unfit for purpose. But, BoS 
made a refund and accepted the loss themselves whilst compensating M for the lack of 
service and what I think was probably a misunderstanding about the provision of CCTV.
I appreciate M wants a more detailed investigation of what went on that day. But, BoS have 
already looked into the matter and provided their response. The issue of whether the branch 
took enough care at the time has already been accepted by BoS with their refund and 
compensatory payment to M. BoS also increased their security precautions for Ms account. 
Ultimately though, it wasnt BoS who stole Ms funds, it was a criminal impersonating Mr T.
So, whilst I accept M remains unsatisfied with what BoS did at the time and how they 
handled their investigation, I dont think their response after the event was unreasonable. I 
think the refund and additional payment to M for their inconvenience and how the situation 
was handled was appropriate, including the payment for phone calls. BoS also offered to 
cover any other costs incurred by M. I dont think BoS have to do anything more and I wont 
be upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman