DRN-4039295
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt refunded the money he lost when he 
bought some furniture that was of poor quality. 
What happened
Mr A says that he moved house and was looking to buy quality furniture to go in it. He came 
across a company Ill refer to in this decision as B and checked reviews. Mr A decided to use 
B to have furniture imported from abroad and made two faster payments to B as follows:
Date Amount
06/05/22 £2,660.64
20/06/22 £3,990.96
Total £6,651.60
Mr A says he expected to pay by card, but B told him this wasnt possible and inundated him 
with calls and messages pressurising him to make the payments saying, there was limited 
availability. 
When the sofas arrived, Mr A says they were in a poor condition. Mr A contacted Lloyds on 
16 July 2022 and said the sofas arrived dirty and damaged and B wasnt replying to him. 
Lloyds considered Mr As complaint but decided he has a civil dispute, so it was unable to 
raise a scam claim. But Lloyds agreed it provided Mr A with incorrect information and paid 
him £100 in respect of this and £60 to cover the cost of his calls to Lloyds. 
Mr A wasnt happy with Lloyds response. He would like Lloyds to refund the amount he has 
lost and to pay him compensation for the stress the loss has caused him. Mr A says Lloyds 
should have intervened as the payments were unusual and should have advised him to use 
a different payment method that offered him some protection.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. She said 
that Mr A had a civil dispute with B and so the CRM Code doesnt apply. This was because 
B is a legitimate business, Mr A received a sofa - but it wasnt to the standard he expected - 
and the receiving bank had no concerns about the use of the account. The investigator 
couldnt see any other reason why Lloyds should refund Mr A and noted the compensation it 
had paid was fair. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings and so his complaint has been passed to 
me to consider. In summary, he said:
- Lloyds didnt warn him that bank transfers dont offer the same protection as card 
payments. If Lloyds had told him chargeback doesnt apply to transfers, he wouldnt 
have lost money. 
- The seller put a lot of pressure on him to make the payments which should have 
raised alarm bells for Lloyds and the bank that received the funds. 
- He still believes he was the victim of a scam. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute, I reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  
in other words on what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence 
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Im sorry to hear that Mr A has lost money in these circumstances. The Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) applies where a customer has been a victim of an 
authorised push payment (APP) scam. Under the CRM Code, an APP scam is defined as:
 a transfer of fundswhere 
(i) The Customer intended to transfer funds to another person, but was instead 
deceived into transferring the funds to a different person; or 
(ii)The Customer transferred funds to another person for what they believed were 
legitimate purposes but which were in fact fraudulent. 
The CRM Code is quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments though. It says: 
This Code does not apply to: (b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid 
a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not received them, they 
are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
I have made certain words in the quotation above bold to highlight their importance to this 
case. 
So, the CRM Code isnt a general protection for consumers and does not cover situations 
where a customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods or services that do not meet their 
expectations. This amounts to a potential breach of contract which is a civil issue. 
B has been registered at Companies House since 2021 and continues to be registered. It 
has a website showing the products it offers and also has a showroom in this country as well 
as showrooms abroad. Its website shows various quality certificates and Mr A says he saw 
good reviews before deciding to buy furniture from B.  
Ive also seen confidential information from Bs bank. I cant share any details with Mr A, but 
the information leads me to think its more likely than not that B was a legitimate supplier. It 
seems to me that the account was being used for normal business expenditure when Mr A 
made payments to B. Overall, I dont consider Mr A was induced to make payments for 
fraudulent purposes. 
Mr A says that B put pressure on him to make payments and tricked him into making 
payments by faster payment. Im not persuaded these points mean Mr A was induced to 
transfer funds for fraudulent purposes (as required by the CRM Code to meet the definition 
of an APP scam). 
Mr A thinks Lloyds should be responsible for his loss because it didnt advise him to use an 
alternative method of payment that would have provided him with some protection if anything 
went wrong. Lloyds has provided evidence that when Mr A made the payments, he chose 
the buying goods payment reason and was provided with a warning which said:
[Mr As name], pay by card
Its a safer way to pay.
If you cant pay by card, its often a scam.
Find out how to stay safe from scams on our Fraud Hub. There is a link to the fraud hub. In the buying online section it says,
The safest way to buy online is with your bank or credit card. Your card will help to protect 
your money should anything go wrong.
Im satisfied the warning provided to Mr A went far enough. I also note that Mr A advised this 
service that B told him it wasnt possible to pay by card so it seems Mr A couldnt have used 
this payment method. 
Mr A has also said that Lloyds should have noticed he was making unusual and out of 
character transactions and taken steps to protect him. Im not persuaded the transactions 
were so unusual that Lloyds ought reasonably to have intervened. The amounts werent very 
high (although I recognise the loss has had a big impact on Mr A) and the payments were 
made around six weeks apart so did not fit the pattern often seen when scam payments are 
made. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whilst banks have obligations 
to act in their customers best interests, they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.  
I turn now to the service provided to Mr A. Its clear Lloyds didnt handle this case well and 
gave Mr A misleading advice about raising a dispute. Mr A also spent a lot of time on the 
phone to Lloyds. But Im satisfied that the total payment already made by Lloyds in 
recognition of its failings is fair, so Im not making an award. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman