DRN-4303287
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Revolut Ltd loaded a Cifas marker against her name.
Background
Miss A had an account with Revolut. On 12 May 2022, £999.74 was deposited into that 
account. Three minutes later, those funds were transferred to a third party. On 24 May, the 
person whod made that initial deposit alleged that theyd fallen victim to a scam.  Miss A 
says she doesnt know either the person who deposited the funds into her account or the 
person they were sent to. She says she has had no involvement in making these payments. 
She says that someone has managed to take control of her account and make the payments 
without her knowledge or consent.
Revolut looked into things and decided to close Miss As account and load a Cifas marker 
against her name. Miss A was unhappy with that and so she brought her complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Adjudicator who didnt uphold it. The Adjudicator thought the 
evidence suggests it was most likely Miss A had some involvement in the transfer of those 
funds and so Revolut hadnt acted unreasonably by loading the Cifas marker. 
Miss A didnt agree with the Adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to 
me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question I must consider here is whether Revolut acted fairly and reasonably in loading 
a marker with Cifas. The National Fraud Database Principles set a high standard that a firm 
must meet if it wants to load adverse information against a customers name. It says that in 
order to do so: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted  [and]  The evidence must be clear, 
relevant and rigorous such that the member could confidently report the conduct of 
the subject to the police. 
The onus is on Revolut to demonstrate that this standard has been met. Ive considered the 
evidence provided by both sides and Im satisfied that it has done so here
On 12 May 2022, Miss As account received fraudulent funds and was then used to transfer 
them on to another account. The key question therefore is whether this was done with her 
involvement.
Revolut has provided us with evidence that shows that each device used to manager Miss 
As account is assigned a unique identifying code. This shows that the device that was used 
to move those funds was the same one used by Miss A to create her account and that, 
during the relevant period, there was no other device controlling the account. Its records also 
show that the outbound payments were authorised by way of a one-time passcode (OTP) 
which was sent to the phone number associated with the account. Theres no indication that 
the phone number changed from the one that was associated with the account on the date it 
was opened, so its more likely than not that the code was sent to Miss As phone.
Miss A hasnt been able to explain how a third-party couldve taken possession of her phone 
and known the security credentials for both the phone and her Revolut app. Shes said that 
some of her close friends would know the passcode for her phone, but she hasnt been able 
to explain how any of them couldve used her phone on 12 May 2022 without her knowing. 
I know that Miss A insists that she wasnt responsible for this account activity. However, I 
have to decide the case based on the available evidence. And that evidence suggests its 
more likely than not that Miss A was involved in moving fraudulent funds through her 
account. In view of that, I think its reasonable for Revolut to have loaded a Cifas marker.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman