DRN-2786308
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T  on behalf of their company which Ill refer to as B  have complained that 
Accelerant Insurance Limited declined a claim they made for fire damage to their business 
premises.
What happened
B holds a commercial insurance policy underwritten by Accelerant. In September 2020 Bs 
premises was damaged by a fire which started in the range cooker on site.
Mr and Mrs T  on behalf of B  raised a claim with Accelerant for the damage caused by 
the fire, the resulting interruption to their business and deterioration of some of their stock, all 
of which are covered by their policy, subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions.
Accelerant instructed a forensic expert to inspect the premises to determine the cause of the 
fire. The forensic experts report concluded the likely cause of the fire was an inadequate 
level of oil in the right-hand pan of the range cooker.
Based on the forensic experts report and conclusions, Accelerant declined Bs claim under 
an exclusion in the policy for the level of frying medium in the cooker. Mr and Mrs T have 
complained that the evidence relied on to decline the claim is circumstantial. They feel its 
unfair for a loss of this size to be declined based on the information available. Theyve also 
suggested that the policy was mis-sold to them as the exclusion used to decline their claim 
wasnt properly explained when they took out the policy.
One of our investigators looked into Bs complaint. He explained why he was persuaded by 
the forensic report that the most likely cause of the fire was an inadequate level of fat in the 
cooker. Based on this, he thought Accelerants decision to decline Bs claim was in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy, and that it was fair in the circumstances of this case. 
He also explained that before our service could consider a complaint about the policy being 
mis-sold, B would need to make a complaint about this to the business which sold him the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs T  on behalf of B  didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because no 
agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so  while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs T  
Ive reached the same conclusions reached by our investigator. Ill explain my reasoning in 
more detail below.
In order for a claim for businesses interruption to be covered, the claim for damage caused 
by the fire also needs to be covered. 
Accelerant declined Bs claim for the damage caused by the fire as it says the below 
condition applies to the circumstances of the loss:
Operation of Deep Fat Frying & Cooking Equipment Condition
It is a condition precedent to the Insurers liability, in respect of any deep fat frying 
range, frying or cooking equipment that

q. Pans in the frying range or deep fat fryer contain an adequate amount of frying or 
cooking medium at all times
Following the fire Accelerant instructed a loss adjuster to visit the premises and assess the 
claim on its behalf. The loss adjuster appointed a forensic expert specialising in fire damage 
to assist with this process. This is what I would expect to see for a claim of this nature. 
Accelerant reached its decision on Bs claim based on the findings of its forensic experts 
report which stated:
1. The physical evidence is entirely consistent with a pan fire in the right-most pan 
of the Florigo frying range. 
2. There is no physical evidence to indicate that the fire was due to defective 
components of the range. 
3. The fire was probably caused by the operation of the pan with insufficient cooking 
fat to enable the proper operation of its temperature controllers. 
4. The inadequate level of cooking fat was possibly due to inadvertent drainage 
during use, either by the unintended operation of a drainage valve or a failure to fully 
close the drainage valve after last refilling the pan. 
5. The proximity of combustibles to the extraction ductwork did not comply with the 
Insurers policy but the issue might not have significantly increased the extent of the 
damage. 
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that Accelerant has declined the claim based on this report. They 
say the evidence is circumstantial at best and the forensic expert told them during his 
investigation that there could be several possible causes. Theyve explained that they had 
issues with the cooker since they purchased the business and needed to get the pan in 
question replaced by the manufacturer. And theyve highlighted that their shop manager was 
very experienced, so they dont think its likely he would not leave enough oil in the cooker 
pan.
I should explain here that my role isnt to determine, beyond a reasonable doubt, what 
caused the fire at Bs premises. What I need to decide is whether the claim decision reached 
by Accelerant was fair and reasonable, taking into account the evidence it had. The test Ive 
used to reach my decision is the balance of probabilities - ie what do I think is more likely, 
based on the evidence available. I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ts concerns as the forensic report doesnt definitively state that the 
fire was caused by an inadequate level of fat in the cooker. However, I do find the 
conclusions in the report persuasive. I say this because the forensic expert hasnt only 
considered one potential cause. Instead he has considered several and weighed them 
against each other to determine which was most likely. 
For example, the forensic expert considered the possibility that a defect with the cooker was 
responsible and noted that the pan where the fire started had recently undergone repairs for 
a crack. But he concluded that this was unlikely to be the cause as there was no evidence of 
oil leakage beneath the cooker  which would be expected had the pan been leaking.
In addition, the forensic expert considered whether a defect with the temperature controller 
could have caused the fire. And while he couldnt conclusively rule it out, he gave several 
reasons why he considered the level of fat in the cooker to be the most likely cause. 
The forensic expert explained that the pan where the fire started was found to contain only a 
residual quantity of charred cooking fat. He noted that if the pan had contained the minimum 
level, a depth of 7 cm of cooking fat, totalling approximately 16 litres, would have needed to 
have burned away before the fire in the pan was extinguished. But the fire was tackled within 
minutes of discovery by an employee at the restaurant next door and the Fire Service 
attended the premises to fully extinguish the fire within six minutes of being called. He 
concluded that its unlikely the fire burned away this amount of cooking fat before being 
extinguished  which supports his conclusion that the pan didnt have an adequate amount 
of fat in to start with.
The forensic expert further added to this by explaining that in pan fires where there is an 
adequate level of cooking fat, the fat often protects the sides of the pan from charring and 
damage, resulting in the pan being comparatively clean below the level of the fat. But in this 
case, the expert stated that the sides of the pan showed signs of heat damage and charring 
below the minimum level indicator  again indicating that there wasnt an adequate level of 
fat in the pan.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr and Mrs T have said in response to our 
investigators opinion. But taking everything into account, Im most persuaded by the report 
and conclusions provided by the forensic expert. On balance, I think the most likely cause of 
the fire was the operation of the pan without an adequate amount of oil to enable the 
temperature controllers to operate effectively. And as Ive stated, Bs policy contained a 
specific condition covering this.
Ultimately, I think Accelerant investigated Bs complaint as I would have expected it to. And 
taking into account the evidence available, I think the decision it reached was both in line 
with the policy terms and conditions, and fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances 
of this complaint.
In addition to the claims for damage caused by the fire and the resulting interruption to Bs 
business, Ive considered whether the claim for deterioration of stock should be covered. 
The policy covers loss, destruction or damage to frozen foodstuffs as a result of a change in 
temperature due to an accident or failure of the power supply. In this case there wasnt an 
accident which directly caused the change in temperature or a failure of the power supply. 
Instead, the power was deliberately switched off, which is specifically excluded under the 
deterioration of stock cover. So, I think Accelerants decision not to accept or settle this part 
of Bs claim was fair and reasonable too.My final decision
For the reasons I've explained above, I dont uphold Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman