DRN-1727788
The complaint
Mr B complains about a default that was applied to a credit card account he held with MBNA 
Limited.
What happened
Mr B held three credit card accounts with MBNA. However, this complaint relates to 
accounts ending 1291 and 2521.
In November 2018, Mr B got in contact with MBNA to let it know that he was struggling 
financially. During the call, the representative of MBNA completed an income and 
expenditure report with Mr B so it could get a better understanding as to what he could afford 
to pay monthly. It was at this point that MBNA discovered that Mr Bs outgoings were more 
than what he had coming in. So, MBNA let Mr B know that it wasnt expecting him to make 
any payments towards the credit card accounts and that it wouldnt collect his direct debits. It 
also let Mr B know that it wouldnt charge him any interest on the balance, and it wouldnt 
charge him any late payment or over limit fees. 
Mr B didnt make any payments to account 2521 from October 2018 and 1291 from 
November 2018. But in March 2019 Mr B paid the arrears on account number 2521 by direct 
debit. Account number 1291 wasnt brought up to date and so MBNA applied a default to the 
account on 26 April 2019. This account was then repaid in full on 20 May 2019. 
Mr B complains that MBNA applied a default to his account  and that he wasnt aware it 
was going to do this. He says he didnt get any of the default notices MBNA sent to him 
because the letters were sent to an incorrect address. He feels this is unfair  especially as it 
was only one of his accounts that defaulted, and so MBNA ought to have realised that there 
could be a problem. Hes also said hes unhappy that when he let MBNA know about his 
financial difficulties, it only offered to freeze the interest on his account and didnt offer him a 
payment holiday  which is what he wanted. Mr B also says that MBNA hasnt taken his 
personal situation into account when deciding not to remove the default. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B. They didnt think that MBNA had acted unfairly 
when it applied to default to one of his accounts. 
Mr B disagreed. He didnt feel that he had been treated fairly by MBNA. Mainly in that it 
should have done more to contact him before it applied the default to his account. And it 
should have done more to help him when he was in financial difficulty.
Because Mr B didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint and so I wont be asking MBNA to do 
anything to put things right. I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to 
Mr B, but Ill explain my reasons for doing so in more detail below.
Firstly, Id like to start by saying that Im very sorry to have read about Mr Bs personal 
situation. Its clear that things have been very difficult for him over the past few years. And 
this has understandably impacted on his mental health. In reaching my conclusion, I dont 
wish in any way to downplay or disregard the situation Mr B has found himself in. Ive no 
doubt he has been through a truly horrible time. And Im sure when he found out that MBNA 
had applied a default to his account, this only made a bad situation worse. 
But being independent means, I have to take a step back and consider what both 
parties have said. And I have to look to see if MBNA has acted fairly and reasonably when it 
applied the default. And whether it treated him positively and sympathetically when Mr B 
notified it of the financial difficulties he was experiencing.
Did MBNA do enough to help Mr B when he was experiencing financial difficulties?
A lender has a responsibility to ensure that when it is notified by the borrower that they are 
experiencing financial difficulties, then it should treat them positively and sympathetically. 
So, to put things simply a lender should treat a consumer in financial difficulties fairly.
Generally, a lender is expected to listen to a borrower, get an understanding of their 
individual circumstances and discuss what help is appropriate.
Ive listened to the call Mr B had with MBNA in November 2018  this is the first time Mr B 
made it aware that he was having difficulty making repayments. Ive heard that MBNA 
assessed his income and expenditure  and after having done this it became aware that Mr 
Bs outgoings were more than what he had coming in  and so he wouldnt be able to make 
repayments to the accounts. 
MBNA let Mr B know that although it would continue to write to him to say that a minimum 
repayment was due, it wasnt expecting Mr B to make a payment. To help Mr B, it said that it 
would freeze the interest on the account, and it wouldnt apply any charges to the account 
either. 
Mr B doesnt understand how the freeze in interest would help him. And hes said that he just 
wanted a payment holiday. By freezing the interest, this means that Mr Bs balance wouldnt 
continue to increase each month  so he wouldnt be paying any further interest on the 
outstanding balances, and no charges would be added either. Mr B has said that he wanted 
a payment holiday. But MBNA let him know that after assessing his financial situation, it 
wasnt expecting him to make a payment to either of the accounts. I can see that Mr B didnt 
make a payment to either account from October 2018 (2521) and November 2018 (1291) 
until March 2019 and May 2019 respectively.
I can also see that when MBNA wrote to Mr B about what it had agreed during the 
November 2018 phone call, it also directed Mr B to third party debt charities for help.
Based on the above, I think MBNA did what it could to try and help Mr B after it became 
aware, he was struggling financially, and so I cant agree with Mr Bs comments that MBNA 
were unhelpful.
Did MBNA do what it needed to do to communicate the default to Mr B?When Mr B spoke to MBNA in November 2018, he updated his address. Looking at MBNAs 
internal notes, I can see it made these changes on its system. On the call, Mr B was also 
made aware that, while MBNA wasnt expecting a payment to the account, if he wasnt able 
to make the monthly minimum repayment then his account could default.
After the call, MBNA sent Mr B a letter with details of the call and what would happen next, 
this also confirmed that if Mr B didnt keep up with repayments then his account may default.
MBNA sent Mr B a notice of default letter on 24 February 2019. This letter was sent to the 
address Mr B had given it in November 2018. Im satisfied that it was sent to the address Mr 
B had given it because Ive seen notes from MBNAs internal systems to reflect this, and the 
letter is addressed to the address Mr B gave MBNA during the call. Ive also seen that the 
letter was returned to MBNA because it was notified that Mr B no longer lived at that 
address. MBNA has shown me information from its internal systems to show that it sent Mr B 
text messages on 8 April 2019, 16 April 2019 and 22 April 2019, which notified him of the 
return mail. Ive not seen anything on MBNAs records to show Mr B responded to these text 
messages.
This service has been in touch with MBNA to find out if Mr B contacted it to update his 
address after November 2018. MBNA has confirmed it didnt receive any contact from Mr B 
until May 2019 (by which time the account 1291 had already defaulted). Because Mr B didnt 
update his address, Im not going to hold MBNA responsible for Mr B not receiving the 
default notice  its reasonable to expect that Mr B should tell the MBNA when he changes 
address. And it is also part of the terms and conditions of Mr Bs account that he keeps his 
personal contact details up to date.
Irrespective of whether or not Mr B received a default notice, I need to think about whether 
he ought reasonably to have known his account was in default. And I think he should. Mr B 
was told during the phone call in November 2018 that his account could default if he didnt 
keep up with the repayments. This was also confirmed in the letter it sent to him after the 
phone conversation. MBNA did try to contact Mr B by text message to say it had received 
returned mail but didnt receive a reply to its text messages. So the postal address it had for 
Mr B wasnt current, and he didnt reply to its text messages. Given that, I think its fair to say 
MBNA did try and reach Mr B to make him aware he was likely going to be defaulted.
Mr B ought to have known payments hadnt been made for several months, and so it was 
possible that a default would be registered against him if he didnt make a payment to bring 
the account up to date.
For the reasons Ive stated above, I think MBNA did what it needed to do in communicating 
with Mr B about the default. And I cant hold MBNA responsible for Mr B not updating his 
address or not getting in touch with it to bring the account back up to date when he should 
have known he missed several months repayments.
Should the default have been applied to Mr Bs credit card account?
Looking at the information sent by MBNA, I can see that for account ending 1291 the last 
payment Mr B made to this account was in November 2018. The default was then applied to 
the account on 26 April 2019. And Mr B repaid the account in full on 20 May 2019. Mr B 
missed five payments in this time.
Initially, when MBNA spoke to Mr B in November 2018, it let him know that if he didnt make 
the minimum repayment to the account, the account would default after he had missed 
seven repayments. But in December 2018, MBNA sent Mr B a notice of variation letter. This 
letter let Mr B know that MBNA had now been taken over by a different banking group and so some of the terms and conditions of the account had changed  the changes were due to 
take place from February 2019. I cant see that the variation notice specifically states how 
many repayments would need to be missed before MBNA would consider applying a default. 
But it does state that missed payments could have severe consequences  its given an 
example of this being that it may report negative information to the credit reference 
agencies, which could make it difficult to get credit in the future.  
The ICO (Information Commissioners Office) has guidance as to when a default should be 
applied to an account. The ICO states that a default should be applied to an account when at 
least three months payments have been missed. And it would expect a default to be 
registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. So, I dont 
consider the change to have unfairly disadvantaged Mr B. 
I have noted that the default was applied after five missed payments, rather than the seven 
missed payments MBNA originally told Mr B. And I can see why Mr B would think this unfair. 
But given the ICO guidance allows for defaults to be registered within this time, and he was 
made aware of some changes, it doesnt seem unreasonable. Ive also not seen anything to 
suggest Mr B contacted MBNA again to query this issue after he was told about the 
changes. And Mr B did update his direct debit, but this was returned unpaid. In addition, its 
Mr Bs responsibility to ensure the payments are being made.
I can see that Mr B set up a direct debit on the 1291 account on 23 March 2019. And on 5 
April 2019 MBNA attempted to collect the minimum payment due, which was £831.18. The 
direct debit was returned as unpaid by Mr Bs bank. And so, the default was applied on 26 
April 2019.
As Ive explained, Mr B missed five payments to this credit card account before the default 
was applied, and so I think MBNA acted fairly when it applied to the default. 
Mr B has another credit card account with MBNA, ending 2521. This account didnt default. 
Mr B says that he was paying this account all along and so MBNA should have been aware 
of a problem and that it was clearly a mistake that payments on the other account were 
missed. Ive looked at the payment history for this account. I can see that payments stopped 
being made to this account from October 2018. When Mr B reset the direct debits in March 
2019, MBNA were able to collect the minimum payment due on this account. And so, this 
account was brought back up to date and didnt default.
I appreciate that Mr B had been going through a very tough time. But I have to consider 
whether MBNA acted fairly  and I think it did. MBNA has a duty to report information to the 
credit reference agencies that is accurate. This is because other lenders use this information 
to decide whether or not they want to lend to a borrower  so its important that any 
information that is recorded is a true reflection of how the account has been managed.
It's clear from the call Mr B had with MBNA in November 2018 that his credit report was a 
concern to him. He was told during this call that if he missed payments these would be 
reported to the credit reference agencies. And that if he was able to continue to make 
repayments to the account (the monthly minimum amount due) then his credit report 
wouldnt be affected. Mr B was told that his direct debit would be cancelled and if he wanted 
to make repayments, he would need to manually do this. But no repayments were received 
after this call. 
Because Mr B had missed five payments. And when the direct debit was set up to collect the 
repayment this was returned as unpaid, I think MBNA were right to apply the default. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman