DRN-3073033
The complaint
Mr C complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) declined a claim for 
damage to a shower room, under his fathers building insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C noticed staining to the ceiling beneath his fathers shower room. He contacted RSA 
and it sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. The company said there was a leak resulting 
from missing grout around the shower room drain.
RSA says its policy doesnt cover damage to the shower room. In addition, it says the policy 
excludes wear and tear, which it says is the cause of the missing grout. Mr C said the 
damage could have been caused by his father falling. RSA considered a claim under 
accidental damage, but again declined this on the basis the damage was caused by wear 
and tear. 
Mr C disagreed. He says he was told by RSA that grouting required maintenance every 12 
months, which he thought was unreasonable. He referred his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the company had shown a valid exclusion 
applied and so had acted fairly when declining the claim. 
Mr C was unhappy with this outcome and says the membrane beneath the tiles had likely 
been damaged from his fathers fall. The investigator didnt think there was evidence to 
support this and didnt change her view. Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. The matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold this complaint. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr C, but I will explain why I think this is fair. 
Mr C did complain to RSA about the policy being mis-sold. However, RSA didnt sell the 
policy, and this didnt form part of its complaint investigation. I wont be considering this point 
here. 
Turning to his claim for damage, its the responsibility of the policyholder to prove they have 
a valid claim under an insured event. If this is done the insurer must pay the claim unless it 
can rely on one of the policy exclusions. 
The buildings section of the policy terms and conditions says:
You are insured against the loss or damage caused by the following events:
Escape of water from, or the freezing of water in washing machines, dishwashers or any 
fixed domestic water or heating installation.
RSA confirms it has covered Mr C for the ceiling damage resulting from the escape of water.   
The policy exclusion relied upon by RSA regarding the damage to the shower room says:
Exclusions: Damage caused to the installation or appliance that brought about the escape 
of water.
RSA says the shower room is classed as fixed domestic water installation. I think this is fair. 
The company says that this means damage to the shower room is not covered by its policy.
The company also refers to a lack of maintenance and wear and tear causing the damage to 
the grout. 
The surveyors report refers to the Natural breakdown of materials and include photos of 
the tiles surrounding the shower room drain. RSA says its surveyor indicated the missing 
grout is the cause of the leak, which is the result of a lack of maintenance and wear and tear. 
The policy terms exclude:
Any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or resulting from wear 
and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting, damp, insects, vermin, fungus, condensation, 
fading, frost or anything which happens gradually, the process of cleaning, dyeing, repair, 
alteration, renovation or restoration. 
Ive looked at the photos. I can see that there are missing sections of grout in the area close 
to the shower room drain. Based on these photos and the expert opinion of the surveyor  I 
think RSAs explanation of the grout being the cause of the leak is persuasive.
I note Mr C says the shower room is around three years old and the grout shouldnt need 
replacing within this time. RSA suggests this is something he could raise with the contractor 
who did the work but doesnt accept this means the claim is covered. 
I can empathise with Mr Cs view that the grout shouldnt have failed within three years. But 
Im satisfied the exclusion relied upon by RSA applies here.  
I have thought about Mr Cs claim that the damage was the result of his father falling. This 
would come under an accidental damage claim. I note the policy does include this cover. 
RSA says the damage its surveyor reported is not consistent with an impact. It says a 
ceramic tile would likely crack on impact rather than, the grout crumbling away. 
I have thought about whether the impact of a fall could have damaged the grout resulting in 
the leak. The surveyors report points to the natural breakdown of materials as the cause. I 
must rely on expert opinion where this is available. This doesnt indicate damage was 
caused by an impact. I also think RSAs view is reasonable that tiles would likely be 
damaged as a result of the impact from someone falling. There is no visible damage to the 
tiles around the drain.  
Mr C has since suggested the problem is with a damaged membrane under the shower 
room tiles. However, he hasnt supplied information to support this.
Finally, I understand a compensation payment for £50 was provided to Mr C by RSA for a 
delay in handling the complaint. Handling complaints is not a regulated activity in itself. 
Whilst Im sorry to hear about the delay Mr C experienced in obtaining a response through 
RSAs complaints process, I cant consider this point.In summary, based on the available information I am satisfied RSA has shown the damage 
claimed by Mr C is excluded by its policy terms. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman