The complaint
Mr W complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his policy of 
insurance when his new motorbike was stolen. It said he had misrepresented whether the 
motorbike had an immobiliser. 
What happened
Mr W bought a new motorbike that he was awaiting delivery of.  He arranged insurance 
online with MCE. He called MCE as he only had the option to include one security device 
and didn't know whether he could add to this. The call handler went through the policy set up 
process with him and agreed to insure him. 
Around a month later Mr W's motorbike was stolen. He submitted a claim. During MCE's 
investigation it discovered the bike didn't have an immobiliser. It said Mr W had 
misrepresented this security feature and so avoided the policy. Mr W complained, he said he 
didn't say he had an immobiliser and when the statement of fact came through it had 
recorded security as unspecified - it didn't make clear he should update MCE once the 
motorbike had arrived. 
MCE agreed it had got things wrong. Although it still felt Mr W had misrepresented the 
position, it wasn't qualifying - which means MCE would have insured Mr W on the same 
terms and for the same price regardless of whether he'd had an immobiliser or not.  It 
therefore upheld the complaint and agreed to reconsider the claim. Ultimately it made him a 
settlement offer which Mr W wasn't happy with (a separate complaint).
Our investigator upheld the complaint. Although MCE had overturned its decision to avoid 
the policy, this had caused Mr W distress and inconvenience at a time when his new 
motorbike had just been stolen. So she asked MCE to pay Mr W £100. It asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman. It said it had overturned the avoidance decision 
quickly and doesn't think compensation is warranted. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do think Mr W made a misrepresentation when taking out the insurance. When asked 
whether he had an alarm or immobiliser he answered "errr.... I think so yeah, it's got an 
immobiliser yeah.". That wasn't correct, although I don't think Mr W misled MCE deliberately 
or recklessly. At most, I think Mr W was careless; he could have explained he didn't know 
rather than answering what he thought was correct.
DRN-1229264MCE is only able to make changes to the policy, or avoid it, if any misrepresentation is 
qualifying; that it would have insured on different terms, different price or wouldn't have 
insured at all. MCE acknowledges it would still have provided cover for Mr W regardless of 
whether the motorbike had an immobiliser or not. So its good to see MCE overturn the 
decision to avoid the policy and that it did so relatively quickly. 
But I can't ignore that Mr W was already in a stressful situation. His brand new motorbike, 
his means of getting to work, had been stolen. To then be told there was no insurance cover 
would have been particularly worrying. It was only as a result of Mr W complaining that this 
error was discovered. So Mr W was put to additional distress and inconvenience over and 
above that caused by the theft. Although MCE discovered the error relatively quickly, I'm 
satisfied Mr W was caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience and as a result he 
should be fairly compensated. In all the circumstances, I find £100 to be a fair reflection of 
the impact this had.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. I require MCE Insurance Company Limited to 
pay Mr W £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman