DRN-4073269
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs N have complained about various administrative issues relating to a mortgage 
account they used to hold with Mortgage Express (ME). They would like ME to compensate 
them for its poor service, errors and financial losses.
What happened
The history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, and in the investigators letter 
dated 6 April 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no need for me to repeat 
the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, 
our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead 
to Mr B and Mrs N being identified. Therefore, for all these reasons, I will not repeat the 
history of the case here, as its not necessary to do so. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint follows an earlier complaint in which there was an ombudsmans jurisdiction 
decision dated 5 November 2021 and another ombudsmans final decision on the merits 
dated 9 December 2022. I will therefore make no further comment about any of the issues in 
that complaint, save in response to points numbered 8 and 10 below. 
I will explain first that the Financial Ombudsman Service is independent of both consumers 
and the businesses they are complaining about. This means that we dont act for 
consumers, nor do we take instructions either from consumers or businesses, or allow either 
party to direct the course of our investigations; were we to do so, it would compromise our 
independence and impartiality. Its up to us to determine what evidence we need in order to 
investigate a complaint. So although Ive noted the questions which Mr B and Mrs N would 
like answered, its not my role to put those questions to ME or act as a representative or go-
between on this case.
For ease of reference, I will keep to the same numbering as the investigator used in her 
letter dated 6 April 2023.
1. Mr B and Mrs N say that ME didnt acknowledge or confirm redemption of the mortgage 
on 28 June 2022.
I agree that there were delays in closing down the account, due to a backlog of work at ME. 
This caused a delay in Mr B and Mrs N being told the mortgage account had been settled. 
ME has acknowledged its error here, so I dont need to analyse what happened to decide if 
ME was at fault. 
2. There was an eight-week delay in applying funds to Mr B and Mrs Ns account between 
13 April 2022 and 10 June 2022.
There had been an agreement reached between Mr B and Mrs Ns solicitors and ME in April 
2022 for a payment to be made to the account, which required the account to be re-worked 
in order that the sum paid was correctly apportioned between capital and interest. This 
wasnt simply a push-button exercise but required complex calculations. No timescale was 
given for this, and so Im unable to find there was any undue delay by ME in relation to this.
3. Mr B and Mrs N want to be compensated for the delays arising from point 2 above.
Because Im satisfied there was no specified timescale for the payment to be credited, Im 
not persuaded compensation should be paid for the time taken to recalculate the account.
4. An incorrect redemption statement was issued in May 2022. This resulted in a delay 
while ME sent out a correct redemption statement.
The adjustment to the account in June 2022 changed the redemption figure from that issued 
in May 2022 and so a new redemption statement was required for June 2022. As I said 
above, I dont find there was any unreasonable delay by ME in relation to calculating the 
adjustment to the account. It follows, therefore, that Im not persuaded that there was no 
need for there to be a new redemption statement in June 2022.
5. While they were waiting for the redemption statement, interest rates increased, and so 
Mr B and Mrs N had to pay a higher repayment in June 2022.
Its unfortunate that interest rates increased before the mortgage was redeemed. However, 
as Ive found no undue delay by ME, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to order ME to 
reimburse Mr B and Mrs N for the higher repayment they had to make in June 2022.
6. Mr B and Mrs N are unhappy that ME used the terminology write off DR balance in the 
account history.
There were events occurring on this mortgage account that were non-standard and so didnt 
fit within the descriptions available on MEs system. Whilst I can see Mr B and Mrs N were 
unhappy that ME used the phrase write off DR balance to describe an account adjustment, 
I dont think theres been any loss or detriment to Mr B and Mrs N as a result of this.
7. The redemption statement of June 2022 showed a different amount than Mr B and Mrs N 
had earlier been told theyd have to pay. This changed again, and Mr B and Mrs N 
werent happy about this.
Its not my role to audit mortgage accounts, but Ive reviewed the figures provided by ME. I 
completely understand why Mr B and Mrs N were confused by these. However, I think the 
figures ME provided are correct, and that the right amount was paid to redeem the account. 
There has therefore been no financial loss or detriment caused to Mr B and Mrs N.
8. Mr B and Mrs N arent happy with a final response letter dated 30 June 2022. They 
believe this was flawed and resulted in a previous complaint being dismissed.
The letter date 30 June 2022 complied with the Financial Conduct Authoritys requirements 
for a final response letter, the complaint was referred to our service and an ombudsman 
issued a final decision on it on 9 December 2022. But in any event, I can only consider 
complaints about regulated activities, or activities ancillary to regulated activities. MEs complaint-handling doesnt fall within that category, so I wont be making any further 
comment on this as I have no legal power to do so.
9. Mr B and Mrs N thought the letter they received asking about proof of funds for the 
redemption was amateurish and looked like a draft.
I am sorry if Mr B and Mrs N were offended that there was repetition in the letter they 
received about this, or that they considered its tone amateurish. However, I cant tell ME 
how to write its letters. 
10. Mr B and Mrs N are unhappy that they were asked to provide proof of funds for the 
redemption, when they consider ME didnt ask for sufficient documentation when the 
mortgage was taken out.
ME is entitled to request information about the source of funds for a mortgage redemption, in 
line with money-laundering regulations, so it did nothing wrong in asking for this. 
In a jurisdiction decision dated 5 November 2021 an ombudsman decided that we couldnt 
consider Mr B and Mrs Ns complaint about what happened when the mortgage was applied 
for, as this was out of time. So although I appreciate Mr B and Mrs N still feel very strongly 
about this, I dont have any legal power to consider what happened when they took the 
mortgage out.
11. Although the mortgage was redeemed on 28 June 2022, ME took a monthly repayment 
by direct debit on the same day.
The direct debit was already scheduled at the point the mortgage was redeemed. This 
wasnt an error, but I can understand that it caused Mr B and Mrs N some concern.
12. After the mortgage was redeemed, ME refunded £428.65. Mr B and Mrs N were 
unhappy that ME didnt explain what this was for.
I can see that ME provided a full breakdown of this figure in its final response letter dated 
10 January 2023. I dont therefore require ME to do anything further.
13. Mr B and Mrs N arent happy about the length of time ME has taken to deal with this 
complaint.
As I have previously explained, I cant consider a complaint about complaint-handling and so 
I will make no further comment on this.
Conclusion
I can see how important this complaint is to Mr B and Mrs N. I can see from the intensity of 
what theyve told us that this has been a difficult time for them and theyve found dealing with 
ME very stressful. They see error or wrong-doing in almost everything ME has done (or not 
done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction and entirely understandable when youre as close to a situation as Mr B and Mrs N have been, and where the events have unfolded over 
a number of years.
But I have a different remit; I have to be objective and impartial and decide the case on the 
basis of all the evidence, rather than be swayed by emotion. So whilst I do have 
considerable sympathy for the difficulties Mr B and Mrs N have had, for the most part Ive not 
found ME to have been at fault.
There have been some customer service issues which I am glad to see ME has 
acknowledged. It has offered compensation of £400 for this (including for issues around 
complaint-handling, which Im unable to consider, as explained above). I think that in all the 
circumstances £400 is fair, reasonable and proportionate to any distress and inconvenience 
caused by the delays taken in closing down the account after redemption. I am therefore 
making no other order or award.
My final decision
I direct Mortgage Express to pay Mr B and Mrs N £400 compensation in full and final 
settlement of this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman