DRN-3004919
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Tandem Bank Limited handled his claim for a refund on a hotel 
booking he couldnt use.
What happened
On 19 February 2020 Mr H paid for a four-night hotel stay from 16 March to 20 March 2020 
using his Tandem credit card. He paid through an online travel agent, who I will refer to as B. 
The price paid was £318.60. 
Mr H said his son, who lived in the country he was due to visit, told him in early March that 
Spain would be in lockdown by 14 March 2020. As Mr Hs return flight was also cancelled, 
he contacted the hotel through Bs website portal to get a refund. After an exchange of 
correspondence, the hotel said as the booking was non-refundable, it could only offer him 
the chance to change his booking for a future date. 
Spain declared a state of emergency on 14 March 2020, imposing significant restrictions on 
movement throughout the country and on 18 March 2020 it confirmed that all hotels in the 
country would be closed from 24 March 2020. The UK government also began issuing 
guidance on restricting movement in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, advising against all 
unnecessary travel and social contact on 16 March 2020 and on 23 March 2020, the UK 
went in to full lockdown.
Given all the restrictions, and the fact that Mr Hs return flight was also cancelled, Mr H 
contacted Tandem on 19 March 2020 to get a refund for the hotel booking. Tandem sent Mr 
H a declaration form to complete and applied a temporary credit on his account. 
Although Mr H returned the requested information, between March 2020 until May 2020, 
Tandem requested further information including that which Mr H had already provided.
In May 2020 having reviewed the evidence from Mr H, Tandem declined to raise a 
chargeback. As the merchant hadnt cancelled the booking and was still able to provide the 
service, Tandem didnt consider Mr H had a valid chargeback claim. Unhappy with this, Mr H 
contacted Tandem requesting it reconsider his claim. On 24 May 2020 Tandem said Mr Hs 
concerns had been passed to its complaints team.
On 27 May 2020 Tandem applied a temporary credit again and raised a chargeback for him. 
On 7 June 2020 Tandem said it was still looking into Mr Hs concerns. Mr H responded to 
say as the item was returned to his account for a second time, no further enquiries were 
necessary and to consider the matter closed. On 8 June 2020 Tandem confirmed to Mr H his 
complaint had been closed as per his request.
On 7 July 2020 the merchant defended the chargeback, providing evidence that Mr H 
cancelled a non-refundable booking. Tandem told Mr H it didnt consider a chargeback right 
existed, and the temporary credit was reapplied to his credit card balance.
Mr H said when Tandem confirmed the complaint was closed, on 8 June 2020, he booked 
new flights as he thought everything was sorted. He thought Tandem dealt with his claim 
extremely unprofessionally, as the refund was taken back twice, and he wanted a full refund. 
On 17 July 2020 Tandem sent Mr H a final response letter. It explained the merchant 
provided evidence to show the booking was non-refundable and the hotel was also open 
during the dates of his stay. As there was no right to a refund, based on Mr H cancelling, 
Tandem said the chargeback couldnt be taken further.
In terms of the credit being applied and removed, Tandem said the first temporary credit was 
applied and removed when it didnt believe a chargeback could be raised. The second 
temporary credit was added when the chargeback was raised but later removed when the 
merchant successfully defended the chargeback. Tandem said sorry Mr H changed his 
plans, but said the credit was only temporary, and subject to the dispute outcome. However, 
Tandem said it couldve handled Mr Hs dispute better as it asked him to provide information 
hed already provided. It credited his account with £20 for the inconvenience caused. 
Mr H said he didnt change his plans but made fresh plans, based on Tandem confirming his 
complaint was closed. He said there was no mention the chargeback may still be ongoing, 
and he thought Tandem should offer a refund of 50%.
When Mr H received no further response, he referred his complaint to our service. In 
summary, the investigator thought Tandem acted fairly in not taking the chargeback further 
when it was defended, as the hotel service remained open and it was Mr H who cancelled 
the booking. In terms of Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s75), given Mr H had 
cancelled a non-refundable booking, the investigator didnt think Tandem had acted unfairly 
or unreasonably by not pursuing a s75 claim for him.
In terms of Mr H relying on an email from Tandem and making another booking, as Tandem 
hadnt guaranteed a refund in any of its communication, the investigator didnt think Mr H 
was due a refund. With regard to the service Mr H received, the investigator thought the £20 
paid by Tandem was suitable compensation to remedy what went wrong at the start of the 
dispute process.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators assessment. He said he wasnt aware of the 
timescales relating to chargeback. He felt it was reasonable to accept when Tandem said 
the matter was closed, that it looked at the situation and accepted that his circumstances 
had changed too. Mr H reiterated that he wouldnt have booked the additional flights if he 
didnt receive confirmation that everything was in order from Tandem. In terms of the £20, he 
said this was for Tandems own incompetence and nothing to do with the relevant claim.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to consider if Tandem has treated Mr H fairly here  I need to think about whether it 
should have done more to assist Mr H in getting his money back. That means considering
whether Tandem did enough in respect of the chargeback process and, if its response to the 
s75 claim was fair and reasonable.
ChargebackThere are different ways that a bank can assist consumers who have had issues with goods
or services not being provided. In some cases, a bank may be able to request a refund from
the supplier through the chargeback scheme. This is a way in which payment settlement
disputes are resolved between card holders and suppliers/merchants. They are dealt with
under the relevant card scheme rules and in this case that is the Mastercard card scheme.
In certain circumstances the process provides a way for Mastercard to ask for a payment Mr
H made to be refunded. There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when 
a consumer asks for one. But I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be 
attempted where the right exists and there is some prospect of success.
When a chargeback is raised, the scheme allows a given period of time - usually around a 
month - for the supplier to reply to say whether or not they agree to the refund. And when a 
supplier does defend a chargeback, this can lead to further representations by the 
cardholders bank, if it considers the supplier has raised a weak or invalid defence. The 
process then allows for further representations to be made, if parties do not agree for the 
issue to be decided by the scheme in a process known as arbitration. 
Here Tandem didnt initially raise a chargeback when Mr H first contacted it. Tandem said 
the evidence showed the hotel was able to provide the service and it was Mr H that was 
cancelling a non-refundable booking. And so, it didnt think there were grounds to raise a 
chargeback. When Mr H disputed this and asked Tandem to reconsider, it raised a 
chargeback in case the merchant accepted, or couldnt provide evidence to defend the 
chargeback. When the merchant then defended the chargeback for those same reasons 
(that the services were available and Mr H cancelled the booking), Tandem closed the 
chargeback dispute.
Given the above, Ive gone on to think about whether Tandem should reasonably have done 
more here. This means considering whether B, who was the agent and merchant of record 
here, submitted a valid defence fairly bringing the dispute to a close, or, whether its defence 
was weak and whether in light of this Tandem should reasonably have done more. 
From what Ive seen its not clear if Mr H formally activated the agents cancellation policy. If 
he did its unlikely, he would have had grounds for a chargeback for services not received as 
hed already cancelled the services before the chargeback was raised. And at the point that 
its alleged he cancelled, while some covid-19 related restrictions were beginning to take 
hold in Spain and the UK, Ive not seen anything that makes me think it was clear the hotel 
was going to be closed during the period of Mr Hs stay. 
Ive also given thought to the position if Mr Hs emails to the agent did not constitute a 
cancellation. 
Having looked through Mastercards chargeback rules, as well as the guidance from 
its Dispute Resolution Management During COVID-19 (Public Version) May 1, 2020, it 
contains guidance which I think is relevant to this scenario. 
The guidance explains that where services are available, but a cardholder is unable to use 
those available services because of travel restrictions for example, there is no chargeback 
right, as the merchant has fulfilled its obligations to provide the service that was paid for.
In this case the hotel was open and able to provide the service to Mr H, and from what I 
have said already, it appears the country he was due to visit said hotels would be closed 
from 24 March 2020. As Mr H was due to stay from 16 March until 20 March, whilst there 
may have been restrictions in place, there was nothing to suggest that the hotel wasnt open or couldnt provide the service to Mr H. As the terms also didnt allow for a refund in the 
event of a cancellation made by Mr H, I dont think Tandem acted unreasonably by not 
pursuing the chargeback further, as it doesnt appear it would have succeeded even if 
Tandem had pursued it more robustly.
Mr H said he paid for flights for a new booking on the basis hed been led to believe his 
chargeback was successful. He said this was because Tandem effectively confirmed it had 
credited his account permanently when it told him it would close down his complaint in 
response to his email of 7 June 2020. 
Following Mr Hs request, I can see Tandem said it would close his complaint in its email of 8 
June 2020. But I can see this was referring to his complaint and not his actual chargeback 
claim. I appreciate there may have been some overlap with Tandems communications 
regarding Mr Hs claim and complaint, given they were both occurring at the same time, but I 
cant see anything showing Tandem at any point said the chargeback claim had been 
successful, or it was being closed, and/or that the temporary credit was being made 
permanent. 
As Im not persuaded that the content of the emails from Tandem implied the actual 
chargeback was successful, I dont consider Mr H is due a refund for booking new flights 
because he relied on that information.
Section 75 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) says that in certain circumstances the 
borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim against the credit provider if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services.
But for s75 to apply, there are certain criteria that need to be satisfied before looking at 
whether a breach of contract or misrepresentation has occurred. These include that there is 
a specific relationship between the parties, known as the debtor-creditor-supplier relationship 
and that the purchase meets a certain cash price. 
Here Tandem said Mr H cancelled the booking which was made on a non-refundable basis, 
the merchant did not break its agreement, and the hotel was also open during the dates of 
his stay. Because of this, Tandem said it didnt raise a s75 claim as it didnt think it would 
succeed.
In considering whether Tandem acted reasonably by not raising a s75 claim, I have firstly 
considered what the agreement was between Mr H and B. It appears that the contractual 
agreement was for B to make the booking, rather than to provide the hotel service itself. 
From what I can see this had been done insofar as the agent booked the room with the hotel 
for Mr H. As Mr Hs cancellation also didnt seem to give rise to a refund, in the event of a 
cancellation or no-show by him, under those terms and conditions, I dont think Tandem was 
liable to Mr H under s75. So, I dont find it acted unfairly or unreasonably by not raising a s75 
claim for Mr H.
Service 
In terms of service failings from Tandem when it dealt with Mr Hs chargeback claim, I can 
see between March 2020 to May 2020, it requested information from him which it was 
already in receipt of. Tandem apologised for this and credited Mr Hs account with £20. Given that I havent seen any persuasive evidence of other service failings from Tandem, 
and as the chargeback itself was dealt with quickly without any further delays, I dont think 
any additional compensation is warranted here.
My final decision
I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed with this decision, but for the reasons above my final 
decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Tandem Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Farhana Akhtar
Ombudsman