DRN-3292468
The complaint
Mr M complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limiteds handling of his claim about 
stolen bikes, under his home contents insurance policy. 
What happened
In July 2021 Mr M made a claim to RSA for two bikes that were stolen as well as a mobile 
phone, sunglasses, a watch, and accessories relating to the bikes. Mr M told RSA the bikes 
were in his garden or shed, but his keys were with the bikes and this allowed the other items 
to be taken from within his home. 
Mr M says he later discovered his wife had brought the bikes into the kitchen on the night 
they were stolen. He says this means the £1,000 policy limit for property stolen outside of his 
property shouldnt apply. Mr M says he was drinking on the night of the theft and watching 
England playing in the Euros. He says this is why he was unaware his wife had brought the 
bikes into the house until later. 
RSA says Mr M told it the bikes were in the garden when they were stolen along with keys 
and a mobile phone. It says a few hours later he called back to explain the phone, and a 
smart watch were actually on charge inside the house, which is where they were stolen from, 
and that sunglasses had also been taken.
RSA says it accepted Mr Ms changed account of what happened and provided cover for the 
stolen items. 
RSA says it told Mr M in error that he had a policy limit of £350 per bike. But later corrected 
this to confirm the policy allowed a total claim value of £1,000 for the items taken from 
outside his home. 
RSA says Mr M later told it his bikes were taken from inside his house, from the kitchen. It 
says if this was the case the claim wouldnt be limited to £1,000. RSA says it wasnt notified 
of this until September 2021. It says it wasnt prepared to accept another change in the 
account of events provided Mr M at this stage.
Mr M wasnt happy that his claim for items stolen from his garden was limited to £1,000. He 
maintained the bikes were stolen from inside his home and so referred his complaint to our 
service. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. Having listened to the call recordings 
between Mr M and RSA, he says Mr M didnt inform RSA that the bikes were taken from the 
kitchen until at least a month after he first claimed. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable that RSA handled the claim based on the original 
account Mr M provided, which meant a claim limit of £1,000 was applied for the bikes. Given 
the account of events had already changed, and acknowledging the gap in providing this 
new information, he didnt think it was reasonable to ask RSA to take any further action. 
Mr M disagreed, he referred to calls with RSAs agents when he says this was discussed. He 
also refers to the police report, which he says confirms where the bikes were stolen from. 
Because he disagreed with our investigators view, Mr M asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
RSA accepted Mr M had a valid claim for loss due to the theft of items from his garden as 
well as some items taken from inside his kitchen. My remit here is to consider whether RSA 
treated him fairly in applying a £1,000 limit to the items stolen from outside his property. 
The policy terms under Section 1- Contents Cover say:
Contents in the open
The contents are insured while they are outdoors but within the boundaries of the property 
against loss or damage as a result of causes 1 to 8 of this section. The most we will pay for 
any one claim is £1,000. 
I think the terms are clear that a £1,000 limit applies to items taken outside Mr Ms home. 
I have listened the first notification of loss call (FNOL) from the beginning of July 2021. This 
is when Mr M first made his claim. During this call he tells RSAs call handler that two bikes, 
his keys and phone had been stolen from the garden. Although I note later in the call, he 
also refers to them being in a shed. The call handler explains that for the items stolen from 
the garden, there is a policy limit of £1,000 with an excess fee of £100.
Mr M called back later that day to confirm additional items were stolen from inside his home. 
More specifically from his kitchen. The items stolen from inside were a watch, sunglasses, 
and his phone that he explained was on charge. Mr M thought his keys must have been 
used to gain entry to his house, and these had been left outside. In a subsequent call RSA 
queried the circumstances of the theft again with Mr M. He told it a spare set of keys had 
been used to lock the house the night of the theft.
RSA accepted Mr Ms account of what had happened and included the items stolen from his 
kitchen in his claim. 
In his complaint Mr M says he was mistaken when he told RSA that his bikes had been 
outside when they were stolen. He says he found out that his wife had brought both bikes 
into the kitchen the night of the theft. 
RSA says he didnt make it aware the bikes were in the kitchen until an email he sent in 
September 2021. It says it wasnt satisfied to consider this further change in his account of 
the claim at this point. 
I have listened to the call recordings from the conversations Mr M had with RSA about his 
claim. I understand some calls that took place with RSAs agent arent available. But from 
the recordings available Mr M doesnt say his bikes were stolen from within the kitchen.
In a call that took place around a month after the FNOL call, RSAs call handler reiterates that the policy limit is £1,000 because the bikes were stolen from Mr Ms garden. During the 
same call Mr M can be heard to say both bikes were in the garden or in the garage. In a call 
that took place a week after this, Mr M is asked whether his keys were outside with his bikes, 
and he responded he didnt know where his keys were. 
If Mr M was aware his bikes had been stolen from his kitchen, I would expect him to have 
said so during these calls. From the evidence provided I cant say that RSA was made 
aware the bikes were stolen from the kitchen until it received Mr Ms email in September 
2021. 
Mr M says he told the police his bikes were stolen from the kitchen at the time the theft was 
reported. 
We asked if Mr M or RSA could provide a copy of a police report. Mr M says he didnt have a 
copy but had sent it to RSA. RSA says it didnt receive a police report only the crime 
reference number. From the call recordings Mr M can be heard providing a crime reference 
number. There is no mention of a report. We asked Mr M if he was able to obtain a copy of 
the police report. He said he wasnt prepared to delay matters by requesting a copy of the 
report from the police.   
     
I dont dispute Mr Ms account of events. But I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to rely 
on the information he provided when he first reported his loss. The business did accept Mr 
Ms first changed account when he called again on the day of the claim. But the call 
recordings show he was still referring to his bikes being taken from the garden over a month 
later. 
Mr M says he only accepted RSAs offer as he was expecting £1,000 per bike. Im sorry that 
his bikes have been stolen. It must be disappointing that the payment he received from RSA 
doesnt cover the loss he has sustained. But it was made clear in the FNOL call that the 
policy limit is £1,000. This is also clearly stated in the policy terms. I understand there was 
some confusion with RSAs agent where the limit was thought to be £350. But this was 
clarified when Mr M queried this with the business. 
I acknowledge Mr Ms concern that he is unfamiliar with insurance terms and feels deceived 
by RSAs use of the term out in the open. Having listened to the calls I think its made clear 
that the £1,000 limit applies to the bikes because they were taken from the garden. The use 
of the term out in the open, is used alongside this explanation. I dont think RSAs 
explanation of the policy limit was unclear.  
 
Having considered all of this I think RSA treated Mr M fairly when handling his claim and 
declining his changed account of where his bikes were stolen from. So, I cant reasonably 
ask it to do anymore.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman