DRN-3024003
The complaint
 Mr W complains that KML Financial Services Limited gave him unsuitable advice to transfer
his personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and to invest in an
Unregulated Collective Investment Scheme (UCIS). Mr W says hes suffered a loss as his
investment now holds nil value.
Mr W brought his complaint via a professional representative. For ease, I will refer to all
submissions as if they were from Mr W. 
What happened
In June 2014 Mr W asked KML for advice about transferring his personal pension into a
SIPP.
Mr W says thats because an employee of KML gave him information about an unregulated
investment with Dolphin Capital - a property development scheme in Germany. He says
KMLs employee suggested it would be a good scheme for investing in using his pension
funds.
KML however, say Mr W approached them to transfer his pension having already decided to
invest in Dolphin Capital.
KML completed whats commonly known as a fact find with Mr W. The fact find recorded
that;
Mr W was 43 years old, he was married with three dependent children and was in
good health.
He was a self-employed HR consultant earning £60,000 per year and had £1,000 in
savings.
He owned a house worth £275,000 with a mortgage of £207,000.
He also owned a buy-to-let property worth £160,000 with a mortgage of around
£135,000.
He had a personal pension with a transfer value of around £27,000 and he wished to
invest all of it into an unregulated investment with Dolphin Capital.
He had no other pensions and wasnt currently making any pension contributions.
He had a fair degree of understanding and knowledge of investing.
KML also completed an assessment of Mr Ws attitude to investment risk using a risk
profiler. The results recorded Mr W as having a risk profile of 9 (very high risk) out of a
possible score of 10. It also noted he had a capacity for loss that would mean large losses
would have a low impact on future lifestyle.
In their suitability report KML recommended Mr W switch his personal pension into a SIPP.
They said Mr Ws objective was to invest in an unregulated investment with Dolphin Capital
and a SIPP was the only way to achieve that. But KML advised Mr W not to invest all his
funds in Dolphin Capital. They recommended he invest the minimum investment, which was
£10,000. They then recommended he invest the rest of his funds into a managed fund.
Mr W paid KMLs advice fee of £802.66, representing 3% of the transfer value. KML also
offered an on-going advice service for 0.5% p.a. However, they say Mr W declined their 
ongoing services.
Mr W followed KMLs recommendations and a SIPP was set up in his name. £10,000 was
invested into Dolphin Capital and £12,000 into the managed fund. The residual balance was
held in a bank account inside the SIPP.
In 2020 Dolphin Capital went into administration and so, Mr W says his investment in
Dolphin Capital now has a nil value.
Mr W complained to KML in 2020 via a professional representative. He said the advice
theyd given him was unsuitable and had led to his losses. He also thought KML had been
paid a commission for opening the SIPP.
In response, KML said Mr Ws attitude to investment risk was very high and he could
withstand large losses without affecting his lifestyle. They also said Mr W understood the
risks involved with his investment and so their recommendations had been suitable.
KML also said the only fee they received was the 3% fee Mr W paid when he transferred the
funds.
Mr W was unhappy with KMLs response so brought his complaint to our service. I sent 
Mr W and KML my provisional decision on 3 August 2021. In it I said that I didnt think KML 
had followed the regulators guidance and best practice when theyd recommended the 
investment to Mr W. I also said KML hadnt accurately assessed Mr Ws attitude to 
investment risk or capacity for loss and I didnt think it had been suitable to recommend the 
investment in Dolphin Capital to Mr W. 
I invited further comments from both parties before making my final decision. Ive copied the 
findings from my provisional decision below. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said;
While theres disagreement over who introduced Mr W to the investment into Dolphin
Capital, KML still gave a recommendation to switch Mr Ws personal pension into a SIPP in
order to facilitate the investment. So, they needed to be satisfied that the investment was
suitable for him. Therefore, this decision will focus on whether KMLs advice was suitable.
What the regulator had said.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant laws and
regulations as well as the regulators rules, guidance and standards. Where appropriate I
also consider what was good industry practice at the time of the advice.
In 2010, the then regulator, the Financial Services Authority (FSA) issued a report regarding
good and poor practices when advising clients on investing in unregulated collective
investment schemes.
Amongst other things, the FSA gave an example of poor practice where a firm didnt assess
their customers knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific
type of investment, yet still recommended the UCIS, believing the customer was a
sophisticated investor.The report also gave examples of good practices like where a firm had set a maximum
portfolio proportion for UCIS investments within their clients portfolio. This level was
between 3% and 5% and was backed up by the firms robust and on-going due diligence and
monitoring.
In April 2014, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued an alert to remind businesses of
their responsibilities when advising on pension switches where monies were being invested
into unregulated products. The FCA said;
We believe pension transfers or switches to SIPPs intended to hold non-mainstream
propositions are unlikely to be suitable options for the vast majority of retail customers. Firms
operating in this market need to be particularly careful to ensure their advice is suitable.
The FCA said theyd seen many cases of customers whod held traditional pension plans,
invested in mainstream funds with no experience of non-mainstream propositions and limited
experience of standard investments. The new arrangements proposed by businesses were
typically into unregulated, high risk and highly illiquid investments. They said such transfers
were unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of retail customers.
The FCA went on to say that if the underlying investment is unsuitable for the customer, then
the overall advice isnt suitable. They also said the firm needed to understand the underlying
investment proposition in order to be able to assess its suitability.
The FCA had previously issued guidance in March 2011 for assessing suitability. They said
firms shouldnt rely solely on risk profiling tools to establish their clients attitude to risk.
The FCA said that firms should have a robust process for assessing the risk a customer is
willing and able to take, which includes assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately
interpreting customer responses to questions and not attributing inappropriate weight to
certain answers; and ensuring that tools are fit for purpose with any limitations recognised
and mitigated.
Did KML follow the regulators guidance and best practice?
I dont think they did. Ill explain why.
The fact find recorded that Mr W had a fair degree of understanding and knowledge of
investments. The suitability report also said Mr W was fully aware of the risks inherent in a
SIPP and the risks of investing with Dolphin Capital. But it was for KMLs to assess Mr Ws
knowledge and understanding of this specific type of investment. And I dont think they did.
I say that because theres no evidence Mr W had any experience of unregulated property
investments like Dolphin Capital. Theres also no recorded evidence he had much
experience in mainstream investments either. And as a retail client, its unlikely Mr W truly 
understood the risks involved in this type of investment.
The FCA said KML needed to understand the investment they were recommending to Mr W.
But the suitability report held very few specific details about the Dolphin Capital investment.
And although KMLs suitability report states the investment in Dolphin Capital is high risk, it
doesnt go on to explain what the risks are in a way thats easily understood by a retail client.
The investment was high risk, highly illiquid, highly geared and speculative. In contrast,
Mr Ws sole pension provision had been held in a mainstream investment fund. Investing in
an unregulated investment such as Dolphin Capital was something which was only usually
recommended for high net worth or sophisticated investors. And Im not satisfied that Mr W
was either of these.While KML recommended Mr W didnt invest all his funds into Dolphin Capital, the
investment still represented approximately 37% of Mr Ws sole pension provision in the
SIPP. Considering the FSAs indication that it was good practice to invest a much smaller
percentage of the portfolio, I dont think it was good advice to invest such a large proportion
of Mr Ws sole pension into a single unregulated high-risk investment as the affect of it failing
would have a larger impact on the overall portfolio.
Was the advice suitable?
I dont think it was. Ill explain why.
KML used a risk profiler to assess Mr Ws attitude to investment risk as being very high.
The profiler noted that some of Mr Ws answers indicated inconsistencies that might have
reflected a misunderstanding of the questions or the possible responses. For example, Mr W
disagreed that he would take more risks than the average person  something which might
contradict having a very high-risk attitude. He also said he neither agrees or disagrees that
he felt comfortable with financial uncertainty. But it was very likely that investing a significant
proportion of his funds in a single, very high-risk investment would lead to financial
uncertainty.
The FCA had said KML had a duty to investigate any inconsistencies in the fact-finding
process, which would include inconsistencies in the answers given in the risk profiler. But the
suitability report failed to address the inconsistencies in Mr Ws answers. KML had a
responsibility to truly know their client. They needed to probe and understand his attitude to
risk. And I havent seen sufficient evidence that they did.
Mr Ws answers to the attitude to risk questionnaire may have led to a categorisation of very
high risk. But that doesnt mean the investment was suitable. As well as Mr Ws attitude to
risk, the rules required KML to consider Mr Ws financial situation so that they could be
satisfied he had the capacity for loss to bear the investment risks.
The fact find recorded that Mr W had modest savings and while he owned a house and buy-
to-let property, both were heavily mortgaged. The buy-to-let also being on an interest only
mortgage. Although the pension itself was modest, it was Mr Ws sole pension and he wasnt
making any contributions to any pensions at that time. KML didnt record any other assets or
investments.
So, while Mr W was still some way off retirement, his provisions for an income in retirement
at that time were limited. KML recorded that large losses could have been tolerated by Mr W,
however I dont think thats backed up by the evidence in the fact find which showed he had
limited assets to draw upon. Therefore, I dont think Mr W had the capacity to potentially lose
37% of his sole pension provision by investing in such a high-risk investment.
Mr Ws personal pension had been invested in a moderately adventurous fund and while I
accept theres evidence that Mr W was willing to accept some investment risk, I dont think
on balance, his attitude to investment risk was truly very high. And even if it was, I dont
think he had the capacity for loss to support such a high-risk investment.
The only recorded reason Mr W transferred into the SIPP was to enable an investment in
Dolphin Capital. So, I think KML should have advised Mr W that to transfer his pension into a
SIPP in order to invest in Dolphin Capital wasnt suitable.
Would Mr W have invested anyway?
Its difficult to be sure what someone would have done if suitable advice had been given.But I think, on balance, Mr W wouldnt have transferred to the SIPP and gone ahead with
investing in Dolphin Capital. I say that because Mr W went to KML as professionals for their
advice. And when they advised that he only invest less than half of his pension in Dolphin
Capital, he listened to them and acted on their recommendation. So, I think its likely any
advice that the transfer wasnt suitable due to the high-risk nature of the underlying
investment would have been significant for Mr W and carried due weight.
I cant see any other reason put forward for transferring to the SIPP other than to invest in
Dolphin Capital. So, had KML given suitable advice, I think Mr W would have remained in his
previous scheme.
The replies to my provisional decision
Mr W said he was broadly in agreement with my decision. But he asked that I consider 
making an award for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered. He also asked that the 
redress contained a provision for five years worth of SIPP fees if it wasnt possible to close 
the SIPP.
In their response KML maintained that it was Mr W who approached them with the intention 
of investing in Dolphin Capital and would have invested in it regardless of their advice. They 
said Mr W had experience in property investment, the risks had been highlighted to him and 
although he says he was a balanced investor, hed previously been invested in an 
adventurous fund. 
KML also said Mr W created drag on the performance of his SIPP by not having it regularly 
reviewed. Thats because after five years there was a return on the Dolphin Capital 
investment. But the returns were paid into the SIPPs bank account where they stayed in 
cash.
KML have confirmed that the SIPP can be closed if the ownership of the loan notes in 
Dolphin Capital are renounced. They also said Royal London are able to provide a notional 
value of what Mr Ws pension would be worth now, had he not transferred it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent changed my mind. Ill explain why.
KML maintain that Mr W had already made up his mind to invest in Dolphin Capital and 
would have done so even if theyd advised against it. But I havent seen any evidence that 
Mr W had already committed to investing in Dolphin Capital before meeting with KML. 
While KML say Mr W approached them to complete the investment and wasnt looking for 
advice, I disagree. Thats because theres no indication that KML were acting on an 
execution only basis. In fact, the client agreement that KML sent us clearly shows Mr W had 
selected and paid for an advisory service whereby a financial review would be conducted, 
and recommendations made  as they were. So, the onus was on KML to provide suitable 
advice and act in Mr Ws best interests. And for the reasons Ive said in my provisional 
decision, I dont think KMLs advice was suitable. 
While Mr W did have some experience in the UK housing market, investing in an 
unregulated overseas investment holds many different risks. Even though KML and the SIPP 
provider pointed out some of those risks, KML gave a personal recommendation to Mr W that the investment was suitable for him when it wasnt. 
I accept that Mr W was unlikely to have had a balanced attitude to investment risk. The 
evidence, including his previous investments, suggest his attitude to risk was higher. 
However, as the regulator advised in 2014, investment in UCIS are unlikely to be suitable for 
the vast majority of retail customers. Theyre most suited to sophisticated investors, those 
with a high capacity for loss or those with the highest level of attitude to investment risk. And 
I dont think KML have shown Mr W was any of those things.   
Well never know precisely what Mr W would have done if KML advised him the investment 
wasnt suitable. But I think on balance, even if Mr W liked the idea of the investment prior to 
speaking with KML, there was nothing preventing him from changing his mind when he 
approached KML for professional advice. And I think he would have placed due weight on 
the professional advice he should have been given and wouldnt have invested.  
KML say Mr W created a drag on the performance of his SIPP because he didnt reinvest his 
returns from Dolphin Capital so they sat in cash in his account. But I think that just adds 
weight to the fact that this transaction wasnt suitable for a retail customer with little 
investment experience. And it was a result of KMLs unsuitable advice that Mr W found 
himself in that position, so theyre responsible for all of his losses - including poor 
performance of funds that remained held in cash.
Mr W has asked for five years worth of SIPP fees if his SIPP cannot be closed due to the 
illiquid investment in Dolphin Capital. While KML have assured me the SIPP can be closed, I 
think its reasonable to add a provision into the redress to compensate Mr W if, for some 
reason, the SIPP cannot be closed due to the investment in Dolphin Capital. 
Mr W also asked me to consider paying compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
KML caused. Mr Ws complaint was made by a professional representative who appear to 
have been the ones communicating with KML throughout. So, I think his inconvenience has 
been kept to a minimum. However, I can see that it must have been upsetting for Mr Ws 
investment in Dolphin Capital to fail. And whilst that wasnt KMLs fault and Mr W was still 
some years from taking his pension benefits, he wouldnt have been in that position but for 
KMLs unsuitable advice. KML should therefore also pay Mr W £200 for the upset hes been 
caused by their unsuitable advice.     
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr W back into the position he would likely 
have been in, had it not been for KMLs error. I think this would have meant he remained 
invested in the Moderately Adventurous Tracker Lifestyle Strategy with Scottish Life (now 
Royal London).
Any loss Mr W has suffered should be determined by obtaining the notional value of the 
pension from Royal London on the basis that it had remained in the Moderately Adventurous 
Tracker Lifestyle Strategy and subtracting the current value of the pension from this notional 
value. If the answer is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable. The notional value 
should be calculated as of the date of my final decision. 
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation 
shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance. 8% simple interest per year should be added from date of my final decision to 
date of settlement if compensation is not paid within 28 days of the business being notified of 
acceptance.If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr W hasnt yet taken any tax-free cash from their plan, 25% of the loss would be tax-free 
and 75% would have been taxed according to their likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss 
adequately reflects this.
I consider the notional value outlined above is the fairest way of resolving this complaint. 
However, if Royal London isnt able to calculate a notional value, my aim is to put Mr W as 
close to the position they would probably now be in if they had invested similarly to the 
Moderately Adventurous Tracker Lifestyle Strategy.
Its not possible to say precisely where Mr W wouldve invested. But I think what Ive set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ws circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr W fairly, KML must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If 
the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
KML should add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, KML should pay into Mr W's pension plan to increase its value by 
the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid 
into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If KML is unable to pay the compensation into Mr W's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him after making a notional reduction to allow for future income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid as Ive set out above.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If KML deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr W how much has been taken off. KML should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP mixedFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
being notified 
of 
acceptance)Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. KML 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as I set out above.
If KML is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. KML may require that Mr W provides an undertaking to pay KML 
any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. 
KML will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr W wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr W's circumstances and risk attitude. 
SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP. 
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by KML taking over the investment, or this is 
something that Mr W can discuss with his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long 
that will take. 
While KML assure me that Mr W will be able to close the SIPP, third parties are involved and 
we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide certainty to all parties, I think its 
fair that KML should pay Mr W a lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees 
(calculated using the previous years fees) if Mr W is unable to close the SIPP. This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. Mr W 
should provide KML with evidence from his SIPP provider to show if hes unable to close the 
SIPP.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and KML Financial Services Limited should 
pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
KML Financial Services Limited should also pay Mr W £200 for the upset caused.
Under the rules of the Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my 
decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman