DRN-3888574
The complaint
Miss H complains that Sense Network Limited failed to review her investments and ensure 
they remained suitable for her; failed to recommend utilising her annual ISA allowance; and 
that onshore bonds werent suitable for her.
The complaint is brought on her behalf by her court-appointed deputy who Ill refer to as 
Mr L. Mr L says Sense Network should refund its fees and compensate Miss H for the failure 
to utilise her annual ISA allowance.
The investment client agreement was with Five Wealth Limited who are an appointed 
representative of Sense Network Limited. As such, Sense Network is responsible for this 
complaint. However, as the agreement was with Five Wealth, I will refer to it, rather than 
Sense Network, as the business in the remainder of my decision.
What happened
In 2012 Miss H received a monetary court award and, due to her mental capacity, a deputy 
was appointed by the Court of Protection to deal with her property and affairs on her behalf. 
The deputy sought financial advice for Miss H from an independent financial advisor. That 
business provided initial advice, and ongoing advice, until around September 2016, when 
the advisor moved to work for Five Wealth and the deputy signed an agreement with 
Five Wealth on Miss Hs behalf. This complaint is about the service provided by Five Wealth 
from September 2016 until March 2021 when it was responsible for providing advice about 
Miss Hs investments.
When Miss Hs investments were transferred to it, she held two investment bonds, which 
provided an annual income of £30,000, and a portfolio of unit trusts held on a third-party 
platform.
Five Wealth charged on-going fees of 0.5% per year. It agreed to review the investments on 
at least an annual basis to ensure they still met Miss Hs requirements.
In September 2020 Mr L was appointed as Miss Hs new deputy. Having reviewed her 
finances, he complained about the advice she was given. In summary he complained that:
The tax treatment of the investment bonds made them unsuitable for Miss H. And she 
was the sole life assured which wasnt appropriate.
The attitude to risk wasnt properly assessed  the deputys attitude was assessed rather 
than Miss Hs. And the level of risk wasnt reviewed.
The investment was too high risk. In 2021 around 64% of the investment was exposed to 
equities.
Five Wealth failed to recommend Miss H invest in an ISA.
There was little or no communication from Five Wealth and a lack of changes to the 
investments.
Five Wealth said it wasnt responsible for the original advice, but that it actively engaged with 
the client portfolio, providing annual reviews, and recommending adjustments as required. It 
said it made annual recommendations to utilise Miss Hs ISA allowance. The 2018/19 ISA 
allowance wasnt used because the deputy didnt pay the money into the ISA account. 
Five Wealth said it tried to contact the deputy during 2019 and 2020 but didnt receive a 
response. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
attitude to risk was kept under review, and that a rebalance of the investments was 
recommended when the investment risk profile was assessed as higher than the agreed 
approach. He said reviews were carried out six-monthly and that ISA recommendations were 
made annually. He couldnt conclude that the investment bonds were unsuitable for Miss H.
Mr L didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
The investment bonds, which deferred an income tax liability, werent suitable for a 
non-taxpayer. There were numerous other products that would have achieved the same 
objective, without the tax liability.
The life assured on the bonds was Miss Hs alone, meaning a potentially significant tax 
liability would become a liability of her estate, with no opportunity of mitigation.
Miss H missed out on the opportunity of growth within a tax-free ISA environment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and in 
my own words. There is a considerable amount of information here but Im not going to 
respond to every single point made. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply 
reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. In particular, I am not going to detail each review that took place or comment on 
each of the individual recommendations made during 2016 to 2021. Instead, I will comment 
on whether I think Five Wealth has fulfilled its agreed obligations overall.
Having considered everything, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator 
for the following reasons:
In July 2016, Five Wealth undertook an initial review, including assessing the risk profile. 
The attitude to risk questionnaire which was completed was specifically for clients where a 
deputy was appointed. It said:
Before making a recommendation it is incumbent on our Firm to validate the level of risk the 
deputy is willing to take on the clients behalf, taking into account risk appetite and capacity 
for loss.
This should be read as the risk the client is willing to take and NOT the deputy personally
Im satisfied it was made reasonably clear that the assessment was for the deputys attitude 
to risk for Miss Hs investments, rather than the deputys personal attitude to risk. The attitude to risk was assessed as Low end of moderate, or 5 out of 10. This doesnt 
seem inappropriate in the circumstances.
The last annual review with the previous business was carried out in January 2016. So, 
whilst a review was carried out in July 2016, the more comprehensive annual review took 
place in January 2017. During the review meeting with the deputy, Five Wealth highlighted 
that the portfolios exposure to risk was 8 out of 10 which was higher than the agreed risk 
profile. But the deputy was comfortable with that level of risk. He said Miss Hs other assets 
 a relatively large bank account balance and a property, should be taken into consideration 
when looking at the overall exposure to risk. I dont think this was inappropriate. And 
Five Wealth wasnt acting as a discretionary investment manager. It was obliged to review 
the investments and provide advice, but it was ultimately the deputys decision whether he 
acted on that advice. So, in highlighting when and where the investments may not have 
been aligned with Miss Hs investment objectives or agreed risk profile, Im satisfied Five 
Wealth fulfilled its obligations.
Mr L says there was little or no communication from Five Wealth and a lack of any changes 
to the investments. I dont agree. Im satisfied that a review took place on at least an annual 
basis. As part of the review, Five Wealth sought information about any changes to Miss Hs 
circumstances and income requirements. It also reviewed the investments to ensure they 
continued to meet Miss Hs objectives, and that they were aligned to the agreed risk profile. 
And it recommended changes where appropriate. Five Wealth has provided evidence of the 
annual meetings in 2017 and 2018 and letters setting out the outcome of its reviews and its 
recommendations.
Five Wealth says it couldnt arrange a meeting during 2019 or 2020, before Mr L was 
appointed as Miss Hs deputy. I find it tried to contact the deputy to arrange the usual 
meeting but that the deputy failed to respond. In the absence of a meeting, Im satisfied that 
Five Wealth set out its recommendations in a letter. This wasnt a discretionary arrangement, 
so Five Wealth couldnt make any changes to the investments without the deputys 
agreement. Overall, I think it took reasonable steps to contact the deputy.
The agreed strategy was that gains from the unit trust portfolio would be realised over time 
to invest in ISAs. I find Five Wealth made recommendations to utilise Miss Hs annual ISA 
allowance each year. So I dont agree with Mr L when he says recommendations werent 
made and that Miss H lost out on the opportunity of tax-free growth within an ISA wrapper.
The ISA investment didnt go ahead for the 2018/19 tax year because, whilst the funds had 
been raised and paid to the deputys account, the deputy didnt transfer them into Miss Hs 
ISA account. I can see Five Wealth reminded him he needed to do this before the end of the 
tax year, so I dont think it can reasonably have done anything more. And it wrote to the 
deputy before the end of the 2019/20 tax year with its recommendations for utilising that 
years allowance, but, as noted above, the deputy didnt reply.
Mr L says the tax treatment of the investment bonds, and the failure to insure more than one 
life, made them unsuitable for Miss H. Five Wealth didnt recommend the bonds, so I cant 
hold it responsible for the initial advice or the way the life assurance element of the bonds 
was set up. Mr L has brought a separate complaint about the initial advice and our service 
has considered this separately. 
Five Wealth was responsible for reviewing the performance of the bonds and ensuring they 
remained suitable for Miss H. I cant see that Five Wealth commented specifically on the 
suitability of the bonds themselves. But Miss H needed her investment to provide her with an 
annual income of £30,000 and Im satisfied that the investment bonds met this objective. I can see that Five Wealth recommended changes to the underlying bond investments from 
time to time to ensure they continued to meet her objective and risk profile.
Five Wealth wasnt obliged to provide tax advice and it was for the deputy to seek 
independent tax advice if he needed it.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that Five Wealth provided the agreed service 
and that it carried out regular reviews to ensure the investments remained suitable for Miss 
Hs circumstances, objectives, and risk profile. It follows that I dont find Five Wealth is 
obliged to refund its annual management fees or pay Miss H compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman