DRN-2281938
The complaint
Mr F complains Octopus Investments Limited (Octopus) failed to honour a withdrawal 
request he made on his crowdfunding account. Hes unhappy after the request was 
acknowledged and in process, he received a message to say it couldnt be complete as all 
requests had been paused.
What happened
In October 2016, Mr F opened a peer to peer crowdfunding account on Octopus platform. 
The platform allowed investors to lend money to prospective borrowers in return for interest 
payments. One of the features of the account was that when an investor wanted to withdraw 
funds, their loan parts would be placed on a secondary market in order to be sold to other 
investors. 
On 19 March 2020, Mr F made a withdrawal request for £287,436. He received an 
automated email saying, We've received your request to withdraw...We're processing your 
request and, all being well, you should receive your money within the next three to five 
working days (though we can't make any guarantees). We'll send a confirmation when the 
money is on its way.
But later that day, he was told all withdrawal requests had been paused. Mr F raised a 
complaint with Octopus. He explained he needed the funds to pay for a house build as well 
as a large pending tax bill. He thought Octopus should honour his request, not least because 
of his financial needs but also because it had been made before the announcement was 
communicated. 
Octopus considered his concerns. It told Mr F that due to the abnormal market conditions 
triggered by the global pandemic, it was experiencing issues with funding the scale of 
withdrawal requests it had received. It acknowledged his disappointment but explained the 
amount of work taking place behind the scenes made it difficult for it to communicate any 
sooner than it had. 
Mr F didnt accept Octopus explanation. He said:
Octopus had behaved inequitably to customers who had already made withdrawal 
requests.
There was nothing contained within the busines terms and conditions to say they 
could suspend withdrawals.
He suspected Octopus had made a retrospective decision, so Octopus customers 
shouldnt suffer from any errors it had made.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Fs complaint but didnt think Octopus had done 
anything wrong. In short, she said:
Octopus had acted in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) regulations 
when it suspended all trading. This was to ensure the price offered for exiting a peer-
to-peer agreement was fair and appropriate.
Although she sympathised that Mr F hadnt been told of the suspension before he 
made the request, she outlined that selling on the secondary market wasnt 
guaranteed. This was also outlined in Octopus terms and conditions in addition to 
the sell request being dependent on market conditions.
Mr F disagreed with the investigator. In summary, he said:
It would have taken little more than a few hours, rather than days to update investors 
that all trading was being suspended, so he thought their actions were unacceptable.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator. I understand this will 
come as a disappointment to Mr F, but Ill explain my reasons why.
Having reviewed all of the submissions, Im satisfied the crux of the complaint relates to 
whether Octopus has treated Mr F unfairly by allowing him to put through a transfer request, 
to then cancel it ten hours later. So, Ive focused of my findings on this issue. In reaching my 
decision, Ive considered the account opening documentation.
When Mr F opened the account, he agreed to the terms and conditions which explain how 
the account would operate The terms say investors can request to sell all or a portion of their 
loans, but it warns requests to sell are dependent on market conditions and cannot be 
guaranteed.
Additionally, Mr F accepted the risks contained within Understanding the risks document. 
This says:
Instant access isnt guaranteed
There is no minimum investment period and you can request a withdrawal at any time, 
however there is no guarantee that you will be able to access all of your investment straight 
away. We recommend that investors consider this investment with a time horizon of 18 
months or more.
Withdrawing money from Octopus Choice means selling the loan parts (the parts of 
individual loans that your money is allocated to) to somebody else or waiting for them to 
mature.
Once your loans parts have been sold, your money will be returned to you. If there arent 
enough investors to buy your loan parts, Octopus may buy them, to speed up their 
withdrawal  but we cant guarantee this.
Octopus says it hasnt done anything wrong. It explains that a withdrawal request even 
under normal circumstances was never guaranteed and was reliant on adequate liquidity 
being available. From the information Ive seen, it does appear withdrawals werent 
guaranteed  and dependent on the availability of new investors to take on the demand for 
withdrawals from investors, like Mr F, trying to sell.Its important to note that there is also a reference to market conditions. Octopus sent an 
email on 19 March 2020 communicating to all of its investors that the pandemic had caused 
extreme market environments. Its email went onto say a large number of investors had been 
trying to sell their investments causing liquidity issues, and as a result, it had taken the 
decision to stop all transactions to protect its clients interests. The following day, Octopus 
sent a further email saying it had made the decision to stop all trading, including stopping 
withdrawals that had already been requested but not processed. 
Octopus says it was hugely difficult decision to make, but one that was needed ensure there 
was sufficient liquidity. 
Octopus has provided our service with evidence to show that extreme market conditions 
caused by the impact of the pandemic were resulting in a surge of withdrawal requests. 
This meant there were liquidity issues facing the platform at the time Mr F made his request 
 so withdrawal requests couldnt be actioned. Ive considered whether this amounts to Mr F 
being treated unfairly in the circumstances. Having reviewed all of the evidence provided, I 
think it was reasonable for Octopus to take some action, and that its decision to suspend 
withdrawals was reasonable.
It appears Mr F has accepted the above following the investigators view. What remains in 
dispute is the belief that Octopus took far too long to update investors of the action it was 
taking, which he says is unacceptable.
Mr F made his withdrawal request at 7.38am on 19 March 2020. He received an automated 
template message that said Octopus was processing his request, which was prior to 
Octopus announcing its decision to suspend trading. Octopus doesnt dispute the timing, but 
it says Mr Fs request was made after the decision to pause had been made. So, Ive gone 
on to consider if Octopus has treated Mr F unfairly here.
I empathise with Mr Fs situation. I appreciate Mr F did suffer a loss of expectation when he 
was later told Octopus wouldnt be processing his withdrawal request. I acknowledge the 
disappointment that would have caused but I also acknowledge that Mr F found out ten 
hours later, on the same day as he made his request. Octopus says in and amongst it 
having to make decisions at speed, it was dealing with a plethora of operational activity 
including transitioning its staff to work from home. I appreciate there were significant 
challenges Octopus would have faced. While this doesnt completely excuse the need to 
communicate changes in a timely manner, I accept the circumstances at the time were 
unusual.   
I understand Mr Fs point that Octopus should have communicated the decision to the pause 
the secondary market straight away. I agree, it would have been better for Octopus to have 
made the announcement earlier as it would have avoided raising Mr Fs expectation of being 
able to withdraw his money when it wasnt going to be possible. Having thought about the 
impact to Mr F in terms of him being able to receive his funds, a sooner announcement, 
wouldnt have allowed him to receive his funds. And the automated email Mr F received 
reads all being well, you should receive your money within the next three to five working 
days (though we cant make any guarantees). So, Im satisfied Octopus didnt assure Mr F 
that hed see his money returned at the point he requested it. It follows then that I dont find 
the Octopus timing of its communication amounts to Mr F being treated unfairly. 
I understand Mr F has since received a large portion of his money back, in addition to 
receiving interest during that time. I think its fair Octopus stopped taking platform fees, 
which has instead been passed on to investors in their monthly interest payments since 
March 2020. In summary of this complaint, Im satisfied the ability to withdraw early from the loans wasnt 
guaranteed. Nor was there a guarantee in the automated response Mr F received. And 
although I think it would have been better for Octopus to have made the announcement 
earlier, its position was corrected quickly and on the same day. So, while I understand why 
Mr F disappointed and frustrated that position wasnt made clear before he made his 
request, I dont think he was treated unfairly in the circumstances. As such, I dont require 
Octopus to do anything.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint against Octopus Investments 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman