DRN-4220924
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint relates to his pension held on a Zurich Wrap platform on advice from 
Openwork Limited since 2016. He complains that:
- There were delays when he had to chase Openwork, time-wasting on unnecessary 
enquiries, sending him incorrect values and documents  all while losses escalated. 
- He asked necessary questions but only received fragmentary and generic responses 
from Openwork. The adviser hadnt maintained replies in one email chain despite 
Mr D asking him to do this in 2019. 
- His risk profile (which goes back to 2016, when the Wrap was set up) was 
misconceived, hence any advice dispensed would be misguided by definition. He 
gave instructions which were not confirmed. 
- From November 2021 onwards he became concerned about the events in 
Russia/Ukraine and the general economic situation. He was also contemplating 
retirement in 2022, making him a vulnerable client. There was a lack of due 
consideration of this, meaning he was treated with neglect and superficiality.
- In the interest of preserving his financial security, and out of concern about his 
attitude to risk had been recorded, he had no option but to react unilaterally and 
move his pension investments to cash in June 2022. 
- He suffered a pension fund loss of £90,671 between November 2021 and June 2022 
and ongoing loss after that point.
What happened
In my provisional decision of 31 May 2023 I set out a lengthy background of all the actions 
Openwork had carried out for Mr D since 2016. I will summarise it more briefly here, with 
some amendments following Openworks response to my provisional decision.
Mr Ds circumstances and objectives in April 2016 were as follows:
Aged nearly 68, single with no dependants and in good health
Earning £50,000pa from his own consultancy company, and receiving a small
defined benefit pension of £104
Expenditure of £900 per month meant income was sufficient for his needs at the time
Held an £11,900 ISA with Openwork, a paid up Group Personal Pension worth
£338,000, a personal pension with Aegon worth £556,000, and an Openwork
personal pension worth £91,500
Main residence was worth £1.5m, and £500,000 was held in other property
Held other assets of £34,000, plus £18,000 in the bank
The adviser assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk as balanced, as he had done in the years 
previously. He said they talked about investment growth, keeping the money invested 
long/medium term as the money is not needed at present. Combining the tax-free cash of 
about £162,000 from the Aegon and Zurich policies with other surplus cash to invest a total 
of £500,000 in the non-pension part of the platform was being discussed. 
The subsequent suitability report dated 30 March 2016 also noted that Mr D had a high 
capacity for investment loss given his other sources of income and two unencumbered 
properties. Mr Ds business was still providing a lucrative income, and the adviser didnt 
foresee any problem with Mr D being able to keep the bulk of his pension invested for the 
next five years in order to take the risk of investing on the stockmarket. Although he said 
Mr D wanted an investment that was reliable and boring, he confirmed that Mr D 
understood and would withstand the risks of investing on the stockmarket.
Mr D went into the Openwork Graphene Balanced Portfolio, comprising these funds:
Omnis Developed Markets (ex-UK/ex-US) Equity Omnis Alternative Strategies
Omnis Emerging Markets Equity Omnis Global Bond 
Omnis UK Equity Omnis UK Bond 
Omnis US Equity
In August 2017 there were email exchanges between Mr D and the adviser. The adviser was 
trying to arrange a meeting to conduct a review, but Mr D was evidently unhappy with how 
his funds had been performing up to that point. He wanted recommendations in writing, in a 
single email chain.
In February 2018 Openwork was arranging a further Mobeus Venture Capital Trust (VCT) for 
Mr D  he had taken out some of these previously as a means to mitigate income tax on his 
company earnings. By June of that year the then moved a new £16,500 pension hed 
accumulated with L&G onto the same platform. This was invested into the Jupiter Merlin 
Balanced Portfolio, which had underlying investments across  international equities, fixed 
interest stocks, commodities and property.
I note there were some concerns about Mr Ds attitude to risk for the pension investment. He 
came out as balanced (three on a five-point scale, where four was adventurous and five 
was speculative). He was aged 70, and the adviser had given him the option for a family 
member to be present when making investment decisions. Its evident that Mr D found this 
insulting as he considered himself fully able to make those decisions. The adviser referred to 
the concerns about risk, saying:
All investments carry risk and it is appropriate to proceed with my recommendations because 
an investment fund that contains a wide array of securities to reduce the amount of risk in the fund. 
Actively maintaining diversification prevents events that affect one sector from affecting an entire 
portfolio, makes large losses less likely.
By July 2018 Mr Ds drawdown account of £536,000 was spread across a range of funds 
managed by 7IM, Artemis, Jupiter, M&G, Newton and Omnis. £33,600 of this was held in 
cash. The proceeds of his L&G transfer hadnt yet been put into drawdown and were 
separately worth £16,500.
The overall split on the platform (which also included £36,500 in a stocks & shares ISA and 
£126,800 in non-pension cash) was 25% money market, 66% equities (under which Ive 
included a small component noted as other) and 9% fixed interest. The relatively low 
holding in fixed interest funds appears to be because of Openworks response to concerns 
Mr D raised in March 2018.
Mr D had asked the adviser about the continuing decline in his fund, saying I am a 
pensioner and cannot afford this loss I raised the issue with you initially in June 2017 and 
have no recommendations. He said that churning was going on in the portfolio to generate 
fees, asked whether he should report this to the ombudsman, and also that the adviser had 
made money from the portfolio when he hadnt. In a later message he added:
The annual loss continues and is now £2500. Having raised concerns in June 2017 I remain 
concerned at the speed of the advice and now want to examine its quality. A tactic of culling non performers and replacing them could have been done before I faced a loss. I would welcome your 
comment.
The advisers administrator responded on 23 March 2018 that most of the existing bond 
holding in the drawdown portfolio (which until then had followed the Openwork Graphene 
Balanced Portfolio) would be sold. The email planned to cull non  performers and replace 
them with higher performers, representing 26.7% of the funds:
1. Fidelity Money builder Income Y Acc GBP Clean  Limited Risk
2. Omnis Alternative Strategies A Inc GBP Clean - Cautious
3. Omnis Global Bond A Inc GBP Clean - Cautious
4. Omnis UK Bond A Inc GBP Clean  Limited Risk
Openwork has said that Mr D went ahead with buying the following:
1. Jupiter Merlin Balanced I Acc GBP Clean - Balanced/Adventurous
2. M&G Optimal Income I Acc GBP Clean - Limited Risk/Cautious
7. 7IM AAP Balanced C Acc GBP Clean - Cautious/Balanced
9. Omnis Managed Balanced B Acc GBP - Balanced
10. Omnis Multi-Asset Income A Acc GBP - Cautious/Balanced
There had been other funds under discussion at the time, all of which were marked as 
speculative (one adventurous/speculative). The adviser says that those were provided for 
reference purposes, but he didnt consider Mr D should invest in them and nor did Mr D do 
so.
On 11 July 2018 Openworks administrator emailed Mr D in an attempt to reassure him that 
the move was taken to protect against the fear that interest rate rises would result in further 
asset falls. She showed how theyd calculated that Mr Ds returns of £3,300 were now 
£1,000 higher than they would have been but for these sales. And the Jupiter Merlin 
Balanced Portfolio in which the L&G pension had been invested had also performed more 
strongly. She passed on further suggestions from the adviser in this message that there 
could be an opportunity for Mr D to invest in China and Emerging Markets at lower prices. 
But she added:
all the companies on this chart are adventurous and have high expected volatility therefore 
taking you out of your risk profile. You are holding a significant amount of cash (£126,294.89) for 
safety reasons and to guarantee an income stream, for example say for a year or so this would 
provide an income of £25,000pa for 5 years without the need to destabilise the portfolio to provide 
that income (i.e. this is money that is profit).
On 19 August 2018 Mr D emailed the adviser asking:
Can you send me a letter making suggestions if I were further up your risk profile please? Without 
a comparison I feel that I may be being limited by the classification your bureaucracy/licence 
which leaves me without sight of alternative strategies.
A fact find completed at this time now noted Mr Ds income from employment had increased 
to £125,000. And the following month, the adviser reiterated that the risk profile 
questionnaire had come out as balanced but Mr Ds capacity for loss had come out as very 
low. The adviser was suggesting that this should be reassessed because Mr Ds funds had 
returned 5% net in the year to date and a large amount of cash was already held, echoing 
the quote above. He asked the administrator to send Mr D another risk questionnaire.
The adviser subsequently responded to Mr Ds suggestion about a higher risk approach. His 
view was that Mr D did have sufficient funds (including his pension) to take up to a 
speculative approach (five on the scale). But he noted Mr Ds impending retirement / taking of income. And as Mr D seemed to have a low capacity for loss, he thought Mr D would 
need to hold sufficient funds in cash for such a scenario not to be a problem for him.
Mr D remained interested in looking at things you have not shown me. Please let me look 
at possibilities. He clarified that he shall not switch the pension [into payment] for several 
years. But he nonetheless maintained This is my pension; I cannot take risks with itIs 
now the time to go into gold. It rose today.
By the advisers 11 October 2018 email the adviser noted that you want to take income 
soon, but emphasized the 6% growth (or £40,100) the portfolio had gained since outset. He 
added, Your risk profile seems to have changed to speculative, with no capacity for loss. 
The paperwork shows now that you can take big risks and cope with large potential and real 
market downturns, yet, your comments confirm that you have no capacity for loss. Please 
confirm that the cash account should be invested and that you are happy for this level of 
exposure.
It's not clear this contradiction was resolved. Again in January 2019 the adviser 
acknowledged that Mr D wasnt happy with the performance of his portfolio. The adviser 
gave his view that markets would slowly decline to about 20% below their high. But even so 
Mr D should remain invested as it was possible this was a correction and markets will 
recover. He concluded:
Either way the markets are high and a turn may be spooked by possibly any insignificant 
negativity. This is why I have advised holding so much cashWe are yet to agree a percentage 
trigger for reinvestment. The move to cash may be triggered when the markets have recovered, or 
you feel uncomfortable. The buyback could be as a reverse pound cost averaging i.e. buying in 
tranches on the way down (to be well positioned to catch a positive correction (almost impossible 
to predict the Bottom). Spreading an investment/ reinvestment over a period of time is a cautious 
approach.
The advisers view on the instability of the markets didnt change through March 2019, where 
he suggested waiting for the outcome of parliamentary votes and continued to refer to Mr Ds 
little or low capacity for loss preventing him being able to take short-term chances. But 
Mr D asked the adviser for more information the next month on investing in China and its 
Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Having asked around, the adviser was unable to locate a fund 
concentrating on BRI.
At the end of July 2019, £33,000 was taken from the cash within the Retirement account in 
order to invest in M&G Global Government Bond, as the adviser thought that it might be a 
good time to start drip feeding some of the cash back into the market. Within a month, Mr D 
was concerned that there might be a recession and asked should 99% of the funds now be 
switched back to cash. The adviser reiterated that his advice was to hold position as there 
might be false signs of a recession, and some adverse movement was already priced into 
the market.
There is a history on this case of Mr D not being placated by the assurances the adviser was 
giving him, such as this comment in October 2019: Being told that it will be alright, don't do 
anything, there may be buying opportunities in the future is not what I thought I pay you for. 
The adviser maintained his mantra: it is all about time in the market, not timing the markets. 
He added that at this time he still considered Mr Ds overall portfolio to be balanced, so to 
downgrade it further to cautious would erode the possibility of a recovery in its growth.
In September 2020 Mr D emailed the adviser to ask Why cant we just buy gold and put it in 
a pension pot? Mr D had spotted that the FCA had added physical gold to a list of standard 
assets in 2014. The adviser sought approval from his head office for Mr D to self-select an investment into an Exchange Traded Fund tracking gold. He was reluctant to himself advise 
on an investment in gold, which he felt was overvalued at a time of uncertainty with the US 
presidency and the timing of a COVID vaccine. I can see that in the same chain of emails 
Mr D had commented I cautious [sic] but you have me losing money.
During 2020 Openwork had recommended Mr D transfer £90,000 of cash into his investment 
account and then put £20,000 into an ISA. For these investments he said Mr Ds attitude to 
risk remained as Speculative (Adventurous) which is an appropriate description, considering 
the level of risk you are prepared to take with any investment you make. During 2021 Mr D 
also invested in a number of Mercia and Octopus Titan VCTs, with a recorded attitude to risk 
of speculative. (In 2022 the same speculative portfolio was used for another ISA transfer.)
At the time of a January 2022 review, Mr D was still earning £80,000pa and was receiving 
£50,000pa of pension income. However, he had been suffering from long COVID for some 
time and was looking into taking further pension benefits. The Octopus and Mobeus VCTs 
Mr D held were paying him tax-free dividends of about £48,600 and £18,000 annually 
respectively. He held the following assets other than property:
IFDL ISA £  17,430 
Embark (Zurich platform) ISA £117,864 
Embark (Zurich platform) Investment Acc £  78,311 
Embark (Zurich platform) Retirement Acc £681,527 
Mercia EIS £119,140 
Octopus Titan VCT £506,082 
Mobius Income & Growth VCT £155,000 
Gold £200,000
Bank accounts £300,000
The adviser made recommendations based on a request from Mr D to start depleting his 
pension pots to mitigate against potential LTA tax charges above the Fixed Protection 2016 
Mr D held. He spent some time exploring whether the income from Mr Ds company 
pensions could be paused, so that his tax bands could be used up with income from pension 
drawdown instead. After the scheme trustees confirmed this wasnt possible, a 
recommendation letter followed in March 2022 for a £60,000 investment into the Mercia 
Northern VCT. Due to the tax relief available, the adviser said this would enable Mr D to 
draw up to £140,000 more from his pensions. 
In April 2022 Mr D emailed the adviser saying that all his responses were passive; the 
pension fund was in decline; and the adviser adopted a buy and forget strategy. The 
adviser responded that most of the funds were trending above the benchmark, and he didnt 
think a restructure was wise as Mr D might lose out on a potential bounce back. 
Nevertheless four new proposed funds were discussed at a meeting on 28 April: Pictet 
Clean Energy, Schroder Global Energy Transition, TB Guinness Global Energy and 
BlackRock GF Continental Europe. 
By June 2022 Mr D was now concerned that only the new investment in TB Guinness Global 
Energy was steadying otherwise poor performance in the portfolio, including the new 
BlackRock GF fund. An administrator responded that the TB Guinness fund was 96% 
invested in gas and benefited from increasing gas prices, whereas the BlackRock fund 
focused on industrials, health care, media and retail.
The adviser told on 17 June 2022 that normal advice on a portfolio with a good spread is to 
hold on to what you have and ride out the storm. He again commented on a mismatch 
between what he said was Mr Ds adventurous attitude to risk, and Mr D referring to himself 
recently in conversation as cautious. The adviser felt conflicted in what recommendations he could make and suggested two different approaches depending on whether Mr D was 
indeed cautious or adventurous.
However, on the same day as this email Mr D instructed that the investments held on the 
platform were encashed, as his funds had fallen by £30,000 (4.7%) over the preceding 
months. His drawdown account was valued at 617,041 on 22 June. Mr D says that upon the 
sale of the portfolio, Openworks administrator forwarded an illegible screen shot of her work. 
And her estimate of the sale value had been understated by about £100,000.
Openwork provided the following overall response to Mr Ds complaint:
Whenever asked prior to late 2021, Mr D had been non-committal on his intended 
retirement age, due to the lucrative contract work he was getting. Although he wound 
up his company at age 70 in preparation to retire, he actually continued working.
From August 2018 onwards, Openwork had received risk questionnaires identifying 
him variously as adventurous as speculative. When this was subsequently 
summarised to Mr D in writing he hadnt challenged it.
Although the level of service provided was a subjective assessment, Mr D had a high 
level of interaction with the adviser. There was no evidence of poor service.
The adviser was entitled to check whether Mr Ds occupational pension trustees had 
the discretion to pause his income payments. It hadnt delayed matters as other 
information was outstanding from the scheme about Mr Ds LTA valuation.
Openwork wouldnt expect its adviser to be constantly advising on alternative sectors 
of investment, e.g. energy, as a matter of course whenever funds had fallen. Its focus 
was on recommending a diverse portfolio of investments. 
The adviser did furnish recommendations in response to particular sectors that Mr D 
wanted to invest in, where he felt able to support those recommendations.
The adviser had no notes of being warned before it actually happened that Mr D was 
going to switch to cash himself. This was not advice Openwork would expect the 
adviser to give as it was a decision that itself bore particular risks. 
The overall performance of the portfolio in a difficult investment environment wasnt 
poor enough to justify a reason to switch to cash.
It offered Mr D £1,541 of fees it erroneously received from the Embark platform going 
back to August 2022, rounded up to £1,575.
Mr D has rejected this offer as he doesnt consider Openwork has explained its method of 
calculation. Openwork arranged for an alternative adviser to contact Mr D to attempt to offer 
advice on reinvestment. The original adviser also told Openwork that he was monitoring the 
markets in the event that there was an opportunity for Mr D to go back in at the same prices. 
My understanding is that Mr D has now gone to a different adviser, as Ill mention later.
Mr D told our service that he had never agreed to an adventurous risk profile for his pension. 
He thought Openwork had failed to observe standards for dealing with vulnerable 
consumers, and had a responsibility to protect him from harm to his pension. He disagreed 
hed played an active role in investing, if that was only to question the absence of advice. He 
wanted to both improve performance and prevent losses and didnt see why that was wrong. 
And hed raised his concern about the security of his pension fund on plural occasions.
My provisional decision of 31 May 2023
Mr Ds attitude to risk
Openwork assessed Mr Ds attitude to risk as balanced on several occasions up to 2018 
[details were provided]. In 2016 Openworks survey concluded that there was less than a 5% 
chance of Mr D being in the higher category (adventurous or 4) on its risk scale. The results printed out in May 2018 are identical, although given the advisers comments about Mr Ds 
reluctance to complete these surveys Im not sure if this means the questionnaire was re-
taken. But overall, Im satisfied that the survey initially undertaken in 2016 shows that Mr D 
was willing to take up to a balanced risk approach. 
I also think when Mr Ds position in 2016 is objectively assessed, he did have at least a 
moderate capacity for loss. His pension funds were substantial and not all of them appear to 
have been brought under Openworks management. Before 2016, his Aegon pension had 
been 58% invested in its Retirement fund, which was originally purposed (before the wider 
uptake of pensions freedoms) for taking an annuity at retirement. As such this was relatively 
low risk. But this was balanced out by the remaining 42% of Mr Ds Aegon plan being spread 
across four equity funds and a balanced managed fund. So I think a balanced attitude to risk 
is broadly consistent with how Mr D had invested with Aegon previously.
Mr D had a defined benefit pension already in payment and was still working, with no firm 
retirement date in mind at that time (when he was approaching 68). He also didnt have 
dependants to provide for, meaning that not all of these funds were going to be needed to 
secure the baseline of income hed need throughout retirement. On at least some of those 
funds, he could take risks. That meant remaining invested in the market and was consistent 
with a balanced risk approach.
Mr D mentions that he might have been prepared to consider annuity purchase  in effect 
making it more important to de-risk the portfolio as he neared retirement. But I find that 
unlikely. When he was asked to look into the options for Mr D taking an income in early 
2022, the adviser concentrated on the level of drawdown income that could be sustainable 
for the rest of Mr Ds lifetime. At no point did the adviser gain the impression Mr D was 
attracted to an annuity, and I can see why. The market had developed since the time Mr D 
had taken an annuity-led approach in his Aegon pension. Annuity rates were at an historical 
low, Mr D was not in poor health, and an annuity would die with him in any event - as he 
didnt have a dependant to pass annuity income on to. 
An annuity was an inflexible way of providing income given the significant fund size Mr D 
had accumulated, whilst continuing to work and displaying frequent concerns about 
mitigating the impact of income tax. Mr D would have sufficient funds to contemplate 
drawdown when he later retired (or phased into retirement), so when also taking into account 
Mr Ds capacity for loss, his risk profile could fairly be said to be balanced overall. 
The original platform illustration didnt set out the split of the seven Omnis funds that were 
used in this portfolio. However these are in any event subject to minor variation, within the 
stated risk range of balanced. Currently, this portfolio holds 68.5% in shares, 29% in bonds, 
and 2.5% in mutual funds and cash. Its very similar to the split that Openwork set out in 
Mr Ds risk questionnaire in 2016 would be employed for a balanced portfolio.
The 2018 complaint
I think Openwork should have treated the concerns Mr D raised in 2018 as a complaint. 
These concerns (whether justified or not) extended to the fact that Openwork had assessed 
his attitude to risk wrongly: I am a pensioner and cannot afford this loss. The file Openwork 
has provided demonstrates that from this point, and contrary to its previous assessment that 
Mr D had a high capacity for loss, it now knew that Mr D felt he couldnt tolerate a 
continuation of the losses hed been experiencing since 2016. 
That is not to say that Openwork should have immediately switched Mr D to cash there and 
then, or even de-risked the portfolio: that would likely have risked crystallising further losses. 
And Im not persuaded that Mr Ds comment was a true reflection of the fact that, up until that point, he had knowingly been prepared to take risks. He was a pensioner but also one 
who was still earning more in income and not yet seeking to draw an income from his 
portfolio. So although dissatisfied with its performance, there was at that time only a paper 
loss. To a large extent I think Mr Ds comment reflects his nervousness at the state of the 
market, and he wasnt alone in having those concerns at the time.
However I am puzzled at the way Openwork batted off the complaint by simply ceding to 
Mr Ds suggestion of a cull of poorly-performing funds. And by doing so in such a way that it 
replaced funds largely of one asset class (bonds) with more share-based funds, which the 
adviser admits took Mr D right to the brink, and in my view over, the threshold of what I 
would consider to be an adventurous approach.
To use the 16 May 2019 snapshot of the portfolio as an example, and excluding the funds 
that were multi-asset or balanced, the remaining two-thirds (£371,323) broke down into a 
7.6% holding in UK smaller companies, 14.1% in Global Income, 2% in Asia Pacific ex-
Japan Equity, 7.5% in Emerging Markets Equity, 7% in European Equity, 14.8% in US 
Equity, 3.4% in Japanese Equity, 24.4% in UK All Companies, 2.6% in UK Smaller 
Companies. These were all equity funds, with a further 7.8% in M&G Optimal Income (which 
invested in bonds) and 8.8% in cash.
In my view, having an equity content as high as 83.4% in two thirds of the portfolio would 
have significantly outweighed the more moderate equity holding that would have been held 
in the other third that invested in the balanced and multi-asset funds. From what I can see 
from the current fund factsheets, some of these balanced/multi-asset funds could have had 
over 70% in equities.
Openwork is welcome to demonstrate otherwise from contemporaneous factsheets, but 
otherwise Im inclined to take the view that this made the portfolio higher risk than Mr Ds 
overall risk profile suggested he was prepared to accept  particularly following his 
comments during 2018. It also compares unfavourably with the more moderate equity 
content that was present in the Graphene Balanced model portfolio.
By April 2022, again excluding the funds that were multi-asset or balanced, the remainder 
of the portfolio still amounted to about two-thirds (£442,583), of which 78% was in equity 
funds, 12.5% in bonds and the remainder in cash. So it hadnt significantly changed, and in 
my view a further shift to bonds (of about 5% on two-thirds of the portfolio) hadnt lowered 
the risk by enough. As a result, I dont agree with the advisers comment in late 2019 that the  
portfolio was already of balanced risk, and reducing it would amount to being cautious. 
Rather, I think the equity content needed to be lowered further for it to remain balanced.
Nothing Mr D was telling Openwork in 2018 indicated that he was now prepared to take 
more risk. And its role, as Mr D points out by referring to the FCAs outcomes of fair 
treatment of consumers, was to give him suitable advice. That was what it was paid to do, 
and giving suitable advice doesnt always  as Openwork has shown on other occasions  
mean agreeing with Mr Ds suggestions. Yet on this occasion it did, and Im not satisfied it 
was suitable advice to increase the risk in the portfolio at a time when Mr D was concerned 
that he couldnt tolerate further losses. That risk was potentially exacerbated because bond 
funds that had underperformed were being sold before they had a chance to recover.
Openwork made these changes before it reassessed that Mr Ds profile could accommodate 
them. And it only made that reassessment after tempting Mr D with offers of funds it 
indicated were outside his attitude to risk  which understandably prompted him to ask to 
see what he was potentially missing out on. I dont think that was treating Mr D fairly. Nor 
was attempting to justify that as he had held a significant sum back in cash, this would balance out taking higher risk elsewhere in the portfolio. I dont think that justified being 
underweight in an asset class (bonds) and missing out on a potential recovery. 
Coming as it did just after Mr Ds capacity for loss had been assessed as very low, and 
even if he still had a balanced attitude to risk, Im puzzled by the advisers comment in mid-
2018 that Mr D had enough assets to adopt a speculative approach  the highest on the 
scale. As the adviser rightly noted, Mr D had an impending retirement / taking of income, 
which in my view was in and of itself a bar to him taking increased risk. Im satisfied that the 
funds reserved in cash gave Mr D scope to continue in the Graphene Balanced model 
portfolio, rather than risk crystallising further losses. But I think the advice to cut out a 
significant bond element from the portfolio during 2018 was unsuitable for him.
Mr Ds understanding of risk
Although there is evidence that Mr D ascribed a fairly cautious description to himself in 
2016, and has used the same description at times since, it is his understanding of what that 
term meant that matters. Through his regular engagement with Openwork, Mr D has shown 
that he was seeking higher growth in his portfolio but trying to minimise the downside risk. 
Im not persuaded that Mr D appreciated the extent to which this was achievable, particularly 
at a time when most assets were falling in value. 
Ive looked at the description Openwork gave of the balanced risk profile, which Mr D 
originally accepted. I think he agreed to this profile with an understanding that this would 
involve putting a portion of his portfolio at greater risk  mainly by investing in shares, but as 
recent years have shown bond investments are not immune to some fluctuations, sometimes 
significant over the shorter term.
The overall risk profile suggested for a particular investment can also depend on its purpose, 
the time horizon and capacity for loss. Mr D was seeking to beat inflation and Im satisfied 
that he would (or should) have understood that he needed to take a balanced risk approach 
to do that, and he had the capacity to do so. 
I take a different view to the investigator about what Mr Ds requests for the adviser to 
investigate certain assets say about his understanding of and approach to risk. There is 
evidence that some of the funds Mr D was interested in, including energy funds and China, 
were because the adviser first planted a seed in his mind. Mr D doesnt strike me as being 
particularly sophisticated in investment management. He doesnt work in that field, and he 
was liable to making inappropriate comparisons between what was intended as a diversified 
portfolio, and specific low-risk or highly concentrated investments that he thought he could 
make instead. 
Mr D mentioned on several occasions that his portfolio would have been outperformed by 
gold, or even cash in a high-interest account, but that misses the point that neither of these 
are diversified or appropriate for medium to long-term investment. The adviser did disabuse 
Mr D of his feelings towards gold. I see that Mr D did proceed to invest £300,000 of other 
money in this asset, and he may have been fortunate with his timing  but this can turn out 
to be a high risk move, as its very difficult to accurately predict future price movements. As 
the investigator commented, Mr D was often attracted to investments that were at the time 
going up - but there wasnt a sound logic that they would continue to do so.
What the adviser didnt do often enough was to emphasize to Mr D that going overweight 
into any particular asset was too great a risk for a profile that, at best, needed to be balanced 
overall. The portfolio had started out in 2016 for at least a medium term, over which 
underperforming funds or assets could well recover from their past falls (at a time when the 
stronger performers might have reversed). The adviser did sometimes say this, urging Mr D to sit tight  but often in funds hed already made changes to that hadnt worked. Mr D 
described the adviser as reactive and I think that is a fair description, in that he only agreed 
to take action at Mr Ds request on a portfolio that was intended to be left in place.
I dont think the adviser always needed to react, when there hadnt been enough time for 
cycles in the market to have their effect. He could simply have said this to Mr D more often. I 
appreciate this might have been difficult, as Mr D would likely have been dissatisfied with the 
advisers unwillingness to make short-term changes to the portfolio, but I still think that would 
have been suitable advice  and defendable in this complaint.
Ive taken into account that some of the market movements in recent years have been 
unprecedented, and at times both major types of asset (shares and bonds) have been 
falling. But I cant see how that gave the adviser any particular expertise in being able to pick 
something better. Particularly over the short term, past performance was not a reliable guide 
to the future, as his previous fund selections had proven. In my view more medium-term 
adaptations to the market situation would have been better addressed through the asset 
allocation in the model portfolio itself, which would then apply to Mr Ds portfolio, and through 
the actions of the fund managers themselves.
What risk profile should have been adopted from April 2018
Even when Mr Ds attitude to risk was assessed to have changed to speculative later in 
2018, the adviser noted this was still with no capacity for loss. In my view even these two 
competing measures couldnt have combined to produce an overall risk profile of more than 
balanced, and Mr Ds failure to confirm this assessment as requested by the adviser doesnt 
change that. Nor does the fact that the adviser had supplied him with a definition for the 
speculative category. 
In my view the adviser still had no mandate to proceed to take more risk on Mr Ds portfolio. 
He acknowledged this during 2019 by referring back to Mr Ds low capacity for loss and 
advocating a more cautious wait and see approach. In keeping with this, the M&G Global 
Government Bond fund was a lower risk addition to the portfolio at this time, although as Ive 
said above I dont think this did enough to lower the risk. The adviser documented that, in his 
view, the portfolio was still overall of balanced risk, but as Ive explained above I think it had 
strayed outside (and remained above) Mr Ds risk profile since April 2018.
There also seems to be a starker difference between the pensions risk profile compared 
with the other investments amounting to £90,000 Mr D made during 2020 into the investment 
account and then ISA  which were noted to be adventurous or speculative. As Mr Ds 
complaint focuses on the pension, I will simply comment that there isnt a particular reason 
why his risk profile had to be the same for both pots in 2020. He was increasingly likely to 
start accessing his pension in the coming years, whereas as Mr D was relatively asset-rich I 
dont have the impression he was going to access the other investments in as short a time 
frame  particularly an ISA which is intended to be held so as not to lose the tax breaks.
Again, some more specialised investments such as energy funds had crept into the pension 
portfolio by 2022, following further requests from Mr D for better performers. I think the same 
trend was continuing of the overall risk profile of the portfolio being distorted in the hunt for 
better growth. Openwork hasnt explained how it continued to ensure the pension portfolio 
was of balanced risk, and I think it was actually increasing at a time when Mr D was closer 
than ever before to retiring (he was nearly 75). It seems to me that the adventurous/ 
speculative risk profiles being adopted for other investments were at times being confused 
with the pension. And this further runs counter to the logic of Mr Ds portfolio potentially 
being needed to provide an income when he retired.Openworks responsiveness to Mr D and its level of service
Because I think Openwork should not have been reactive to short-term market movements  
let alone pro-active in the way Mr D suggests  I havent found reason to conclude that its 
delay in responding to his requests was itself a cause of further loss. I dont agree that this is 
conflating the service issue with his attitude to risk. 
The remedy this service would give for an overly risky portfolio construction is to replace its 
performance with that of a different portfolio more suited to Mr Ds attitude to risk. We do not 
provide redress that replicates steps an adviser or their client might have taken to time the 
markets. Not only does that approach rarely work, but it would be impossible to demonstrate, 
without hindsight, that one particular course of action would have been taken over another. 
So the redress I can award wouldnt alter in respect of individual instances of Openwork 
being slow to respond to Mr D or giving him incorrect information.
On the whole I agree with the investigator that Openwork was attentive to Mr Ds concerns, 
although not always in a way that was ultimately helpful to him. As Ive said above, in effect I 
dont think it should always have been expected to keep coming up with solutions for Mr D in 
a falling market  but in an attempt to keep him happy, it did. I can see there were also some 
occasions when it gave him incorrect information, which he had to point out. And I agree with 
Mr D that the adviser could have saved time by not entertaining the possibility that Mr Ds 
occupational pension trustee could pause his income.
Annuity income cant generally cease once in payment except on death, and it cant reduce 
except in defined circumstances (including where it is investment-linked or pension sharing 
on divorce). Other changes would be treated as an unauthorised payment, making it 
unheard of for a scheme trustee to agree to such a request. Im surprised that the adviser 
didnt know this  or couldnt establish it quickly with Openworks technical department. I 
think this was preferable to raising Mr Ds expectations that a solution might be found. Whilst 
I dont think this altered the advice Mr D ultimately should have received, I accept his point 
that this is one of the reasons why he lost faith in the adviser.
However, this and other clerical errors arent the only reason Mr D became dissatisfied. 
Crucially, not all of the problems Mr D had with Openworks approach to advising on his 
pension portfolio were of its own making. As Ive set out above I think Mr D misunderstood 
Openworks role, the purpose of medium to long term investment and Openworks inability to 
accurately predict what assets would perform in the shorter term (in a way that even fund 
managers themselves would struggle to do). Mr D requested that Openwork dealt with him 
particular ways, such as setting details out in writing before meetings and keeping all emails 
in one chain, but it was under no obligation to agree to this.
Importantly, Mr D had been expressing concerns about the performance of his portfolio since 
at least 2017 and as Ive said, by 2018 these extended into Openworks role in advising on it. 
Whilst Openwork didnt treat those concerns as a complaint, Mr D has shown in his 
comments at the time that he knew he could raise those concerns with our service. Had he 
done so, we would have asked Openwork to deal with them as a complaint. Mr D also had 
the option during that time of looking for a different adviser as he was evidently unhappy with 
Openwork over an extended period. For all these reasons, the award I think I could fairly 
make for the distress and inconvenience Openwork has caused Mr D, in addition to any 
financial loss, is not going to be significant.
Mr Ds vulnerability and unilateral switch to cash
 
Ive taken the same view as the investigator on these aspects. Im not persuaded that 
specifically being in the later stages of accumulating a pension (or even though he hasnt suggested as much, his advancing years), renders Mr D a vulnerable consumer under the 
FCAs guidance. I dont think he came across to Openwork as having an impaired ability to 
address his financial planning  as Ive noted, he took exception to any such suggestion. 
And his extensive assets and income at the time is contrary to any indication that he had low 
resilience to cope with financial or emotional shocks.
Mr D didnt however need to meet the definition of a vulnerable consumer for Openwork to 
need to pay due regard to his proximity to retirement, and to the signs he hadnt understood 
or appreciated its approach to building a portfolio over the medium term. It was required to 
take these factors into account in order to treat him fairly and provide suitable advice under 
the regulators principles and rules. 
I must point out to Mr D that the Consumer Duty to which hes referred does not come into 
force until this July. For the same reason, the FCAs November 2022 consultation on 
broadening access to financial advice is not relevant here. And neither of these (or the six 
outcomes of the fair treatment of consumers which were on the FCAs website during Mr Ds 
advice) have the effect of requiring an adviser to shield their client from investment loss - 
providing they have assessed that their client is willing and capable of accepting that loss, 
which Im satisfied is the case here with Openworks categorisation of Mr D as balanced.
Mr D had commented at various times about other assets (including cash) that he thought 
had performed better than his portfolio  and questions were sometimes posed about 
whether he should switch to them. Nonetheless, the adviser had consistently advocated 
against this and encouraged Mr D to stay put. For example when Mr D suggested this in 
August 2018, the advisers response of no need to dash to cash just yet. 
Ive considered whether, if Openwork had maintained a portfolio that stayed within a 
balanced profile for Mr D throughout the period since 2016, it would need to de-risk it further 
in the period running up to 2022  given Mr Ds advancing years and likely more imminent 
retirement. This is around the time at which Mr D says he would have liked to lower risk 
anyway because of the Ukraine-Russia conflict, but I think that is largely coincidental. I share 
the investigators concern that Mr D couldnt have accurately forecast the impact (and timing) 
of this conflict.
In some cases, I might have said that if there was a definite planned retirement date, there 
could have been a plan to move some assets into, say, bonds to cater for this. However 
there are two complications here. Firstly, the compensation this service provides takes a 
broad-brush approach in order to resolve cases quickly and informally. We would ordinarily 
use the same overall benchmark throughout the period up to retirement, but one that was 
mindful of a potential lowering of capacity to take risk closer to retirement - rather than 
modelling a number of switches. And in this case Im satisfied that when the advice began in 
2016, a balanced risk profile was appropriate.
But secondly, in Mr Ds case, it would be very difficult to anticipate when any further switches 
should have taken place when he was himself not sure when he would retire. Ive had regard 
for the fact that the adviser did hold some sums back in cash right up to the point Mr D 
switched unilaterally into cash  and I think that was sufficient mitigation against Mr D 
potentially deciding to retire at short notice. So it follows that I consider it would have been 
appropriate for those sums in the pension that were not in cash to remain in the Graphene 
Balanced portfolio over the period up to when Mr D made his own switch to cash.
I think some of the investment switches the adviser made might have exacerbated Mr Ds 
losses (or led Mr D to think they had)  this will be clarified when Openwork carries out the 
calculation Ive set out below. But even if he has suffered losses on its advice, I dont think 
this changes the fundamental point that when he switched to cash in June 2022, Mr D was acting against Openworks advice. So it cant be responsible for his decision to make that 
switch specifically.
Responses to the provisional decision
Mr D felt he had already thoroughly input into this services review of his complaint and 
appreciated the outcome. However, he added that he has now incurred fees in moving his 
funds to a different adviser (0.5% initially and an annual charge that is about 0.7% higher 
than the Openwork charge). He says that had Openworks adviser engaged with him 
adequately before he switched to cash, this action would not have been necessary. 
Openwork sent us a letter including the advisers own comments. Ill summarise this:
- He gave advice that was specific to Mr D but Ive followed a generic, one size fits all 
assessment.
- Mr D was a highly educated and intelligent investor, taking a logical and scientific 
approach to investing which meant he wanted to be actively involved.
- The cull of investments in 2018 didnt result in him going outside a balanced risk 
profile overall, because not all the proposed funds were used (Ive corrected this in 
the background above).
- The funds encashed only amounted to around £128,000. Approximately 60% were 
reinvested back into better performing bond type funds. Approximately £50,000 was 
slightly risk uprated (approximately only 10% of the pension drawdown account).
- The replaced bond funds were underperforming against their benchmark, and by that 
point represented high risk. Mr D pointed out a newspaper article at the time showing 
these funds had not factored in future interest rate rises.
- Mr D made an informed decision to cull these funds, but the adviser could not be 
expected to have a crystal ball. Mr D had also been pushing to reinvest the cash 
which in its view he should continue to hold.
- Openwork did on occasion discuss speculative funds with Mr D that it didnt 
ultimately him in, to head off hindsight recriminations.
- The direct, critical tone in Mr Ds emails was in contrast to his manner on the phone. 
The comment I am a pensioner and cannot afford losses wasnt intended literally 
and is borne out by him remaining with Openwork for so long.
- When asked, Mr D had told the adviser he had no capacity for loss at all. With 
£2.17m investments including cash, and over £2m in two properties, employed 
income of about £100,000 and total DB and state pensions of about £50,000, that 
didnt make sense. 
- The problem was Mr Ds perception of his capacity for loss. He wanted no loss and 
no volatility, but didnt accept the limited returns of such an approach. He knew this 
was unrealistic, and was prepared to invest in speculative investments like VCTs.
- I was wrong to say that the adviser introduced the idea of Far East investments or 
energy funds. Mr D consistently made these suggestions when these funds had 
already risen and it was too late to take advantage of much of the benefit.
- Some of Mr Ds demands were unreasonable. He was unable himself to confine 
discussions to the single email chain he wanted.
The adviser provided a list, which Ive noted, of the occasions on which he considered Mr D 
had demonstrated he was a more speculative investor. He also thought the comparison I 
asked Openwork to carry out (and set out below) would show there was no loss against 
Mr D having remained in the Graphene balanced portfolio. Openwork did say that it was 
prepared to pay the £300 I proposed for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr D.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D hasnt provided many comments for me to consider, but that is instructive in itself. I 
hope he is able to recognise that what he was asking the adviser (and this service) to do in 
obtaining a rising return in markets that were often falling, just wasnt realistic or achievable. 
And I agree with what the adviser has said on this point.
Whilst the way I proposed that this case should be redressed (by assuming Mr D remained 
in the Graphene balanced portfolio) might suggest a generic, one size fits all approach, I 
can assure Openwork that this is not the case. Rather, it is simply that I cannot give Mr D the 
returns he wanted but at the same time I need to be satisfied that the changes the adviser 
made to his portfolio  which I didnt consider needed to be made and in some respects 
were ill-thought through  havent caused him loss.
There is a disagreement between the parties about the extent to which Mr D wanted to be 
actively involved in his investments. I dont accept Mr Ds point that he only became involved 
because the adviser in his view wasnt acting. There is enough evidence to show that he had 
views, sometimes prompted by press articles, on where he should invest. I accept 
Openworks comments that this might have triggered the discussions on the Far East, 
energy and for that matter bond funds.
However, I have to return to the theme of my provisional decision which was that Openwork 
was Mr Ds adviser with his best interests in mind. So it didnt always have to take action 
whenever he queried the investment strategy. And, in making my comments about the bond 
funds being sold, and not replaced to the same extent, I wasnt oblivious to the fact that 
there could legitimately have been concerns about bond investments looking riskier once 
interest rates seemed to be at the bottom. But in my view a balanced investment approach 
required more diversification than Mr D ended up with in his portfolio. 
My main point was that Mr D was overexposed to equities to the detriment of a range of 
other assets (which would reasonably still include some bonds). The adviser has said that 
At the time of the cull [April 2018] I did a weighted mean analysis based on the asset 
allocation within the fund fact sheets and followed up with e-values report and found that our 
actual proposal was indeed Balanced in nature and remained so. 
No more evidence has been given of this analysis. But it seems somewhat at odds with what 
he said at the outset of the complaint, namely that and Mr D was told that the cull would 
move him to an adventurous rating. And with Openworks need to often repeat that Mr Ds 
willingness to speculate with other investments justified him taking more risk with his 
pension. All of this suggests it was known at the time the risk level was going to increase. 
My analysis wasnt based on the specific list of funds culled (which the adviser has since 
corrected), but on overall snapshots of the drawdown pot, in May 2019 and April 2022. I 
remain of the view that Mr D was overweight in equities for his balanced risk profile, and 
thats why Ive asked Openwork to carry out a loss comparison with him remaining in the 
Graphene balanced portfolio.
I hope Openwork will be able to see that I havent taken Mr Ds comments literally about 
wanting to take no risk, or having no capacity for loss. I agree that they dont tally with his 
other investment habits and assets he held. But for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision, I think these should have raised concerns about his understanding of how his portfolio was designed to work, and called into question whether this was the appropriate 
time to be increasing risk  whilst all the time he neared the point at which he would retire.
Regarding the costs of employing a new adviser, I noted in my provisional decision that Mr D 
has had the option ever since 2017 of looking for a different adviser as he was evidently 
unhappy with Openwork over an extended period. Whilst Ive questioned Openworks 
approach in advising Mr D, that doesnt necessarily mean he would have been satisfied with 
what would likely have amounted to even less frequent changes in his investments. 
Ultimately, I think Mr D was looking for a different type of service that Openwork couldnt, 
and wouldnt reasonably have been expected to, provide for him. So, Im not persuaded that 
it should reimburse him for the costs of moving to another adviser. 
Putting things right
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Mr D as close as possible into the position he 
would have been in, if Openwork had given him suitable advice on those sums which were 
not held in cash in his pension portfolio whilst it was held on the Zurich Wrap up to 22 June 
2022. Ive already said that I think the Graphene Balanced model portfolio was appropriate 
from the outset.
I require Openwork to calculate the notional value that the non-cash component of Mr Ds 
drawdown fund would have had on 22 June 2022, if hed remained in the Graphene 
Balanced model portfolio  and compare that with the actual value on 22 June 2002. If the 
notional value is higher than the actual value, Mr D has suffered a loss equivalent to the 
difference.
If the comparison identifies that there is no loss, then this indicates that Mr D hasnt been 
disadvantaged by the adviser destructing the portfolio so that it contained higher-risk 
elements than I consider he should have been prepared to accept. 
Its appropriate to give Openwork the opportunity to obtain details of how the non-cash 
component of Mr Ds portfolio would have performed in line with Omnis Graphene Balanced, 
as Mr D was informed that Openwork gave restricted advice on providing model portfolios 
from this company. So that enables me to identify that this is where he would most likely 
have been on suitable advice. 
However if Openwork doesnt have the capability of obtaining this notional value it may, as 
an alternative, refer to the FTSE Private Investor Income Total Return Index. Data on this 
index can be obtained from FTSE and I consider it would be closest in comparison to the 
Graphene Balanced portfolio.
Any switches into the portfolio from the cash component or switches back out to cash, 
should be factored into the notional value with effect from the date they took place.
If there is a loss, Openworks responsibility to compensate Mr D only extends to updating 
that loss suffered as at the date Mr D switched into cash (22 June 2022), to the present day, 
in line with how his actual pension portfolio has now performed since that date  whether it 
has been in cash or something else over some/all of that time.
The refund of fees Openwork has already offered of £1,541 must separately be paid as 
compensation and also updated in line with how the actual pension portfolio has performed 
since the date(s) these fees were wrongly removed from the portfolio. If any further advice 
fees have been taken by Openwork that shouldnt have been, these should also be included 
in this sum.As the total compensation represents funds from which Mr D would be yet to take an 
income, it may be notionally reduced to account for tax which he would have had to pay on 
pension income, but wont now have to pay if this compensation is paid to him as a cash 
sum. I consider it would be reasonable to notionally reduce the total compensation by 20% 
on the assumption that Mr D will be a basic rate taxpayer once he has stopped working. 
Mr D may, if he wishes and to the extent that he has sufficient allowances, pay some or all of 
the compensation back into the pension fund himself and obtain basic rate tax relief on it.
Im also making an award for the distress and inconvenience caused by Openwork 
unnecessarily increasing the risk in Mr Ds portfolio, and some isolated instances of its poor 
service including its attempt to pause the payment of Mr Ds occupational pension. In my 
view an award of £300 for the upset Openwork has caused Mr D would be appropriate, and 
consistent with the range of awards our ombudsmen make in the circumstances here. 
I note that Openwork is already prepared to pay this sum, but I would remind it of the 
additional award Im making in relation to the advice fees, and the need to carry out the 
calculation set out above. Some evidence of Openworks calculations so far were provided 
with its response to the provisional decision, but Im not in a position to tell whether these are 
based only on the non-cash component of the pension portfolio, as set out in the steps 
above. Openwork will need to provide and explain its calculations to Mr D.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint and require Openwork Limited to calculate and pay him 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman