DRN-3737766
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Santander UK Plc has compensated him after he was the 
victim of ID theft.
What happened
In December 2021, Mr H discovered a bank account had been opened in his name by a third 
party and he then saw theyd taken out a loan as well. He reported this to Santander and it 
said it would investigate. Mr H went to get an Agreement in Principle (AIP) in February 2022 
so he and his partner could find a house and obtain a mortgage. However he wasnt able to 
get an AIP due to the arrears on his credit file from the fraudulent loan.
Santander didnt complete its investigations until May 2022, when it accepted the accounts 
had been fraudulently opened and agreed to delete them and update Mr Hs credit file. It 
offered him £500 for the inconvenience this caused. Mr H didnt accept this and asked our 
service to review the outcome.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. She felt the compensation awarded was fair 
for the impact we knew this had on Mr H. He asked for the difference between the rate hed 
seen in February 2022 and the rate he later obtained after his credit file had been updated, 
over £90,000. However she didnt agree there was any guarantee Mr H wouldve received 
that rate, or found a property at that time. Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint and said the financial impact he was reporting was foreseeable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
In order for me to uphold Mr Hs complaint I would have to find it most likely that he 
wouldve got the mortgage rate hes quoted from February 2022. But he hasnt been able 
to provide evidence to show this is the case.
Mr H wasnt able to obtain an AIP in February 2022, I accept at least partially, if not 
wholly, due to the issues with his credit file. But its important to note that an AIP in itself 
doesnt guarantee a rate, it simply sets out a mortgage lender is, in principle, willing to 
lend the amount stated. The rates for this lending are set later, when a property is found 
and an offer accepted, so then the exact amount being lent is known. 
Mortgage providers consider a number of factors when deciding to lend. And the 
mortgage rates on offer can change frequently, so Mr H being aware of a rate that was 
available in February isnt enough to say he wouldve then got this rate on application. 
And in order to apply for a rate Mr H wouldve had to be a number of steps further on in 
the house purchasing process than he seemingly was in February 2022.
Mr H has stated in his email to the broker in February 2022 that they will have to put the 
house search on hold until Santander has resolved his credit file, so this suggests they 
hadnt yet found a property. We cant know how long it would have taken Mr H and his 
partner to find a property and then have an offer accepted. This process can take 
months, so factoring this in, its possible that he wouldnt have been in the position to 
actually apply for a mortgage  the point when a rate is locked in  for some time. And 
we simply dont know what rates wouldve been offered to him at that time. 
And as our investigator explained to Mr H, even if they had found a property and got a 
mortgage agreed, unfortunately many things can still go wrong in the purchasing 
process. And mortgage lenders dont have to honour an earlier agreed rate if substantial 
changes do need to be made to a mortgage offer. They can request a new application is 
made, resulting in the agreed rate being lost. 
I fully accept Mr Hs frustration as its clear that the delays in updating his credit file did 
impact his ability to look for and offer on properties in February 2022, as he couldnt get 
an AIP. But I cant safely say what the impact, if any, was beyond this. So Im satisfied 
that Santanders offer of £500 is fair for the known and measurable impact we can 
identify in this case. I think this covers the distress of having to pause the house search. 
Beyond this, we cant say that Mr Hs ability to progress his life was actually delayed, as 
its possible they may not have secured a property until the one they ultimately did buy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman