DRN-1751389
The complaint
Mr P complains that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit (SNC)) lent to him 
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr P was given a SafetyNet facility in December 2018. This was a running credit account 
where a consumer could either request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would be 
deposited into their bank account once their account balance fell below a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing.
The initial credit limit given to Mr P in December 2018 was £300. The credit limit was then 
increased three times  the last increase being to £640 on 8 March 2019. Mr Ps last 
drawdown was on 16 March 2019. 
In September 2019 Mr P informed SNC about his financial difficulties. At this point SNC 
placed a hold on the account and it seems that an agreement was reached for Mr P to pay 
£42 per month towards the outstanding balance. Based on the information given to us by 
SNC it appears an outstanding balance remains.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ps complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried
out before granting the facility were proportionate and that the information SNC gathered
about Mr Ps circumstances suggested he would be able to afford the repayments. So, she 
didnt think it was wrong of SNC to offer the facility.
The adjudicator also didnt think the way Mr P used his facility was concerning until
8 March 2016. By this point, the adjudicator didnt think further drawdowns shouldve been 
allowed as she thought Mr P appeared to be struggling to manage his commitments and had 
become reliant on the facility.
SNC didnt agree with the assessment. It says that the facility isnt intended to be used as a 
one-off short-term loan but more like a credit card where the outstanding balance is more 
important than the number of individual uses. SNC also says that Mr P was only drawing 
down what he required (rather than taking the full credit limit).  
Mr P appears to accept what the adjudicator has said.
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
at the time the loans were given.
Both Mr P and SNC appear to accept that it wasnt unreasonable for the facility to have
been approved or for the first 37 drawdowns to have been lent (through to 7 March 2019). 
As such, it seems that this lending is no longer in dispute, so I wont be making a finding
about it. So instead, this decision will focus on whether SNC did anything wrong when it 
granted the drawdowns from 9 March 2019 following the final increase in the facilitys credit 
limit. But I have kept the other drawdowns in mind when thinking about the overall lending 
relationship between SNC and Mr P.
When SNC agreed the drawdown on 9 March 2016 there was an expectation that it would 
review and monitor how Mr P was using the facility. Indeed, the guidance at the time that 
can be found in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 6.7.2 says;
A firm must monitor a customers repayment record and take appropriate action where there 
are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties.
What this means is that it wasnt enough for SNC to just carry out an assessment before the 
facility was approved or where there was an increase in the credit limit. It needed to continue 
to monitor how Mr P used the facility and then step in and provide help when or if it could 
see he was, or was likely, having financial difficulties.
By monitoring, SNC could check whether it was still reasonable for it to believe that Mr P 
would be able to repay the outstanding balance over a reasonable period of time  which is 
how the facility was designed to be used. But if Mr P wasnt using the facility as intended, 
this could indicate to SNC that he was having wider financial problems.
In order to see whether I think it was fair to allow Mr P to continue to drawdown, Ive
considered the relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value of
those payments, and then when Mr P returned for further borrowing. After all, if Mr P
was drawing down similar sums within days of SNC taking a payment from his account this 
ought to have indicated that SNC taking the full payment from Mr Ps account was causing 
him to once again borrow the funds that SNC had just taken.
Having reviewed the same information that SNC had, I agree with our adjudicator that there 
was clear information contained within the bank statements that SNC had access to which 
ought to have led SNC to decline Mr Ps request for any further drawdowns from 9 March 
2019. I think SNC ought to have been reasonably aware that by this point Mr P wasnt using 
the facility in a sustainable manner. Ill explain why.
The loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation doesnt
automatically mean that a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. The industry 
regulator defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and that the customer 
should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments 
and without having to borrow further to do so. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Mr P drew down the full credit limit (£300) on 7 December 2018 when the facility started. 
Following 7 drawdowns (each between £20 and £100) over the following 10 days, he then 
repaid the outstanding balance in full on 1 January 2019. In January 2019, Mr P continued to borrow through eight drawdowns of between £20 and 
£80. These were over a relatively short period at the beginning of that month                           
(3 January to 9 January 2019). On 9 January 2019, the facilitys credit limit was increased to 
£340 and the two drawdowns that day (£80 and £60) took Mr Ps balance up to the new limit.     
There was a similar pattern of borrowing in February 2019. Following a payment on 1 
February 2019 of £313.06 which reduced Mr Ps balance to around £99, he drew down 10 
times over one week  through payments of up to £50. During this period Mr Ps credit limit 
also increased to £490. A payment of £118.18 was then taken followed by a further two 
drawdowns on 15 February 2019 which took his outstanding balance to over £500. Following 
a further payment of around £89, two further drawdowns increased Mr Ps outstanding to 
over £500 once again by 23 February 2019  a sign that he wasnt repaying the outstanding 
balance sustainably. 
After repayment of the outstanding balance on 1 March 2019, Mr Ps drawdowns noticeably 
followed the same pattern as previous months  he drew down seven times in a short period 
(between 1 March and 7 March 2019) through payments of between £40 to £100.  
As the adjudicator has pointed out, Mr P also appeared to be relying on short-term loans in 
order to manage his finances. Indeed, by 9 March it seems that Mr P had at least six 
outstanding short term loans. 
SNC wouldve been aware of this through his bank statements. I can see Mr Ps outstanding 
debt was also broadly increasing. And on 8 March 2019 his credit limit increased further to 
£640. I can also see he then continued to make repayments to short-term lenders, 
suggesting to me that he was having problems managing his money.
Looking at everything together, I think there were clear signs that Mr P was having
financial difficulties, and this was reflected by the fact that he wasnt using the facility as
SNC intended. So, I agree with the adjudicator that Mr P had most likely become reliant on 
the facility because its most likely he was struggling to maintain control of his finances.
I think this is something that SNC ought reasonably to have been aware of had it reviewed 
and monitored the facility through the bank statements that it had access to. So, I think that 
by 8 March 2019 there was a clear risk that any further drawdowns were not going to be 
repaid in a sustainable manner.
SNC has said that the facilitys is like a credit card with the outstanding balance being more 
important than the number of individual uses and that Mr P was only drawing down what he 
required. Firstly, the SNC facility isnt a credit card and, secondly, in this case I think it 
wouldve been reasonable not to allow further drawdowns and to have allowed Mr P to repay 
his balance over a reasonable period of time  as the facility allowed because SNC 
shouldve been concerned about the way Mr P was using the facility and what it was seeing 
in his bank statements.
So overall, I think SNC was wrong to allow Mr P to continue to draw down on the facility
from 9 March 2016.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr P, SNC should:
remove any unpaid interest fees and charges from the current outstanding balance 
and then refund all the interest, fees and charges applied to drawdowns from and 
including 9 March 2016;add interest at 8% per year simple on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the
above refund is sufficient to repay what Mr P owes, then the remainder of the
refund should be paid directly to him;
however, if the refund above isnt sufficient to repay the outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Mr P should try and come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in order 
to repay what is owed. And Id remind SNC of its obligation to treat Mr P fairly;
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file from 9 March 2019. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman