DRN-4522674
The complaint
A company Ill call W complains that Ulster Bank Limited (Ulster Bank) blocked, then closed 
its account without saying why.
W is represented by its directors, Mr & Mrs W.
What happened
On 12 January 2023, Ulster Bank blocked Ws account while it carried out a review. Mrs W 
called Ulster Bank and visited her local branch to find out what was happening, but she said 
she received awful service and that she was told to visit a food bank when she asked how 
she was supposed to feed her family without access to the money in Ws account.
Mrs W complained, but Ulster Bank didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of Ws account and that the account was now fully functional, 
having been blocked from 12 to 16 January 2023. 
Ulster Bank then issued a notice to close Ws account on 26 January 2023. It gave 60 days 
notice of the closure, but didnt explain the reasons for its decision. Mrs W wasnt happy with 
Ulster Banks actions, so she brought Ws complaint to our service.
Our investigator said Ulster Bank was entitled to block and review Ws account, and that she 
was satisfied it had acted in accordance with its terms of business when it closed Ws 
account. But she hadnt seen sufficient evidence from Ulster Bank to justify its actions, so 
she couldnt be satisfied it had treated W fairly. Because of that, she awarded W £100 in 
compensation.
Ulster Bank accepted our investigators findings, but Mrs W didnt. She said the 
compensation didnt fairly reflect the distress and inconvenience Ulster Bank had caused 
and said the final outcome letters were still pending. She also felt it was unfair that Ulster 
Bank didnt have to disclose the reasons behind its decision, and she was concerned that 
Ulster Bank had registered markers against W, because W was unable to open a new 
account elsewhere.
Ulster Bank then provided further information to support its actions, which Ive considered 
before writing this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 1 December. In it, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review.
So, in order to make an award in favour of W, I would need to be satisfied that Ulster Bank 
acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. Having looked at the evidence, Im 
satisfied Ulster Bank acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked 
Ws account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and conditions that 
governed the relationship between Ulster Bank and W.
After our investigator issued her findings, Ulster provided further information to explain the 
reasons for its actions. And, having reviewed the same (along with the information Ulster 
Bank provided previously), Im satisfied Ulster Bank was complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations, that it completed the review in a reasonable timeframe, and that it 
didnt treat W unfairly.
I understand why Mrs W is concerned that Ulster Bank wont share its reasons with her. But 
the nature of Ulster Banks obligations mean that it is important Ulster Bank can complete 
account reviews, without having to disclose information to its customers.
This is necessary for Ulster Bank to protect its customers, itself, and the wider financial 
system in the United Kingdom. So, while I cant reasonably tell Ulster Bank to disclose its 
rationale to Mr and Mrs W, I hope they can take comfort from the fact that I have 
independently reviewed the information Ulster Bank provided, and that I have assessed its 
rationale for blocking the account. And having done so, Im satisfied it did nothing wrong.
I understand Mrs W was unhappy with Ulster Banks treatment of her during this time, and 
Ulster Banks suggestion that she visit a food bank. But Im not minded to tell Ulster Bank to 
pay any compensation in this regard. Im not persuaded Ulster Bank intended to insult Mrs 
W, and in any event, I cant make an award in favour of Mrs W, because she is not Ulster 
Banks customer: W is. And because W is a limited company, it cannot experience distress 
as a result of comments made to its directors. I accept that the block and lack of information 
would have caused W inconvenience, but because that inconvenience didnt flow from an 
error on Ulster Banks part, I wont ask it to compensate W.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. Section 8.4 of the terms 
and conditions of Ws account say that Ulster Bank can close the account by giving 60 days 
notice. There is no obligation for Ulster Bank to disclose the reasons for its decision to W.
Ulster Banks notice to close letter was dated 26 January 2023, and informed W that its 
account would be closed on or after 27 March 2023 (i.e. 60 days after the date of the notice). 
So, it follows that Ulster Bank correctly followed its process and gave W the required notice. 
And, while Ulster Bank isnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its decision to W, I have 
looked at the evidence it provided our service to support its decision. And having done so, 
Im satisfied that it did and that it was entitled to close Ws account in the manner it did. And 
that it didnt treat W unfairly. I recognise that Mrs W would prefer to understand the reasons 
in more detail but again I hope she can take some comfort from the fact that I have 
independently reviewed its decision to make sure Ulster Bank complied with its duties.
Because I dont think Ulster Bank treated W unfairly by closing its account, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to tell it to compensate W for any issues it experienced as a result of the  
closure. I understand W struggled to open an account elsewhere after the closure, but Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that is because of Ulster Banks actions.
Our investigator told Mrs W that Ulster Bank had confirmed it hadnt registered any credit 
markers against W, and explained that Mrs W would need to demonstrate such markers 
have been recorded in order for our service to consider the point. Mrs W said she would 
provide evidence, but nothing has been submitted at the date of this decision, so I cant take 
any further action in this regard. However I will consider any evidence Mrs W submits in 
response to this provisional decision.
Finally, in Mrs Ws response to our investigators findings, she said that final outcome letters 
from Ulster Bank were outstanding. But I can see Ulster Bank issued its final response to 
Ws complaint on 18 January 2023. Theres no obligation for a bank to respond in detail to a 
customers complaint, so it might just be that Mrs W feels parts of Ws complaint should have 
been addressed in writing but havent. However, Mrs W now has the opportunity to clarify 
her complaint in this regard, and I will consider her submissions before issuing my final 
decision.
I invited both parties to submit any further information or evidence they wished me to 
consider as part of my final decision. Ulster Bank didnt wish to add anything further, and Mrs 
W replied with comments on certain points of my provisional decision. However, having read 
Mrs Ws reply, nothing shes provided changes my provisional findings, so I see no reason to 
change them.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman