DRN-2068096
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society incorrectly reported missed loan payments 
on his credit file. Mr B says he was unable to remortgage as a result. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on setting out the reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
- Nationwide accepts it made a mistake that led to missed payments being reported on 
Mr Bs credit file and it took steps to correct its error. Nationwide apologised and paid 
Mr B £300 to reflect the impact of its mistake. 
- Mr B says Nationwides error meant he was unable to remortgage. Our investigator 
recently contacted Mr B and asked him for evidence that showed Nationwides 
missed payments had led to remortgage applications being declined. We also asked 
for evidence of Mr Bs losses. But Mr B hasnt been back in touch or forwarded any 
new evidence.  
- As we have no evidence that the incorrect arrears information led to higher borrowing 
costs for Mr B or a financial loss, Ive focused on whether the £300 Nationwide paid 
is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
- I agree that the information reported was wrong and its clear it caused Mr B a lot of 
concern. But Nationwide took steps to correct Mr Bs credit file and it has paid £300 
to apologise. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied that the £300 Nationwide 
has paid fairly reflects the impact of its error on him. As a result, Im not telling 
Nationwide to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Nationwide Building Society has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman