DRN-3656895
The complaint
H, a limited company, has complained about the settlement offered by MS Amlin Insurance 
SE in settlement of its business interruption insurance claim.
What happened
H runs a business which employs several staff. 
It made a claim to MS Amlin after the business had to close due to lockdown restrictions. It 
furloughed its staff (granted them temporary leave of absence).
MS Amlin accepted the claim. But it deducted from the claim settlement £6,772 being the 
amount of furlough payments that H had received from the Government. H didnt think that 
was fair. MS Amlin said it was entitled to make such a deduction under the terms of the 
policy.
H brought its complaint to this service. Our Investigator didnt uphold it. She thought MS 
Amlin was entitled to deduct the furlough payments under the terms of the policy.
As H didnt agree, it asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Hs business. Since MS Amlin has accepted Hs claim, the issue for me to decide is whether 
its fair and reasonable to deduct from the claim settlement the amount H received from the 
Government in respect of furlough payments. I think the settlement was fair and reasonable. 
Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Hs policy say that for business interruption claims MS Amlin will 
pay for loss of gross revenue. The settlement is based on the loss of gross revenue due to a 
reduction in gross revenue and an increase in the cost of working less any sum saved 
during the indemnity period for the charges and expenses of the business payable out of 
gross revenue.
I think the above wording makes it clear that any charges and expenses saved during the 
indemnity period would be deducted from the claim settlement. 
The wages H paid its staff during lockdown were a charge and expense of the business.
Under the Coronavirus Job Retention Scheme (CJRS) employers such as H could apply for 
a grant from the Government to cover a percentage of their wages bill. I understand that H 
received £6,772 in respect of a grant under this scheme which it does not have to repay. 
That represents a saving on its wages bill and that in turn is a saving in the charges and 
expenses of the business. 
I appreciate Hs point that normally an insurer would pay staff costs as part of a business 
interruption claim. But it doesnt seem fair to me to require an insurer to pay for an expense 
of a business for which the business has already been compensated from elsewhere.
In reaching a decision, amongst other things I have to consider relevant law and I think the 
following judgment is helpful when considering this complaint: Stonegate Pub Company Ltd 
v MS Amlin Corporate Member Ltd and others [2022] EWHC 2548 (Comm). Thats because, 
one of the issues considered by the Court was whether payments received by a policyholder 
under the CJRS were to be taken into account when calculating the sums recoverable under 
the policy. The Court found that payments received by businesses for furlough should be 
taken into account when calculating any indemnity as they did diminish the insured loss. 
So, I think MS Amlin was entitled under the terms of the policy to deduct the amount H 
received in respect of furlough payments from its settlement of Hs business interruption 
claim. The fact that other uninsured businesses have received payments under the CJRS 
doesnt mean that it was unfair of MS Amlin to take these payments into account.
Although this isnt the outcome H was hoping for, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require MS Amlin to increase its settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman