DRN-4141003
The complaint
Mrs C complains that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as PrePay Solutions have 
charged her a monthly inactivity fee without telling her.
What happened
Mrs C says she opened the PrePay account some years ago but found out that it had 
charged her a £3 monthly inactivity fee. She says she was not told about the fee and didnt 
receive any account statements. Mrs C says she should have been told at the outset there 
was a fee and would like the £100 deducted from her account refunded.
PrePay says its account terms and conditions make clear that a £3 monthly inactivity fee is 
charged 12 months after an account is opened. It says it provides that information in a user 
guide which is available with the card. Prepay says the account card was bought in March 
2016 but Mrs C didnt use the card despite loading it with 110 Euros.
Mrs C brought her complaint to us, and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the account terms and conditions as well as the agreement made clear there was a 
£3 monthly inactivity fee and that it was correctly charged. The investigator thought there 
was no obligation to tell Mrs C about the fee each month or sent her account statements.
Mrs C doesnt accept that view and in summary maintains she wasnt made aware of the 
account terms and conditions and says she didnt see the user agreement.
PrePay says the account card is sold with the user agreement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs C will be disappointed by my decision and appreciate how strongly she feels 
about what took place.
I have looked carefully at PrePays account terms and conditions which are contained in the 
user agreement which it says is provided at the point of sale of the account card. Im 
satisfied the agreement makes clear that a £3 monthly inactivity fee is charged after a year 
of the account being opened. And that is what took place. So, I dont think PrePay made a 
mistake or acted unfairly by making the charge when Mrs C didnt use the card.
The key issue is that Mrs C says she was unaware of the charge and user agreement. I 
appreciate that the account was opened in 2016 but think it more likely than not that the user 
agreement was provided with the account card. I also think it unlikely that a customer would 
simply obtain the card without the relevant instructions and information which is contained in 
the user agreement. I can also see that the information about the fee is prominently 
displayed in the user agreement. So, whilst I appreciate Mrs C says she didnt receive the 
user agreement, I think on balance that it was provided and that it told customers about the 
fee. I also think it difficult to see how a customer would know how to operate the account 
without the user agreement and think it likely on balance that Mrs C would have requested 
such information in any event if the user agreement wasnt provided.
Im satisfied that PrePay is not obliged to provide annual statements to customers. And that 
this was Mrs Cs account and so her responsibility to manage it. It follows that I dont think 
PrePay has made a mistake and has acted in line with the user agreement. I cant fairly 
order it in those circumstances to refund the fee as Mrs C would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman