DRN-2787737
The complaint
Mr D complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds (Red Sands) 
decision to decline cover for his pet insurance claim. Mr D wants Red Sands to reimburse 
him the treatment costs hes paid. 
What happened
Mr Ds pet dog developed a mass within its mouth which required surgery. Mr D then made a 
claim to Red Sands which was declined on the basis of a policy exclusion. Mr D complained 
and Red Sands responded and referred to Mr Ds pet dogs clinical notes which they said 
showed the claim related to dental or gum treatment  and this was excluded from cover. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr D. He thought that Red Sands hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining Mr Ds claim. Mr D disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr D will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ds pet insurance policy. This sets out the terms and conditions and 
under the section What is not covered?, it says Any dental or gum treatment. The claim 
submitted by Mr Ds dogs veterinary practice was for Mass on left side of mouth. Red 
Sands declined to cover Mr Ds claim on the basis it relates to dental and/or gum treatment. 
So, Ive looked into whether Red Sands decision is fair and reasonable. 
I can see from Mr Ds dogs clinical notes, there is an entry which says, just behind upper 
right canine there is a small 0.5x0.5cm growth on the gum line, looks like just an epulus 
[sic]. The vet recommends removal and, following the surgery, there is a note which says, 
small mass on left upper side of mouth as seen previously, just behind canine. Cut away 
with scalpel.. There is a later note which says, made aware of mass being benign epulis 
Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all vets are required to take the utmost 
care when writing records to ensure they are clear and accurate. It is therefore reasonable 
for an insurer to rely on the clinical notes as being a true and accurate representation of 
what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. The clinical notes are a 
contemporaneous account of Mr Ds dogs clinical history. And, the clinical notes refer to the 
problem appearing on Mr Ds dogs gum.   
I can see the veterinary practice contact Red Sands with further comments in support of the 
claim. The treating vet says they believe Red Sands decision to decline the claim based on 
the policy exclusion is incorrect as there was no dental issue and no dental work carried out. 
They say Mr Ds dog was treated for a mass on the oral mucosa which was surgically 
removed and then sent away for histopathology. This is similar to how a mass would be 
removed and sent away from any other part of the body. I would not classify this as dental 
work. 
I have taken into account these comments, but Im not persuaded this shows that Red 
Sands have acted unfairly in declining the claim. Red Sands say the exclusion covers all 
aspects of dental or gum treatment including, but not limited to, dental disease and mass 
removals from the gum. I should stress that I am not a vet and nor do I have specialist 
veterinary knowledge, but having researched this condition, it appears that an epulis is a 
growth which occurs on the gums or supporting structures of the teeth. So, Im persuaded 
that this is a dental or gum related problem. 
I can see Mr D says his own interpretation of dental and gum treatment would be conditions 
which are specific to gum and dentistry, such as a broken tooth. Mr D also feels a mass 
growth can occur on any part of a dogs body so the problem his dog had shouldnt be seen 
as a dental or gum related issue. I do understand Mr Ds point here but the specific condition 
the vet has noted in the clinical notes is one of the most common types of oral masses and 
appears on a dogs gum. While the clinical notes do show the vet suspects the problem to be 
an epulis during the first diagnosis, its later confirmed to be an epulis after the surgery.   
  
Mr D has my sympathy as I can see from his correspondence this has been a very upsetting 
event for him. My role is to decide whether Red Sands have acted fairly and reasonably. 
And, for the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman