DRN-3801353
The complaint
Mrs and Mr T complain about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) settlement of their travel 
insurance claim. My references to IPA include its claim handler agent. 
What happened
Mrs and Mr T had travel insurance through a bank account, IPA was the insurer.
Mrs and Mr T paid for a holiday abroad for themselves and their adult children, childrens 
partners and grandchildren as a gift to the family for Mrs Ts significant birthday. They 
booked three hotel rooms for the eleven people who were due to travel.
Unfortunately the holiday had to be cancelled due to Mr Ts ill health. Mrs and Mr T claimed 
on the policy for the full holiday costs.
IPA accepted the claim but only paid the costs attributable to Mrs and Mr T and their 
grandson who were sharing one room. It said it wouldnt pay the full amount of the trip as the 
policy terms were clear it would only cover the portion of the costs for the people insured by 
the policy, Mrs and Mr T and their grandson as a dependent child .
IPA accepted that after the claim had been made it had told Mrs and Mr T the full claim was 
covered by the policy, which it said was wrong. It paid Mrs and Mr T £100 compensation for 
their disappointment due to the change in its decision not to pay the full amount. But IPA 
said its wrong information hadnt caused the financial loss as Mrs and Mr T had already 
cancelled the holiday.
Mrs and Mr T complained to us that their costs were the full cost of the holiday. IPA told 
them their family should claim against their own insurance policies but Mrs and Mr T said 
their families couldnt claim for something their families hadnt paid for.
Our investigator said the policy terms werent clear that if Mrs and Mr T paid the full holiday 
costs for other people as a gift their full cost wouldnt be covered. She recommended IPA 
pay the remainder of the claim subject to the remaining policy terms, conditions and limits, 
plus interest.
IPA disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The industry relevant rules say that insurers must deal with a claim promptly and fairly and 
they mustnt decline a claim unreasonably. I think IPA unreasonably settled Mrs and Mr Ts 
claim. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the cancellation section:
 We will pay you, up to the amount shown in the Benefit Schedule, for any 
irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs and other prepaid charges 
which you have paid or are contracted to pay
IPA said the policy defines You/your/insured person as for Joint Account Holders: The First 
and Second Named Account Holders, their Dependent Children, so theres only cover for 
the costs attributable to the insured - Mrs and Mr T and their grandson (as a dependent 
child).
Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr T had paid for the trip as a gift and they werent expecting any 
repayment from their children/grandchildren. Ive seen the booking invoice and Mrs and 
Mr Ts bank statement which show they paid for the holiday. So Im satisfied that Mrs and 
Mr T incurred the full costs being claimed for.
Ive considered the policy terms and the policy covered the insured persons costs if the trip 
has to be cancelled. 
There is no exclusion in the cancellation section of the policy or in the general exclusions 
which specifically excludes payments the insured person made on behalf of other travellers. 
If the policy was going to exclude cover of payments made by the insured person on behalf 
of other people I think it would have been fair for IPA to have been clear about that in the 
policy terms.
In the circumstances of this case Im satisfied that Mrs and Mr Ts costs were the total costs 
of the booking. I dont think IPA acted fairly in just paying a proportion of the claim. It should 
pay the remainder of the claim in line with the policy terms, conditions and limits, plus 
interest as Ive detailed below. 
The policy terms says theres a £5,000 benefit limit for claims made under the cancellation 
section but the policy also says, The table shows the maximum benefits you can claim for 
each insured person under each section. As I understand both Mrs and Mr T were insured 
under the policy and the payment for the holiday was from their joint bank account each 
have the £5,000 benefit limit for the claim.
Putting things right
IPA must pay the remainder of the claim in line with the remaining policy terms, conditions 
and limits, plus interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay the remainder of the claim in line with the 
remaining policy terms, conditions and limits. Interest* must be added at 8% simple a year 
from the date of the claim to the date of the settlement.
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from that interest it should tell Mrs and Mr T how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mrs and Mr T a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman