DRN-3724033
The complaint
Mrs M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to protect her account and declined to 
refund transactions she didnt authorise.
What happened
Mrs M was on a trip and lost her purse containing her debit card and a diary with her 
Personal Identification Number (PIN) written in it. This particular account wasnt used 
regularly. Mrs M was alerted about the loss of her purse by another bank on the day of the 
theft. Mrs M didnt notify HSBC about the loss of her debit card for some days because she 
didnt realise it had gone. A series of disputed transactions then took place using Mrs Ms 
HSBC card.
Mrs M then raised the loss of her card with HSBC who blocked her card, re-issued a new 
one and looked into what had happened. Because Mrs M had kept her card and PIN 
together in her purse, HSBC declined to refund the disputed transactions. Mrs M complained 
to HSBC about their fraud detection systems failure to protect her funds. Mrs M believed 
that because the disputed transactions were out of character for how the account was 
normally used, HSBC should have blocked the card much earlier. She also believed that a 
fraud alert triggered by the fraud system should have highlighted other fraudulent use of her 
account.
HSBC looked into Mrs Ms complaint but didnt change their position. Mrs M was left 
unhappy and then brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an 
independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for 
information about the complaint.
Mrs M provided details of what had happened and a report from the local police about the 
loss of her purse. HSBC provided details of the disputed transactions and their timings. It 
was apparent from these details that a number of attempts to withdraw cash from an 
Automated Teller Machine (ATM) hadnt been successful because the daily limit on the card 
had been reached. One other transaction had triggered a security alert which prompted an 
automatic call to Mrs M. The phone number was no longer available, so all further attempts 
to use the card were blocked.
After reviewing the complaint, our investigator didnt uphold it. She believed that Mrs M had 
breached the terms of her account by writing down the PIN and keeping it with her card, thus 
being grossly negligent. She also thought that Mrs M could have minimised her own loss by 
notifying HSBC when she realised her other card had been stolen. She didnt agree that the 
payments were so out of character that they should have come to HSBCs attention earlier. It 
was also noted that once HSBC detected an unusual payment  the rest of the attempts 
were blocked, even though they couldnt get in touch with Mrs M.
Mrs M disagreed and still believed that the banks fraud detection system should have 
stopped the transactions earlier.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground here that Mrs M didnt authorise these transactions. Her losses appear 
to have been after her purse was either lost or specifically stolen while she was travelling. 
Attempts against another bank were also made at the time. 
So, unless HSBC can show Mrs M was grossly negligent, she would be due a refund 
because she didnt authorise these transactions. Mrs M herself admits she wrote the PIN 
down which enabled the transactions to be made. This is something thats normally regarded 
as grossly negligent (keeping the card and PIN together). I dont think theres much doubt 
that HSBCs assessment here is correct and I think it was a reasonable conclusion for them 
to make in the circumstances. 
Mrs Bs complaint relates mainly to her belief that HSBC should have noticed these 
payments earlier and other fraud triggers should have protected her account. All the 
disputed transactions were made with her genuine card using the PIN. This wouldnt 
generally alert a fraud detection system unless there were other factors  for example 
particularly large or unusual patterns of payments. Here there werent until a large 
transaction was attempted and the fraud system blocked the card because they couldnt get 
in touch with Mrs M. After this was detected  no further loss occurred on the account.
So, I dont think that HSBCs systems failed here, in fact they noticed a large payment and 
stopped it and any further attempts. I do appreciate that Mrs M lost a considerable amount of 
funds through the theft of her card, but I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to repay 
them in the circumstances. Thats because the thieves were able to use the card and PIN 
together and the pattern of payments werent so large that HSBC should have noticed them 
before the final one was stopped.
There were other attempts to use the card to withdraw money from an ATM which werent 
successful. This was because the daily limit had been reached rather than any fraud 
detection notification. I dont think these in isolation were enough to alert HSBC that 
something was wrong with Mrs Ms account. 
Overall, Mrs M was the victim of a crime and lost funds because of it, but I cant fairly ask 
HSBC to refund the transactions because the card and PIN were kept together which 
allowed her card to be used  in breach of the accounts terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman