DRN-3958320
The complaint
Mr D complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn, irresponsibly gave him 
a conditional sale agreement he couldnt afford. 
What happened
In 2018, Mr D acquired a used car using a conditional sale agreement from Moneybarn. The 
cash price of the car was £16,599. Mr D paid a deposit of £299, with the remainder to be 
financed by the conditional sale agreement. Mr D was required to pay 59 monthly 
repayments of £508.73. Mr D settled the agreement early in September 2021. 
In May 2022, Mr D complained to Moneybarn to say it shouldnt have given him the 
agreement. He said that had Moneybarn completed appropriate checks, it would have seen 
he couldnt afford the agreement. Moneybarn didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said it had 
verified Mr Ds income by requesting copies of his payslips, it had completed a credit check 
and estimated his essential expenditure. It said these checks demonstrated the agreement 
was likely to be affordable. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought that Moneybarn 
ought to have carried out more thorough affordability checks. However, she didnt think that 
more thorough checks would likely have led to a different lending decision.
Mr D didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before granting credit, Moneybarn were required to complete checks to ensure the 
borrowing would be affordable and sustainable for Mr D. There isnt a set list of checks that 
Moneybarn had to complete, but any checks it did needed to be proportionate in the 
circumstances. What is considered proportionate will vary in each case and will depend on a 
number of factors such as (but not limited to): the total amount borrowed, the total repayable, 
the size of the regular repayments, the cost of the credit, the term and the borrowers 
circumstances. 
Mr D was expected to repay over £500 per month over five years. This equated to around a 
quarter of Mr Ds monthly income. The income figure Moneybarn relied on appeared to 
include some bonuses and overtime. Moneybarn also completed a credit check which it says 
showed that Mr D had experienced some financial difficulty in the past, including defaulting 
on a debt 15 months prior to the application. It said his credit commitments had been 
managed well since that time. 
Moneybarn hasnt been able to provide us with a copy of the credit check it did. However, 
having reviewed a copy of a credit report Mr D provided to us, I havent seen anything to 
demonstrate that apart from that one default (which was for a small amount to a 
telecommunications provider) that Moneybarn ought to have been concerned about Mr Ds 
ability to repay his existing credit commitments. 
However, based on what Moneybarn knew about Mr Ds circumstances and the fact this was 
going to be a relatively significant financial commitment for Mr D over a five year term, I dont 
think Moneybarns affordability checks went far enough and werent proportionate in this 
case. While there were no signs of difficulty with his existing commitments, this new 
agreement had the potential to cause financial difficulty given its size in relation to Mr Ds 
income.  
While Moneybarn says it estimated Mr Ds likely committed expenditure, I think it would have 
been proportionate for Moneybarn to have found out from Mr D what his non-discretionary 
expenditure actually was. This would have helped build a better picture of his financial 
circumstances and whether the borrowing was likely to be affordable. I cant be certain what 
Mr D would have told Moneybarn had they asked, but Ive relied on copies of his bank 
statements as an indication of what would most likely have been disclosed. 
The bank statements show that Mr D had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford 
the monthly repayments towards the Moneybarn agreement. Mr D also provided his own 
calculations of his committed expenditure from the time which showed that after taking into 
account the payment to Moneybarn and with no overtime or bonus payments, he would have 
around £260 in disposable income each month. I think this demonstrates that Mr D could 
likely afford the repayments without causing financial difficulty and Moneybarn didnt 
therefore make an unfair lending decision. 
Lastly, Mr D says he struggled to make the repayments because he was gambling heavily. 
Im sorry to hear Mr D had been struggling and Ive seen gambling transactions on his bank 
statements. However, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn did know, or could reasonably 
have known about this prior to lending to him. For that reason, I dont think Moneybarn made 
an unfair lending decision.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman