DRN-3071789
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how esure Insurance Limited trading as Sheilas Wheels (esure) 
settled his car insurance claim. He complains it didnt contact him like it said it would and 
didnt replace any parts but just patched up the damage. Mr L feels his car hasnt been fixed 
or repaired and there will be problems later down the line.  
Reference to esure also includes agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts about what happened are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons 
for my decision. But Id like to reassure Mr L and esure that Ive considered everything Ive 
been provided in its entirety. That I concentrate on the crux of the issue in my decision isnt 
meant as a discourtesy but reflects the quick and informal service we provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
The starting point for any complaint about an insurance claim is the contract between 
the parties  the policy. It sets out the terms and conditions, what cover is provided, 
definitions and any exclusions that apply.
Mr Ls policy includes a provision which entitles esure to settle a claim as it sees fit. 
Similar provisions are found in all motor policies Ive seen, and I dont find the term 
unusual or surprising. The choice to settle the claim by offering a repair, replacement 
or cash settlement is ultimately esures. This means it might make a decision the 
policyholder disagrees with, as has happened here. But the terms and conditions 
allow esure to make such a decision. It doesnt need the policyholders consent in 
order to do so.
I know Mr L is extremely unhappy esure didnt call him to discuss the way forward as 
previously advised. But as Ive mentioned, that it chose to repair instead of replacing 
the damaged part was in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr Ls policy. 
esure accepts it fell short in the customer service it provided Mr L as a call-back had 
been discussed. Ive thought carefully about whether Mr Ls claim would have been 
settled differently if esure had contacted him prior to progressing matters. Im not 
persuaded it would have. I say this because Mr L wouldnt have been able to decide 
how his claim would be settled even if esure had contacted him first. It would still 
have been esures decision to make. That said, I acknowledge expectations werent 
managed appropriately at the time. And since then, esure has also become aware of 
Mr Ls vulnerability. Given the circumstances, I consider the £150 compensation 
esure has already paid Mr L fairly recognises its customer service failings.
Mr Ls raised concerns about the quality of the repair work. Other than his desire to 
have the damage replaced rather than repaired, I havent seen any specific concerns 
in relation to the quality of the repair. Its worth noting esure has reassured Mr L the 
repair comes with a five-year guarantee as it was carried out at one of its 
recommended repairers. Hopefully, this gives Mr L some reassurance.
I can also see esure offered to investigate this matter further if Mr L provided an 
independent engineers inspection report highlighting issues with the quality of the 
repair. But one wasnt forthcoming. Later, when investigating Mr Ls complaint, esure 
arranged an independent inspection to report on the quality of work. It isnt clear why 
the inspection didnt go ahead. But having considered everything, I havent seen 
enough evidence to conclude the repair to Mr Ls car wasnt carried out to a 
satisfactory quality.
I understand Mr L feels esure should have written off his car as it wasnt worth the 
money it spent on repairing it. But I can see esures explained the damage was minor 
and the repair work cost less than the market value of the car. Given this, I dont 
consider it unreasonable for esure to have opted to repair the damage. 
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ls frustrations, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint as esure Insurance Limited trading as 
Sheilas Wheels has already fairly resolved it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman