DRN-2411422
The complaint
Mr R complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) loaned to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
In July 2017 Mr R took out a Lending Stream loan for £400, repayable over six months. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and Lending Stream told us about this loan and 
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr R disagrees with our adjudicator. Mr R mainly said that Lending Stream didnt do proper 
checks that showed the full extent of his financial situation, including defaulted credit card 
accounts and arrears and defaults with other short term lenders. 
Mr R told us the loan was a significant proportion of his stated income and so his 
circumstances should have been thoroughly checked.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr R with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. 
In practice, this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr R could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Rs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. 
Before lending to Mr R, Lending Stream asked Mr R for information about his financial 
situation, such as his monthly income and his outgoings. 
It also asked about any other credit commitments and carried out credit checks. 
This was Mr Rs first (and only) loan with Lending Stream. So I think Lending Stream could 
reasonably rely on the information Mr R provided.
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the information 
Lending Stream had on record for Mr R, including what it appears Mr R told Lending Stream 
about his monthly income and what he was paying out each month and also spending on 
other credit, this didnt point to the loan being unaffordable for Mr R. 
The credit check information Lending Stream recorded for him didnt seem to be at odds with 
anything Mr R had already told Lending Stream about his financial situation.
After taking into account his take home pay and other spending, including the figure of 
around £50 each month it appears he told Lending Stream he was spending on other credit 
expenses, and adjusting his total expenses figure upwards to better reflect his likely 
spending, Mr R still shouldve had around £845 left over to pay for this loan. 
As the biggest monthly repayment due on this loan was around £173, this wouldve looked 
comfortably affordable for Mr R.  
Im sorry that Mr R had a problem with debt and that repaying this loan was difficult for him. 
I accept that in reality it looks like Mr Rs actual circumstances werent fully reflected either in 
the information he provided or the other information Lending Stream obtained. 
But wed expect Lending Stream to decide Mr Rs lending application based on the 
information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for Lending Stream to lend  especially as there wasnt 
anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr R wouldnt be able to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. 
And I dont think proportionate checks wouldve required Lending Stream to probe any more 
deeply into Mr Rs finances. 
Or that it ought to have asked Mr R to prove what he was declaring or check other 
information sources (by doing credit checks with other credit reference agencies for 
example) to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about his financial 
circumstances.
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend 
this loan to Mr R. 
So I cant require Lending Stream to amend his credit file in the way Mr R would like.
I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr R.
But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my 
decision.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 January 2021. 
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman