DRN-1882661
 
The complaint
Mr O has complained that U K Insurance Limited didnt pay a fair valuation for his car. Mr O 
made a claim under his car insurance policy after being involved in a collision. 
What happened
Mr O bought a car insurance policy with UKI. In July 2019 he made a claim after a collision 
with another vehicle. UKI said it wasnt economical to repair Mr Os car due to the damage. 
So it settled Mr Os claim as a total loss. An engineer gave a total loss valuation of £3,887.
Mr O didnt think this was enough to replace his car for a similar one. He wanted UKI to 
indemnify his loss fairly. He provided examples of similar cars for sale. Mr Os car was over 
20 years old. He wanted UKI to explain how it reached its decision. He felt a fairer valuation 
for his car was £6,000. Mr O wanted UKI to compensate him for the equivalent of two days 
salary for his time putting together documents to support his case.
UKI sent us a screenshot of the valuation the engineer obtained from one of the main motor 
trade guides. This is what UKI relied on when reaching its valuation. Our investigator wasnt 
able to check this valuation as he couldnt obtain one from the same trade guide. But he was 
satisfied the engineer had correctly obtained the valuation.
Of the three remaining main motor trade guides, our investigator was able to obtain a 
valuation from only one. This gave a retail transacted valuation of £5,328 which was much 
higher than the valuation UKI had relied on.
Our investigator felt that the valuation UKI had paid was too low. He considered the adverts 
Mr O provided for similar cars  including cars with higher mileage for sale for much more 
than the sum UKI had paid him. He also provided testimony from a car dealer that 
specialises in restoring cars similar to Mr Os. The investigator looked at other examples of 
similar cars for sale online.  The average of all of the relevant examples came to £5,500. So 
the investigator recommended UKI increase the sum it paid to £5,200, factoring in a margin 
between the advertised price and selling price. 
The investigator didnt think it was reasonable to ask UKI to compensate Mr O for his time. 
As his car was much older, rarer and therefore harder to evaluate, he thought it fair to expect 
Mr O to have to provide additional information about his car. 
UKI accepted the investigators view to increase the total loss sum to £5,200. Mr O didnt 
agree. He said the amount doesnt indemnify him in full as he isnt able to buy a similar car 
for this amount. 
Hes unhappy that UKI undervalued his car and he feels justified in his claim for two days 
lost wages. Mr O said he had to produce lots of evidence which UKI didnt accept  but has 
now accepted the same information after our involvement. 
Mr O said his total loss valuation of £6,000 factored in a margin for advertised prices.  
I issued a provisional decision on 7 May 2020. I thought UKI should increase the total loss 
settlement it paid to £6,000. 
Mr O accepted my provisional decision. UKI didnt reply. So the case has been passed back 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent received any new information, my final decision is along the same lines as my 
provisional decision, which Mr O accepts.
We dont decide a valuation. But we can look at whether an insurer has reached its decision 
in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. UKIs policy defines the term market value 
as; the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a similar 
age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
Our usual approach is to rely on the main motor trade guides. They are able to provide 
average valuations for cars based on likely selling prices for the month of loss - of the same 
make, model, age, mileage, specification and condition. So we tend to find them more 
reliable than advertised prices. But where appropriate, we think its reasonable to consider 
other evidence such as dealership testimony or advertised examples. 
I think in this case its reasonable to consider other evidence. I dont think the trade guides 
were useful due to the small number of sold cars on the market  and the disparity between 
the two available valuations. 
Mr O provided examples of similar cars for sale. Mr Os car had a rare body kit so there were 
only one or two examples of cars with this. The examples Mr O provided included advertised 
cars for sale on general and specialist classic car websites. Mr O also provided testimony 
from a dealership garage that specialises in restoring the make and model of Mr Os car. I 
think it is helpful in this case. Mr O has a full service history for his car and it had been 
subject to a full body respray, wheel refurbishment, air con refurbishment and cambelt 
service. The specialist dealer concluded from photos of Mr Os car that he would need to 
spend well over £5,000 to buy a replacement car similar to his. The specialist listed similar 
cars hes restored and sold which averaged £6,495. 
The average of all of the examples provided by Mr O came to £6,456. But almost all of the 
examples had considerably higher mileage than Mr Os car. The mileage as well as the 
condition of the car can make a significant difference to the market value of an older car.
Given the lack of industry information available, in this case I think Mr O has provided good 
evidence to show why his car might be worth at least £6,000 or more. Mr O is asking for 
£6,000 as hes taken into account a margin against the advertising asking price and the 
likely selling price. 
Putting things right
So based on the information available, I dont think UKI has reached its valuation in a 
reasonable way. I think a fairer market valuation for Mr Os car is £6,000.
I understand Mr O is upset that hes had to spend time producing information to support his 
case. When dealing with any claim, its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience  
particularly where theres a dispute. So I dont think UKI should compensate Mr O for his 
time in collating information to support his claim. But I think UKI should increase the total loss settlement it pays Mr O to £6,000. And I think it should pay interest on the difference as 
I understand its already paid a settlement of £3,887 to Mr O. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to do the 
following:
Increase the total loss settlement to £6,000. 
Pay interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest a year from the date 
of the claim to the date UKI pays. 
U K Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 
8% a year.
If U K Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr O a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman