DRN-2838444
The complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited mis-sold him a term assurance policy 
and failed to send him the terms and conditions which he says meant he couldnt cancel it.
 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the policy was a non-
advised sale, so she didnt think Mr P had been wrongly advised and he hadnt been told he 
had to have the policy. She added that if Mr P wanted to cancel the policy, he couldve 
contacted Aviva to ask for the terms and conditions after Aviva sent them to the wrong 
address.  
Mr P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He thinks more consideration 
should be given to his terms and conditions being sent to the wrong address and him not 
being able to cancel the policy within the thirty-day notice period.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr P feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, Aviva has said this was a non-advised sale that took place in August 2003, by which 
it means that it didnt recommend the policy to Mr P personally or advise him to take it out. I 
dont know what was said during the sale. But, Ive not seen anything such as a record of a 
discussion about his needs and circumstances or a suitability check to show me clearly that 
it did make a personal recommendation to him or that it should have considered another 
product for Mr P.
I believe term assurance policies, such as this one, are beneficial to customers whove taken 
out a mortgage and need life cover. It provides a lump sum for a level premium spread over 
the policy term. And because Aviva has said it was a non-advised sale, Im not persuaded it 
advised Mr P he must take out the policy. 
I understand Mr P wanted to have sight of the policy documentation before cancelling and I 
note the policy documents were sent to the wrong address. Aviva has said the policy 
documents were returned to its office and resent to the correct address in October 2003. 
Mr P said not receiving his terms and conditions within the thirty-day notice period meant he 
wasnt able to cancel the policy when he wanted.  But Im not satisfied this means the policy 
was mis-sold or that he wasnt able to cancel the policy. Despite Avivas mistake, Mr P 
always had the option to contact it to question why the policy documents hadnt arrived and 
these couldve been resent sooner. But no such contact was made. 
So, I cant fairly or reasonably ask Aviva to return the premiums to Mr P in this instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman