DRN-3418845
The complaint
Mr R complains about how TSB Bank plc managed his mortgage at the end of a coronavirus 
payment deferral. He complains that it took two payments in error, gave him misleading 
information and recorded incorrect information with the credit reference agencies. 
What happened
Mr R has mortgage with TSB Bank plc. Unfortunately his income was affected by the covid-
19 pandemic and he took a payment deferral, ending in September 2020.
Mr R was unable to start making payments again when the payment deferral ended. So he 
agreed with TSB that he would not make payments in October, November or 
December 2020. TSB explained at the time that while it would accept this arrangement, the 
missed payments would be treated as arrears and show as such on his credit file.
In December 2020, Mr R found himself able to start making payments again, but missed 
making his payment by the due date. But a few days later, he made the full December 
payment, plus a very small overpayment. This brought his mortgage down to just under two 
months payments in arrears.
In January 2021, Mr R made a manual payment. He spoke to TSB and he says TSB told him 
that no further payment would be collected until February. But despite this, TSB collected his 
regular direct debit a few days later  meaning Mr R had made two payments in January. He 
said that this meant that he didnt have the money he needed to pay other bills and had to 
borrow from friends and family.
Mr R checked how his mortgage was being reported to the credit reference agencies. One 
agency, Clearscore, showed that he had missed payments in October November and 
December 2020, and in January 2021  four months missed payments in total.
Mr R complained. He said that TSB had given him misleading information. It had taken two 
payments in January. And it had mis-reported his mortgage to the credit reference agency.
TSB accepted that it hadnt communicated well with Mr R. It offered £375 compensation. But 
it said it had given accurate information to the credit reference agencies, and it wasnt 
responsible for how Clearscore had shown it.
Our investigator thought TSBs offer of compensation was fair. He said that TSB had given 
correct information to the agencies and that Mr R might need to complain to Clearscore if it 
had not displayed what TSB had told it correctly.
Mr R didnt agree. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He said TSB had a 
responsibility to make sure his mortgage was being reported correctly. It should work with 
Clearscore to ensure that happened, and shouldnt be allowed to escape responsibility for 
how Mr Rs mortgage was being reported. 
I took a different view of the complaint to the investigator, so I issued a provisional decision 
to allow the parties to comment on my thinking.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive reviewed what TSB submitted to the credit reference agencies, and Im not persuaded it 
was accurate.
This was the reporting for the period in question:
Period Payment status Account status Balance
Sep 2020 0 OK 466321
Oct 2020 1 AA 467127
Nov 2020 2 AA 467908
Dec 2020 1 AA 465403
Jan 2021 1 AA 432846
Feb 2021 1 AR 460258
The number in the payment status column means the number of monthly payments by 
which the account is in arrears. In September it was not in arrears because Mr R was in a 
coronavirus payment deferral, so 0. In October he did not make his payment, so it was one 
month in arrears  1. In November the same, so 2. In December, he paid very slightly 
more than the monthly payment, which was enough to reduce the arrears to just below the 
equivalent of two months payment  so back to 1 (the figure is rounded down not up). This 
continued as Mr R cleared the arrears over the following months, until it was back to 0.
The account status column contains codes that give the current status of the account. OK 
means the account is performing as expected, AA means it is in arrears, and AR means it 
is in arrears with an arrangement in place.
OK is correct for September 2020 because of the payment deferral. 
When the deferral ended in September, Mr R couldnt yet resume payments. Under the 
regulators tailored support guidance for borrowers coming off payment deferrals, TSB 
agreed a payment arrangement of nil payments for three months  in other words, it agreed 
that it would not expect any payment in those months, but that this would be treated as 
arrears not as a deferral. Mr R understood and accepted this at the time and TSB confirmed 
the arrangement to him in a letter dated 7 October 2020.
In fact, Mr R did not need the full three months and resumed making payments in December. 
In January 2021, TSB called Mr R to discuss the arrears. Mr R wanted to put an 
arrangement in place of making the monthly payment plus £500. TSBs adviser explained 
that they would need to go through his income and expenditure to see whether that was affordable, but according to TSBs notes Mr R didnt want to do that so no formal 
arrangement was put in place.
On 16 February 2021, TSB called Mr R again and this time Mr R did go through his income 
and expenditure and a payment plan of £500 plus the monthly payment was put in place.
Its reasonable for TSB to want to discuss Mr Rs income and expenditure. He had recently 
been unable to pay his mortgage, so it needed to make sure that increased monthly 
payments were affordable and sustainable for him.
Therefore, its reasonable that TSB reported AA rather than AR for January 2021  since 
Mr R was in arrears and not in an arrangement. He was in arrears because he hadnt yet 
made up the payments he had missed in October and November. And he was not in an 
arrangement since the previous one had ended in December, and he hadnt wanted to 
discuss his income and expenditure so TSB couldnt agree a new one.
However, its not in my view fair that TSB reported AA in October November and 
December 2020, since in those months Mr R was in an arrangement  TSB had agreed he 
did not need to make any payments. Even though Mr R did not need the arrangement in 
December it still existed. In those months it should have reported AR not AA.
Therefore, I think TSB should amend its reporting to the credit reference agencies. I have 
highlighted in bold where I think changes should be made:
Period Payment status Account status Balance
Sep 2020 0 OK 466321
Oct 2020 1 AR 467127
Nov 2020 2 AR 467908
Dec 2020 1 AR 465403
Jan 2021 1 AA 432846
Feb 2021 1 AR 460258
Im satisfied that this has caused Mr R some further upset beyond the mistake with collecting 
his January direct debit and the earlier communication difficulties. I note TSB has already 
offered £375 compensation, and I intend to increase that to £500.
However, while TSB is responsible for how it reports to the agencies, it is not responsible for 
how the agencies display information about Mr Rs credit history.
Mr R is particularly concerned about what appears on his Clearscore file. Clearscore is not 
one of the three main agencies that lenders report to direct. Its a free service that takes and 
simplifies data from one of the main agencies.
Clearscore doesnt show the detailed data I have put in the table above. It simply shows a 
coloured dot for each month. Black for payment made, and pink for missed payment, on the 
example of his file Mr R gave us. Mr R had black dots for all months apart from 
October 2020 to January 2021, which were pink.It may be that Clearscore interprets OK and AR as payment made  black dot  and AA 
as payment missed  pink dot. If thats so, then when TSB corrects its reporting to the three 
main agencies, the dots for October November and December may switch to black.
As Ive set out above, Mr R did in fact make his payment for January. And TSB reported as 
such to the agencies (the balance reduced and the payment status remained at 1). If 
Clearscore continues to interpret AA for January as a pink dot despite that, then that is not 
something TSB is responsible for and something Mr R will need to take up with Clearscore.
The responses to my provisional decision
TSB accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr R said that he broadly agreed. But he said that he had tried to reinstate the direct debit in 
mid-November so that his December payment would be collected as normal. TSB did not do 
this and so he had to make a manual payment. And in January 2021, when the direct debit 
was collected, that meant he had made a double payment which he had to recover through 
the direct debit guarantee, which caused him inconvenience.
Mr R said that he would complain directly to Clearscore, but he wanted TSB to work with him 
and Clearscore to make sure Clearscore reports information accurately. He has complained 
to Clearscore, to the main credit reference agencies and to TSB many times and each refers 
him to the other and refuses to take responsibility. He said that as a result he had spent over 
120 hours trying to resolve this complaint. He didnt think £500 compensation fairly reflected 
that, and suggested that £1,200  his time at £10 an hour  was the minimum that could be 
considered fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again what I said in my provisional decision in light of the responses to 
it. Both parties accepted the substance of my decision, in terms of how to correct Mr Rs 
credit file. What remains at issue is the level of fair compensation in this case  and to what 
extent TSB is responsible for what Clearscore reports.
Ive thought carefully about what Mr R has said, and Ive noted his comments about the level 
of compensation. Im sure this has been a frustrating experience for him. But at least part of 
his frustration  and the time hes put into resolving things  has been because of his 
dealings with the credit reference agencies rather than TSB. 
I also dont think its appropriate to award compensation based on the amount of time Mr R 
says hes spent at a notional hourly rate. Mr R hasnt suggested that theres been actual 
financial loss  for example, that hes been unable to work because of this complaint. 
Rather, hes attached a notional value to the time hes spent outside working hours.
In those circumstances, I dont think an hourly rate is appropriate. The appropriate way to 
determine compensation for his non-financial losses  for the upset and the inconvenience 
this issue has caused  is to step back and look at matters in the round. In doing so, Ive 
taken account of the overall impact this matter has had on Mr R, and Ive thought about it 
more broadly in the context of the sorts of awards made by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service in cases like this. Im satisfied that £500 represents fair compensation.I dont think it would be right for me to direct TSB to take any particular action in respect of 
Clearscore. TSBs obligation is to provide correct information to the main credit reference 
agencies. Once the changes I have outlined above have been made, it will have done that. 
It's not responsible for what other companies then do with that data, or how they choose to 
interpret or display it. If Mr R remains unhappy about that, he will need to take that up with 
Clearscore himself.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct TSB 
Bank plc to:
Correct its reporting to the credit reference agencies to show AR for October 
November and December 2020; and
Increase the total compensation offered to Mr R to £500. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 May 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman