DRN-4228999
The complaint
Ms E complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her when she lost 
money to what she believes was an investment scam.
 
What happened
Sometime in 2017 Ms E was introduced to an investment by a friend. Ms E decided to 
purchase shares in the company, that Ill refer to as E. Ms E made an initial payment of 
£916.39 on 30 November 2017. Ms E then received payments of £624 and £600 in 
March 2018 from a company she has shown was associated with E. Ms E then made two 
further payments to E on 24 April 2018, one for £9,027.70 and the other for £4,526.56.
 
In 2020 E stopped responding to Ms E and she said the website disappeared. It was at this 
point Ms E believed she had been scammed. Ms E said she was too embarrassed at the 
time to reach out for help. 
In March 2023 Ms E contacted HSBC for help in recovering the money she had lost. HSBC 
agreed to contact the receiving bank to ask if any funds could be recovered, but it explained 
as the payments were to an international bank it could only do so on a best endeavours 
basis and could not guarantee it would reply. 
Ms E was unhappy with HSBCs response and referred a complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She explained 
that she couldnt reasonably conclude that the investment was a scam, and so she did not 
think HSBC had acted unfairly by refusing to refund the money lost. 
Ms E disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. She 
provided further evidence of the communication shed had with E. She said that E never 
returned her money and ceased operation without any warning given to its customers. She 
said that this was evidence it was a scam. She also provided evidence of an online review 
that suggested it was a scam. 
The case has therefore been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and for largely the same reasons as our
Investigator. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms E, but for the reasons Ill go
on to explain I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
Im sorry to hear Ms E has lost a considerable sum of money. I appreciate this has had a 
significant impact on her wellbeing and financial security. And I can understand why she 
wants to do all she can to recover the money she lost. But I can only direct HSBC to refund 
Ms Es losses if it can reasonably be held responsible for them. Overall, Ive decided that it 
cant be. Ill explain why.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that result in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that are arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, whilst customers who lose out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006).
I appreciate Ms E has concerns about the investment she signed up for, and I can 
understand her shock and concern when E stopped communicating with her and the 
website disappeared. I appreciate there are also a couple of online reviews where other 
customers have characterised it as a scam. 
But there are also features of this case that arent wholly typical for a scam. For example, the 
timescales involved dont match the patterns Id expect to see with a typical scam. Ms E 
made her first payment to E in November 2017, received returns in March 2018 and then 
made a further payment in April 2018. It seems she was then in contact with E until 
sometime in 2020. Often in the cases we see, scams will be set up quickly and look to 
extract as much money from its victims as possible before disappearing. The fact that Ms E 
received a high return from the firm following an initial investment is also not completely in 
keeping with what Id expect to see from a scam. There also doesnt appear to be the usual 
high-pressure sales tactics that often lead to increased spending, usually over a short period 
of time.
 
Ive also been unable to find any evidence of any credible warnings from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), International Organization of Securities Commission (IOSCO) or 
any other recognised authority concerning the firm.
 
So, based on what Ive seen, on balance I cant say that this case meets the high legal 
threshold and burden of proof required for fraud. Rather, this appears to be a case of a high-
risk unregulated investment that didnt perform as expected, which sadly resulted in Ms E 
suffering a loss.
Having concluded that this was likely a case of a bad investment rather than a scam, there is 
nothing further for me to consider, as HSBC has no obligation to protect its customers from 
bad bargains or to give them investment advice.
There are occasions when we do think banks should query payments because of suspicious 
activity that appears unusual or uncharacteristic for the account or customer. If such 
potential fraud alerts are triggered, it is fair and reasonable for a bank to pause and ask 
questions of the payer about the transaction  which might unravel a scam and stop it before 
any loss occurs. But those considerations are predicated on there being evidence of a fraud 
or scam, which is not the case here. Banks do not have to intervene with legitimate 
payments, and cannot be held liable for alleged losses, when there is in fact no fraud or 
scam, or if the payer has regrets or second thoughts after the event.
As Ive been unable to conclude that Ms E was victims of a fraud or scam, Im unable to 
conclude that HSBC ought to have taken any action before processing her payment 
instructions. 
When Ms E finally reported her loss to HSBC and the fact that shed potentially been victim 
of a scam, HSBC contacted the receiving bank to see if any funds remained. As the receiving bank was an international bank, HSBC was only able to attempt this recovery on a 
best endeavours basis which it explained to Ms E at the time. Unfortunately, the receiving 
bank hasnt responded to HSBC. I dont find this surprising and even if it had responded I 
think it unlikely any funds would remain given the time that has passed since Ms Es 
payments. But I am satisfied HSBC made reasonable efforts to recover the funds Ms E lost, 
and I cant say it needed to do anything else.
So, overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to hold HSBC responsible for Ms Es 
loss in this particular case.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman