DRN-4314274
The complaint
Mr P, on behalf of Company A, complains that TigerWit Limited unreasonably withheld 
profits made on the companys trading account.
What happened
Mr P requested a withdrawal of profits on Company As account in March 2021. After some 
delay and ongoing correspondence, TigerWit informed him that it wouldnt facilitate the 
withdrawal. It said an analysis of Company As trading history had suggested it had been 
using a latency trading strategy and this gave TigerWit reasonable grounds to rely on its 
terms and cancel all Company As trades and associated gains. 
Mr P didnt accept this and categorically denied that Company As trading in any way 
contravened TigerWits terms. He said thered been numerous occasions where Company 
As trading had been subject to downside risk and many days where thered been overall 
losses, which didnt indicate the use of a strategy that gave it an unfair advantage. 
He added that, in any event, Company As trading style wouldve been apparent from the 
records of its previous trading, which had been provided to TigerWit as part of its application 
for elective professional client status. So, it was unreasonable for TigerWit to have allowed it 
to continue trading only to later refuse to pay out the resulting profits.  
The complaint was referred to this service, but TigerWit challenged our jurisdiction to 
investigate it, primarily on the basis that Company A had been trading as an elective 
professional client and was therefore not eligible to bring a complaint. 
This issue of jurisdiction was considered by an ombudsman who concluded that Company A 
was an eligible complainant, but only in respect of matters relevant to its trading account that 
took place prior to 6 October 2020  the date on which TigerWit revised Company As 
trading status from retail client to elective professional client. (Company A had originally 
opened the account as a retail client in July 2020 and traded from late September 2020).      
With the limits of our jurisdiction decided, an investigator then looked into the merits of the 
complaint and concluded that, on the basis of TigerWits analysis, it had been reasonable for 
it to rely upon its terms and withhold the profits from Company A. 
Mr P didnt accept this, so the matter was referred to me to review.  
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I also didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. I said, in part:
Firstly, I think its important to stress thatmy consideration of the merits of the complaint is 
limited to acts, or omissions, relating to trading carried out by Company A as a retail client. 
That is, the period during which it was an eligible complainant. So, as the act complained of 
is the withholding of profits, I can only look at whether it was fair for TigerWit to do this for 
trades made up until 6 October 2020. Mr P will be aware that this represents only a small 
proportion of Companys A overall trading history, and profits achieved. 
Turning to my consideration of the merits, the question I need to answer is whether Im 
satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that it was fair and reasonable for TigerWit to 
conclude that Company A was using a strategy prohibited under the terms of the agreement 
between the parties, which allowed Company A to trade in a way which enabled it to gain an 
unfair advantage.
And in my view, having considered TigerWits submissions carefully, alongside the trading 
data it has provided, set against the detailed arguments submitted by Mr P on behalf of 
Company A, I think it was reasonable for TigerWit to conclude that the evidence showed 
Company A was adopting a strategy designed to exploit a delay in the price feeds.
I say this for a number of reasons. 
As noted, TigerWit has said that upon reviewing Company As trading history it identified 
patterns that suggested Company A had been using some sort of system to take advantage 
of pricing latency  the use of an automated method to trade ahead of its price updates, 
particularly when there was a price movement greater than TigerWits bid/offer spread within 
a period shorter than its pricing latency. 
It explained that its prices sit very slightly behind the underlying prices of the relevant futures 
exchanges  in this case EUREX and CME respectively for the German Dax and Dow 30 
indices that Company A was trading. TigerWits liquidity provider first obtains a price from 
the relevant exchange, adjusts for fair value, then sends the price on to TigerWit. This 
process creates a two-stage delay, albeit of less than a second, compared against the 
exchange price, which is itself directly accessible to anyone with a futures trading account.    
This being so, its possible to take advantage of the delay with a system that can compare 
the exchange's current price with the previous price and, where the difference is greater than 
TigerWits quoted spread, trade on TigerWits system with the previous price.
TigerWit explained that with any given trade the next tick/print could be one of three 
outcomes  the same price, a move against Company A or a move in its favour. It said this 
should be random and, over time should average to zero. It said its analysis of Company As 
considerable volume of trading showed that for opening trades in 34% of cases the first 
tick/print after the trade was wider that its full bid/offer spread in favour of Company A and 
for closing trades the percentage was 65%, with an average difference of 3.33 bps 
(compared to the typical spread of 0.57 bps).  
TigerWits view was that this statistical anomaly could only realistically be a result of the use 
of a system to take advantage of the systems pricing latency. As such, it felt Company As 
trading activity contravened its terms and conditions.
Ive considered this carefully, and agree that, on balance, this detailed analysis suggests 
strongly that some sort of system was being utilised to take advantage of the pricing latency 
TigerWit has described. Im not saying it necessarily proves beyond doubt that Company A 
was acting illegally in some way. But the test isnt whether (or not) Company A has broken 
any laws. Im considering whether TigerWit acted reasonably in light of the contractual 
agreement between the parties. And that contract prohibited latency trading, which it defined 
as trading - 
 where we believe, at our sole discretion, that the client is using any means, including any 
electronic device, software, algorithm, trading strategy or arbitrage practice, that aims to 
manipulate or take advantage, whether considered unfair or otherwise, of the way in which 
we construct, provide or convey our bid or offer process or to trade to their advantage, 
whether considered unfair or otherwise, ahead of our price updates. You agree that using any device, software, algorithm, strategy or practice in your dealings with us whereby you 
are not subject to any downside market risk will be evidence that you are taking unfair 
advantage of us. 
As Ive said, I think TigerWits detailed analysis of Company As trading gave it reasonable 
grounds to conclude that it was acting in such a way. I note what Mr P has said about 
Company A having clearly been subject to some downside risk, this being demonstrated on 
specific trades and days where losses or overnight charges were incurred. But I think the 
key point here is the use of a strategy to take advantage of pricing latency doesnt guarantee 
a profit on each and every trade. Rather, it gives on ongoing statistical advantage that over 
time leads to profits being made that wouldnt have been made in the absence of the 
strategy.
In a similar way, Mr P has argued that its unfair for TigerWit to withhold profits because not 
all trades could be said to have been a result of latency trading. But I think this is covered 
under section 3.15 of the term which says, in part  
All trades should be made at a price that is fair and based upon the underlying market 
price of the relevant market. If this is deemed to not be the case (i.e. Manifest Price Error, 
Latency Trading to name two such examples) then TigerWit may adjust the prices of said 
trades to reflect the correct underlying market price at the time of the transaction or cancel 
the relevant trades (and any related trades) in their entirety.
Latency trading strategy would, by its nature, be applied across all trading to take advantage 
of price differentials as and when they occurred, to give the overall unfair advantage. I think 
the fact that term covers relevant trades and any related trades addresses this point. 
Mr P has also questioned the fact that the review of Company As trading history was only 
prompted by the act of him requesting the withdrawal and that this came many months after 
the trading began and at a point when Company was categorised as an elective professional 
client. So, is it fair that this should form the basis of a justification of withholding profits 
obtained as a retail client? 
Mr P has argued that TigerWit was made aware of its trading style through the provision of 
its trading history with other businesses relating to its professional client application. So, 
TigerWit shouldve acted at that point and not granted Company A professional status, which 
wouldve meant that any profits made would then either have been achieved as a retail 
client, or elsewhere with another business. So, effectively within this services jurisdiction, or 
not subject to TigerWits withhold. 
But given that the trading history was provided for a very specific reason  to demonstrate 
Company As trading volumes in relation to the quantitative test at COBS 3.5.3R for 
classification as a professional client  I dont think its reasonable to expect TigerWit to have 
performed any sort of trading style review on the information (and there was no regulatory 
requirement for it to do so). And in any event, I think its highly unlikely if such a review had 
taken place that, in isolation, it wouldve revealed anything to prevent the reclassification. 
I dont think its relevant when the discovery of the trading strategy was made. Once TigerWit 
had determined through its analysis of Company As trading that it was, in TigerWits view, in 
contravention of its terms it was entitled to rely upon those terms to cancel any gains and 
withhold profits. It could have noticed the issue sooner, but I dont think it was unreasonable 
for the withdrawal request to act as a red flag and prompt an investigation. 
And this leads me on to two points that, although circumstantial, I think further support the 
action taken by TigerWit. Up until point of the withdrawal request Company A had been trading with it as a B Book client, whereby TigerWit was the counterparty to Company As 
trades (so at the close of the trades either Company A won and TigerWit lost, or vice versa). 
This meant Company A was trading on the price on TigerWits platform. But shortly before 
the withdrawal request was made, TigerWit had taken the decision, on the basis of Company 
As trading history and profit level, to move Company A to its A book, so its trades were 
then sent direct to TigerWits liquidity provider and filled at that price. This change effectively 
removed the potential for any pricing latency advantage.
Mr P has said that Company A was unaware of this change, so it cant have been what 
prompted the request to withdraw its profits. And I accept that Company A werent explicitly 
informed of the change. But Company A would nevertheless have become aware that the 
advantage provided by the pricing latency was no longer available.
And further, when the withdrawal request was originally made, Mr P emailed TigerWit to say:
As we have been discussing with you, we are in the process of handling an audit report and 
settling some tax bills due for the late 2020 portion of our trading.
Please can you process a withdrawal today for 134,000 USD from MT4 account xxxxxxxx. 
Please let us know when this has been done.
We will be rebalancing across our numerous brokers. In the next 1-2 weeks. we will be 
further depositing this account and also our second account once our taxes have been 
settled.           
(In respect of this last paragraph, Company A had recently requested a second account be 
set up with TigerWit on the same terms as the existing account.)   
Yet, in the response to the investigators view, in addressing the point that the withdrawal 
request followed the move from B-book to A-book and that, as Company A wasnt aware of 
this, it couldnt be any evidence of wrongdoing, Mr P gave a different, contradictory 
explanation of why the withdrawal request had been made, saying, 
The reason we ceased trading is because overnight our spread and cost of trading became 
three times more expensive. Our reason for trading at TigerWit was the competitive low cost 
of trading, something the firm boasts in their marketing. As any rational business, if costs are 
now three times what they used to be, and there are cheaper alternatives in the market, we 
will withdraw our funds and move elsewhere.
TigerWit has confirmed that with the move from B-Book to A-Book there was no increase in 
cost or change in the spread.
This lack of consistency, while not in itself proving that Company A had been acting in 
contravention of TigerWits terms, does to my mind cast doubt over the version of the 
circumstances and Company As actions that Mr P has provided. 
Ultimately, as noted, what Im deciding is whether it was fair and reasonable for TigerWit to 
conclude that Company A was trading in such a way that contravened it terms and having 
done so, withheld the profits gained as a result of that trading. And I currently think, given the 
evidence Ive seen and in light of the wider circumstances, that TigerWit did act fairly and 
reasonably.
TigerWit accepted my provisional decision, but Mr P on behalf of Company A did not. He 
provided further comments, in summary:I had demonstrated bias by not balancing Company As evidence against that 
provided by TigerWit. I had not properly taken it into consideration.
I had accepted that Company As trades were subject to downside risk, so the trading 
cannot have met TigerWits definition of latency trading. 
Company A had provided evidence that the trading had been carried out manually, 
and it had simply been applying its proprietary manual trading strategy.  
It could not understand the position on jurisdiction. I had made clear I couldnt 
consider issues relating to when Company A was being treated as an elective 
professional client but had then referred to trading carried out during that period to 
support my findings. 
I had agreed that the data did not provide evidence of latency trading but because 
profit was made over time from this strategy it must be latency trading. So, was it the 
case that any broker could withhold profits because statistically everyone should 
lose? 
My comments on the communication between the parties regarding the withdrawal 
request were not material. In any event, the spread did change, contrary to what had 
been said at the outset as part of TigerWits sales pitch. 
Company A had proved all the trades were subject to downside risk. I had agreed 
with this, so it was unreasonable for Tigerwit to withhold when none of the trades 
meet the definition of latency trading in its terms. Making profits shouldnt be 
evidence of wrongdoing and if Company As trading didnt meet the definition of 
latency trading, it had not breached TigerWits terms.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
But having done so and having also given careful consideration to the additional submission 
provided by Mr P on behalf of Company A, I find I remain of the view set out in my 
provisional decision. I still think that given all the evidence Ive seen and in light of the wider 
circumstances, TigerWit acted fairly and reasonably when it relied upon its terms to withhold 
the withdrawal from Company A. 
I note the additional comments Mr P has provided concerning downside risk. But I made 
clear in my provisional decision that the use of an overarching strategy to take advantage of 
pricing latency wouldnt necessarily guarantee a profit on each and every trade. Rather, it 
gives on ongoing statistical advantage that over time leads to profits being made that most 
likely wouldnt have been made in the absence of the strategy. 
Therefore, my acceptance that Company As trading was subject to downside risk in no way 
implied that I therefore necessarily thought that latency trading had not occurred. And, in any 
event, as I explained in my provisional decision, I was not making a finding on whether (or 
not) it had occurred. 
Rather, I was considering whether, in light of the terms of the agreement between the 
parties, it was reasonable for TigerWit to exercise the discretion afforded by those terms to 
withhold the requested payment. And I remain of the view that it was reasonable and that 
exercising that discretion based on a detailed trading analysis that suggested some sort of 
system was being used to take advantage of pricing latency, TigerWit had not acted 
capriciously, arbitrarily or irrationally in any way.
Finally, in respect of the jurisdiction, my intention was to make it clear that, while I would look 
at all the circumstances and information available to me  which included, among other 
things, information about Company As trading during the period it was treated as an elective professional client  our rules meant that as of 6 October 2020 Company A had not been an 
eligible complainant. So, in any event, regardless of my eventual findings, no award could be 
made in respect of Company As trading during that period.
My final decision
For the reason given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Company A to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman