DRN-3845200
The complaint
Mr L complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (Fortegra) partially declined 
a claim under his minor damage repair insurance policy.
What happened
Mr L had a minor damage repair policy with Fortegra covering cosmetic damage to his car.
In September 2022 Mr L was loading a wheelchair into his car when he says it damaged the 
front wing. A door was also damaged.
He made a claim from Fortegra. It assessed his claim using photos hed sent. Fortegra said 
it would pay for the damage to the door, but it didnt think the damage to the wing was 
caused by the wheelchair. It said it thought the damage to the wing was from stone chips, 
which are excluded under its policy:
What is NOT Covered:
 Stone chip damage to the Vehicle.
Mr L was unhappy and asked that Fortegra inspect his car. Fortegra said its policy said:
Please note: The Administrator will require photographs of the damage in order to 
assess your claim.
You are required to include evidence of the diameter of the damage by using a ruler 
when taking the photographs.
Mr L remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. He asks that both areas of 
damage are repaired by Fortegra. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Fortegra had 
reasonably assessed the damage and he thought that, on balance, the damage on the wing 
were more consistent with stone chips.
Mr L didnt agree with the view so his complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am very sorry to hear from Mr L about his family circumstances around the time of the 
claim, and especially his difficult time since then. I would like to send him my sympathies. 
Ive looked at the evidence Ive been given about his complaint, and having done so Im 
afraid Im not going to be able to uphold it. Ill explain why as I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment to him.
Ive looked at the cover under the policy wording and I can see that it covers:
Minor Cosmetic Damage: Accidental damage to the body work of Your Vehicle 
(excluding the roof) caused by a sudden and unforeseen incident during Day-To-Day 
Motoring resulting in:
a minor dent to a metal body panel; or
a minor scratch, not exceeding 30cm in length
There are other types of damage covered under the policy, but Ive not included them here 
as they arent relevant to Mr Ls situation.
Ive looked at Mr Ls photos of the damage to the wing, which seems to show three chips to 
the paintwork. I cant fairly say that I can see evidence of a dent or a scratch. 
As such, I dont think theres cover under the policy for the damage Mr L has evidenced. 
Fortegra has said the damage is excluded because it considers the damage to be stone 
chips. Ive thought about this in conjunction with the photos and the location on the front 
wing of the car, and, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Fortegra has applied its 
exclusion correctly. But as I have already said, I dont reasonably think that the policy would 
cover the three distinct chips anyway.
I know Mr L was also unhappy that the assessment of his claim using the photos hed 
supplied rather than a physical inspection by a person. I can see that Fortegras policy 
wording says it will assess claims remotely. Ive not seen any evidence from Mr L that hes 
had the damage inspected either, so I cant say Fortegra has acted unfairly in assessing the 
claim in this way.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman