DRN-3751548
The complaint
Miss K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined to pursue her chargeback claim. 
Shed like the cost refunded.  
What happened
Miss K holds an account with Barclays. She used her Barclays debit card to pay a merchant 
£950 for a dress. However, the order was not delivered when she expected it to be. After 
trying to resolve the issue with the merchant directly she contacted Barclays to raise a 
chargeback.
Barclays raised the chargeback. They then received evidence from the merchant which 
appeared to show that Miss K had emailed to confirm she was able to collect the order. On 
this basis Barclays declined to pursue the chargeback claim any further.
Miss K raised a complaint, saying that the information provided by the merchant was 
fraudulent. She provided information from her email account provider that she said showed 
she wasnt logged in to her email at the time. But Barclays didnt feel theyd done anything 
wrong. They said based on this evidence the card scheme provider had held her liable.
Unhappy with this answer Miss K referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt think Barclays needed to do anything further. They said chargeback wasnt a 
consumer right, and the rules are set out by the card scheme rather than the bank. They felt 
while Miss Ks evidence was worth considering, they felt the chargeback process was 
correctly followed by Barclays, and as such they acted reasonably.
Miss K disagreed. She also highlighted that she knew of someone with a claim in similar 
circumstances where Barclays had refunded the amount as a gesture of goodwill. As no 
agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking Barclays to do anything further. Theres no dispute here that 
Miss K authorised the payment to the merchant, so the starting position is that Barclays 
wouldnt be liable for refunding her. Miss K doesnt have an automatic right to a refund.
But as there is a dispute around the payment Barclays have raised a chargeback. As the 
investigator has pointed out chargeback isnt an automatic consumer right, rather its a 
mechanism by which banks can attempt to recover payments made using the consumers 
card. It isnt necessarily an appropriate way to resolve contractual disputes between a 
customer and a merchant. Its also important to bear in mind the rules on what evidence can 
be accepted and relied upon are laid down by the card scheme  in this case Visa.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Barclays to raise the chargeback initially, and to 
provide Miss K with a temporary credit of the amount. But this isnt a guarantee of success, 
and the temporary credit can still be withdrawn if the chargeback ultimately doesnt succeed. 
The merchant in this case didnt agree to the chargeback. They provided evidence to defend 
themselves. This is something they are entitled to do under the chargeback scheme rules. 
The next stage of a chargeback claim is called arbitration, where Visa would consider the 
evidence and make a decision. However, this isnt automatic, and Barclays would have to 
weigh up the likelihood of success based on the evidence available. The merchant provided 
emails from Miss K agreeing to collect the goods ordered, which would negate the need for a 
chargeback. Barclays found this evidence compelling. On this basis theyve decided against 
taking the chargeback claim further. Having reviewed this evidence, Im satisfied this was a 
reasonable decision.
Ive also reviewed the evidence Miss K has provided about logins to her email account, and 
her comments about the merchants evidence being fraudulent. I can also see that Barclays 
had the opportunity to scrutinise this evidence, but it ultimately didnt change their position. 
On balance, Im not persuaded this evidence is strong enough to say that Barclays should 
have proceeded to arbitration, or that the chargeback would likely have succeeded. So, I find 
it reasonable for Barclays not to pursue this avenue. I can see Barclays wrote to Miss K to 
let her know they had been unable to recover the funds, and that she may have to resolve 
the dispute with the merchant directly. This is a reasonable response.
Lastly Miss K has highlighted an instance where Barclays have refunded a different 
consumer in similar circumstances as a gesture of goodwill. While I cant comment on 
another case directly, what I would say is that generally businesses have a free hand to 
decide whether they issue refunds as gestures of goodwill or not. Even if it is something 
theyre not obliged to do, or something our service would recommend. My role here is to look 
at the circumstances of Miss Ks complaint and decide what is a fair outcome to both parties. 
Having done so Im satisfied there isnt a reasonable reason I can say Barclays should 
refund Miss K for the transaction
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman