DRN-3906792
The complaint
Miss K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard amended her direct 
debit payment to a fixed payment which resulted in her incurring interest.
What happened
Miss K says she received a text to verify transactions she had made on her account in 
October 2021. She says she had been making her full outstanding statement balance by 
direct debit, but then Barclaycard collected £1,000 a month via direct debit from her as 
opposed to the full statement balance, which resulted in interest being added to the account. 
She said she tried to make a payment to Barclaycard, but they returned the payment, so she 
made a payment from another account. Miss K made a complaint to Barclaycard.
Barclaycard did not uphold Miss Ks complaint. They said the direct debit instruction was 
amended by Miss K on 27 October 2021 so that a fixed amount of £1,000 would be collected 
rather than the full statement balance. They said the amendment was made using the 
Barclays Mobile Banking application (app). As such, they said interest was correctly charged 
in the months where payment to cover the full statement balance wasn't received by the 
payment due date. They said although this happened around the time they contacted her to 
verify transactions she had made, this had no impact on the direct debit instruction. 
Barclaycard said their records showed that the direct debit instruction was changed again on 
15 February 2022 to collect her full statement balance. They said the manual payment she 
attempted to make was returned to her, as the Barclaycard number she entered as the 
payment reference was incorrect by one digit.
Miss K brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld her complaint. He said 
Barclaycard hadnt provided him sufficient evidence to show that the direct debit was 
changed by Miss K. He said Miss Ks payments prior to, and after she realised the
instruction had changed showed she was paying the full balance off each month, so the 
change was out of character given her previous activity. So he said Barclaycard should 
refund any interest that was charged to her account during the time her direct debit was 
paying the fixed £1,000 amount.
Our investigator said the payment for £1,000 that Miss K attempted to pay Barclaycard was 
to an incorrect account number, therefore, Barclaycard hadnt made an error in not 
processing the payment as an incorrect account number was provided.
Barclaycard asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. They made a number of 
points. In summary, they said they had provided evidence that the direct debit was amended 
from a full payment to a fixed amount (£1000) and they had provided evidence to show the 
amendment was made online and the only person who could access the online account was 
Miss K. 
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard have provided evidence that shows that a £1,000 payment was attempted to be 
paid to Miss Ks account. But as it was one digit different to the account, this was rejected. 
Im satisfied that this was fair as a valid Barclaycard reference number was not entered.
Ive looked at the text messages Miss K received from Barclaycard and Barclaycards 
system evidence to determine what is likely to have happened on 26 October 2021. I can 
see that Miss K received a text at 19:57, which advised her they were completing a fraud 
check on her card and further texts would be from a different number. 
The next text Miss K receives from the same telephone number is a message from 
Barclaycard at 21:07 which includes the following, that payment wouldve taken you over 
your credit limit, so we stopped it. To get going again, check your balance and make a 
payment online or via the app. There is no further text message on the screenshot that Miss 
K sent us until 19 February 2022.
Barclaycards system shows that at 22:25 on 26 October, that the direct debit had been 
amended and an email had been sent to her. I know Miss K says she cant locate the email, 
but the evidence shows this was sent. Barclaycards system shows the next entry at 09:49 
on 27 October 2021 which indicates the direct debit has been amended to £1,000 a month 
and it has a code of AA DDCH. I asked Barclaycard why the system showed the entry on 
the following day and they told me that this was added later due to their systems update 
which occurs every 24 hours.  I also asked them if they could evidence what the AA DDCH 
code meant. They sent me a section of their procedures which shows that this code is used 
when a customer themselves amends a direct debit. 
So on the balance of probabilities, the evidence shows that Miss K amended the direct debit. 
I know she will strongly disagree with this, but there is no evidence of a staff member 
entering her account and changing the direct debit details, but there is evidence that she 
amended the direct debit based on the system evidence. 
Im satisfied that Miss K didnt intend to amend the direct debit amount. She has provided 
evidence of banking transactions which shows she had more than enough money to meet 
the payment. Its possible that when she viewed the text telling her to check your balance 
and make a payment online or via the app that she accidently changed the direct debit 
payment to £1,000 as opposed to making a payment of £1,000. I asked Barclaycard if I 
could have a copy of the app audit to see what actions Miss K had taken that day, but 
unfortunately, this information is not retained indefinitely, and it has expired, so it is not 
available for me to rely on here. 
Im satisfied the earlier text asking her to verify her transactions had nothing to do with the 
changing of the direct debit amount. It appears unrelated and Barclaycards system shows 
that Miss K replied via text to confirm the transactions she had made were genuine. 
It would be Miss Ks responsibility to regularly check her statements. These would have 
shown her what payments were being collected and what interest (if any) was being 
charged. Im satisfied that Barclaycard sent her a communication when her statement was 
available as I can see this from Barclaycards systems and the emails screenshots that Miss 
K sent our service. 
So I cant hold Barclaycard responsible for Miss K not checking her statements and not 
realising the full payment had not been taken, only £1,000 a month  unless the statement 
balance was less than £1,000. As the evidence shows Miss K amended the direct debit, then 
it would not be reasonable to ask them to refund interest that had been charged in line with the terms and conditions. So it follows I dont intend to ask Barclaycard to do anything else.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. Neither party responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider, then my decision 
and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman