DRN-3836868
The complaint
Mr B complains that Bradford & Bingley Limited (BBL) gave him unsuitable advice to 
contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). 
What happened
Mr B said that in February 1992, BBL approached him and offered to advise him. It then 
advised him to contract out of SERPS. Mr B followed the advice and decided to opt out of 
SERPS. 
BBL said that it couldnt find any evidence that Mr B had an Occupational Pension Scheme 
(OPS) available to him at the time of the advice. 
It should be noted that at the time of the advice, consumers in employment who werent 
contracted-out through an OPS, could do so on an individual basis. This meant that instead 
of building up an additional state pension during the period of contracting out, additional 
benefits would build up from the redirection of some of the consumers National Insurance 
Contributions (NIC) into a personal pension plan. This was an ongoing choice, so Mr B could 
choose to contract in or out of SERPS from tax-year to tax-year.
BBL advised Mr B to set up a personal pension plan with a provider Ill refer to as provider A. 
It was set up simply to receive the NIC that were redirected as a result of contracting out.  
There werent going to be any employer or employee contributions into the plan. 
At the time of the advice, Mr B was 37 years old, employed and earning between £10,000 
and £12,000 each year. 
Mr B said he was working for a named company - company B - at the time of the advice. 
And that he had only worked there for about a year. He said he wasnt sure if his employer 
offered an OPS at that time that he wouldve been eligible to join.
In January 2019, provider A sent Mr B a pension illustration which showed that his pension 
fund was worth £10,600. It also projected that the fund would provide an estimated yearly 
pension of £275 on retirement. 
Mr B brought a complaint about provider A to this service in early 2020. Hed received his 
estimated Contracted Out Pension Equivalent (COPE). This was significantly more each 
year than the pension provider A had estimated Mr B would receive from his personal 
pension policy. Mr B felt the difference in values had been caused by the unsuitable advice 
hed received. 
Provider A issued its final response on the complaint on 1 October 2020. It said that BBL 
had been responsible for the advice. It also noted that BBL hadnt had access to Mr Bs plan 
since 15 November 2008.
In February 2021, this service considered the complaint against provider A but didnt uphold 
it. Mr B raised a complaint with BBL. 
BBLs call notes from 23 April 2021 recorded that Mr B thought hed been working for 
company B at the time. But other files notes from BBL provide evidence that Mr B hadnt 
worked for the company he thought hed worked for between 1991 and 1992. 
BBLs call notes also recorded that Mr B didnt remember much about the discussions hed 
had with it at the time of the advice. He said he did remember that BBL had told him hed be 
better off if he contracted out. But he couldnt remember what hed been told about how the 
policy would grow. Nor could he recall whether hed been aware that the returns on his 
pension would depend on how well the fund he was invested in performed.
BBL gathered further information about Mr Bs employment and pension scheme history. It 
also received information about the contributions that had been paid into his pension plan 
with provider A over the period from 24 February 1992 to 3 June 2021. The information 
showed that Mr B had been a member of several other pension schemes over the years.
BBL issued its final response to the complaint on 30 November 2021. It didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said that Mr Bs age and earnings at the time of the advice indicated that 
contracting out of SERPs wouldve been suitable for him. 
Mr B was unhappy with BBLs response, so brought his complaint to this service. He said 
that if it had been made clear to him at the time that his investment could go down in value 
he wouldnt have contracted out.  He also felt that the adviser had told him he would be 
financially better off. But he considered that the value of his contracted-out funds was 
significantly lower than the additional state pension he wouldve received if he hadnt been 
advised to contract out.
Our investigator first considered whether the complaint was one this service could consider. 
As he felt that it had met the rules for bringing a complaint to this service, he felt it was within 
our jurisdiction and went on to consider the merits of the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt consider that the complaint should be upheld. He felt that Mr Bs 
personal and financial circumstances at the time of the advice met the key requirements for 
contracting out of SERPS. So he considered that BBL had acted fairly and reasonably when 
itd advised Mr B to contract out. 
Mr B didnt agree with our investigator. He made the following points:
his employment at the time of the advice had been temporary. And hed told BBL 
this.
The adviser had invested his funds with one of the worst performing companies in 
the sector, which he felt meant that BBL hadnt done sufficient research.
BBL had never told him that his fund value could go down as well as up. 
He said this service had upheld another complaint hed had against BBL. He felt this 
showed that it had a track record for giving incorrect financial advice.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has come to me for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I first considered whether I agreed with our investigator that the complaint was one this 
service had the jurisdiction to consider. I confirm that I agree that Mr B only became aware 
that he had cause for concern when he received the pension illustration from provider A in 
January 2019. This prompted him to request information about the additional state pension 
he wouldve been entitled to if he hadnt contracted out. 
Mr B felt this showed that he had lost out due to the advice. I note that Mr B brought his 
complaint to this service within three years of his cause for concern. And that as BBL also 
has no direct evidence to demonstrate that Mr B had an awareness that he had a cause for 
complaint more than three years before he complained, Im satisfied that the complaint is 
within our jurisdiction. 
As I noted above, BBL said it couldnt find any evidence that Mr B had an OPS available to 
him at the time of the advice. It also said that when Mr B had completed its employment 
history questionnaire, hed confirmed that hed joined the OPS of all his employers 
subsequent to company B. Mr B has also said that his job with company B was temporary.
Based on the evidence available, Im satisfied that Mr B didnt have access to an OPS at the 
time of the advice. So, Im persuaded that if he wanted to contract out at the time of the 
advice, he needed to open a personal pension plan. 
Id like to give some further SERPS background at this point. When the Government decided 
to allow individuals to contract out of SERPS - and offered incentives to do so - it didnt give 
advice about who should be advised to remain in SERPS and those for whom it was 
anticipated that contracting out would be beneficial. To provide clarity, pension providers 
made comparisons of the projected benefits from SERPS with those from a personal 
pension. These calculations were based on what were felt to be conservative assumptions of 
likely future investment returns at the time. 
In drawing up these comparisons, two key criteria were considered: age and earnings. 
These were both important as, although the consumer and employer continued to pay the 
normal level of NI contributions, once a year, the state paid part of these contributions into a 
personal pension plan. In some cases, the state increased this as an incentive to contract-
out. 
The amount paid into the personal pension plan was then invested in the hope it would grow 
sufficiently and the future benefits would be more than the consumer wouldve received from 
SERPS. This depended on the growth achieved and annuity rates at retirement. 
The rebates paid by the Government were one of the reasons where it couldve been 
considered more attractive for younger individuals to contract out than those who were older.  
The age, where the providers advice as to whether to contract out or not changed, is known 
as the pivotal age. Mr B 37 when he contracted out. As our investigator noted, historical 
pivotal age tables for major pension providers at the time showed that the lowest pivotal age 
for contracting out for a male was 40. Therefore contracting out wouldve been a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B at the time based on his age. 
The illustration produced at the time of the advice stated that Mr Bs salary was £10,000. Mr 
B thought his salary was £12,000 at that time. But Ive used £10,000 in my decision as it was 
the number that was documented.
For me to be satisfied that the advice to contract out was suitable at that time, Mr B wouldve had to earn over a certain level of annual income. The pivotal income requirements from 
1992 show that the minimum annual income requirement was £10,000. As Mr Bs income at 
the time met the minimum earnings threshold, Im satisfied that contracting out wouldve 
been a suitable recommendation for Mr B at the time based on his salary. 
So, in the context of his age and earnings, Mr B was within the guidelines for potentially 
benefiting from contracting out of SERPS. But there was no guarantee that he would be 
better off. The amount paid into his personal pension was invested in the hope it would grow 
sufficiently so that the future benefits would be more than those he wouldve received had he 
remained in SERPS. 
That depended on the growth achieved by the funds in which the pension was invested and 
the rates available at retirement for converting the pension fund into a pension for life. BBL 
quoted different possible projected annual pensions in the illustration it produced at the time. 
The illustrations used assumptions that complied with the regulatory basis in force at the 
time. 
I acknowledge that Mr B considers that he was told he WOULD be better off if he contracted 
out. He said hed never been told his investment could go do as well as up. But Ive seen no 
documentary evidence for this. And I also note that Mr B told BBL, when it spoke to him in 
April 2021, that he couldnt remember what hed been told about how the policy would grow. 
And nor could he remember whether hed been aware that the returns on his pension would 
depend on how well the funds hed invested in performed. Overall, Im not persuaded that 
BBL told Mr B that he would definitely be better off if he contracted out. So it wouldnt be fair 
or reasonable to uphold this complaint point.
Ive not seen any record of Mr Bs attitude to risk at the time. As the advice was given to Mr 
B over 30 years ago, theres very little documentation from that time. So, its difficult to say 
exactly what was and wasnt discussed. But taking into account the projected returns and 
the number of years Mr B had until retirement, it doesnt appear to have been an unsuitable 
proposition.
I acknowledge that Mr B considers that the BBL adviser invested his funds with: one of the 
worst performing companies in the sector, which means the financial adviser did not do a 
whole of market search for my best interest. But Ive no evidence that is the case. Neither 
BBL nor provider A couldve known how the markets would perform in future. And Ive also 
seen no evidence that BBL failed to do sufficient research on the recommended provider. 
Its disappointing that investment returns have been lower than anticipated and annuity rates 
more expensive than expected at the time Mr B was advised to contract out. This means that 
the gains from contracting out werent as great as had been hoped. And I can understand Mr 
Bs disappointment given he considers hes now worse off that if he hadnt contracted out. 
But this doesnt mean the advice given at the time was unsuitable. So I cant fairly uphold 
this complaint point. 
Ive also considered the other points Mr B made to this service. He said as wed upheld 
another complaint hed had against BBL, this showed that it had a track record for giving 
incorrect financial advice. This decision is solely based on the advice Mr B received about 
contracting out. And the evidence thats been shared with this service about that advice. It 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to base my decision on unrelated advice, even if it was also 
given by BBL. I say this because Ive no evidence that the advice given to contract out was 
unsuitable. 
I also considered Mr Bs point that BBL knew at the time of the advice that his employment 
with company B had been temporary. I dont consider this means that the advice to contract out was unsuitable. I say this because the decision to contract-out could be made in each 
tax-year. So Im satisfied that Mr B couldve reconsidered his decision once hed moved to 
more permanent employment.   
I acknowledge that Mr B feels hes worse off because he took BBLs advice to contract out of 
SERPS. But Im satisfied that when BBL advised him to contract out in 1992 there was a 
reasonable prospect, based on the reasonable assumptions made at the time, that he would 
be better off by contracting out. So Im not persuaded that BBLs advice to contract out of 
SERPS in the first place was inappropriate. And I consider that other financial advisers at the 
time would likely have recommended that Mr B contracted out. So I dont uphold the 
complaint. 
While I havent upheld this complaint, Id also like to note that Mr B feels that BBLs advice is 
what caused the entire difference between the additional state pension he wouldve got if 
hed not contracted out and the additional benefits hes likely to get from his personal 
pension plan with provider A. But I suspect that this isnt correct. I say this because it 
appears that Mr B has joined other OPSs over the years, and some of these couldve also 
been contracted out. So while I understand why Mr B is disappointed that he appears to be 
worse off, it could be the case that he has other guarantees within the OPSs hes been a 
member of that to some degree mitigate some of the difference.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 
Jo Occleshaw
Ombudsman