DRN-4153822
The complaint
Mr O complains, with the help of a representative, that James Hay Administration Company 
Ltd (James Hay) accepted the in-specie transfer of Elysian Fuels shares into his self-
invested personal pension (SIPP) without undertaking appropriate due diligence, ensuring 
the shares were independently valued or having proper procedures in place for transactions 
of this nature. 
What happened
Mr O established a SIPP with James Hay. A SIPP application form noted that an employer 
contribution of £100,000 was to be paid into the SIPP. The application form was signed by 
Mr O on 16 July 2012. An additional initial cash contribution of £1,495 was paid into the 
SIPP by cheque by Mr Os company.
Mr O bought 100,000 shares in Elysian Fuels in his personal capacity by way of paying a 
16p per share cash contribution and with the 84p per share balance financed by a limited 
recourse loan. He then sold these shares to his company at £1 per share, in connection with 
this sale, £100,000 was paid to him by his company. Later, on 3 October 2012, these shares 
were transferred in-specie into his SIPP by way of an employer contribution from his 
company. 
Mr O later purchased a further 96,000 shares in a later tranche of Elysian Fuels in his 
personal capacity in the same manner as set out above. He then sold these shares to his 
company at £1 per share, in connection with this sale, £96,000 was paid to him by his 
company. These shares were transferred in-specie into his SIPP by way of an employer 
contribution from his company on 4 April 2014. This complaint relates only to this 
transaction. 
James Hay has told us that no tax relief was claimed at source in respect of these 
contributions. 
The Elysian Fuels scheme has since failed, and the shares transferred into Mr Os SIPP are 
valued at nil. 
Background to the complaint
Mr O complained to James Hay on 7 January 2020. James Hay issued a final response 
letter on 17 January 2020 explaining that it thought the complaint had been referred to it late. 
Unhappy with James Hays response, Mr O referred his complaint to this service. 
As noted above, Mr O purchased and sold two separate tranches of Elysian Fuels shares 
which were transferred into his SIPP by way employer contributions at different times. This 
complaint relates only to the second tranche of shares, what happened in relation to the first 
tranche of shares is being considered under a separate complaint. James Hay objected to 
us considering these two separate events as separate complaints, one of our investigators 
explained why it was appropriate to do so under the circumstances. 
The investigator went on to look into Mr Os complaint. She concluded that the complaint 
had been raised within six years of the event complained about and so had been raised in 
time and was one we can consider but, in her view, Mr O hadnt suffered a loss as a result of 
James Hays actions. She concluded that: 
Mr O had purchased the Elysian Fuels shares in his personal capacity at 16p per 
share (with the rest of the purchase being funded by a limited recourse loan) and 
then sold them at £1 per share to a company (of which he was a director). James 
Hay had no involvement in this transaction. From this Mr O gained the tax-free 
release of monies from his business. 
His business then transferred those shares in-specie to Mr Os SIPP by way of an 
employer contribution. Any impact the transactions may have had on the company, 
financial or otherwise, is not relevant here as Mr O has complained in his personal 
capacity. 
In any event, Mr O had failed to evidence any adverse tax implications resulting from 
this transaction. Despite us having requested copies of correspondence from HMRC. 
Overall, theres no evidence that Mr O has suffered any loss in his personal capacity 
as a result of James Hays acceptance of the in-specie transfer of Elysian Fuels 
shares. 
Mr O disagreed and made further submissions, he said: 
He had incurred fees that he wouldnt have if James Hay hadnt accepted the in-
specie transfer. And fees were charged for services that James Hay failed to 
undertake. 
Mr Os employer would have paid a £96,000 cash contribution into his pension, if 
James Hay hadnt accepted the Elysian Fuels shares as an in-specie transfer.
The tax implications associated with this transaction have caused Mr O distress. 
The investigator confirmed that the submissions didnt change her view of the complaint and 
they had been added to Mr Os case for the ombudsmans consideration. 
Because agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint was passed to me for review. I sent 
the parties to this complaint my provisional decision, explaining why I didnt think Mr Os 
complaint should be upheld. Mr O disagreed with my decision and made further 
submissions. Briefly, he said: 
He has incurred costs that he wouldnt have incurred if James Hay had not accepted 
the in-specie transfer of Elysian Fuels shares to his SIPP. 
He was charged stamp duty on each of the in-specie transactions. 
He wouldnt have incurred the fees associated with the establishment and ongoing 
administration of the SIPP if James Hay hadnt accepted the in-specie transfer of the 
Elysian Fuels shares. 
The various consequences of the transactions that are the subject of this complaint 
have caused him stress and inconvenience. 
James Hay didnt make any further submissions.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having reconsidered all of the information weve received, along with the submissions made 
in response to my provisional decision, my findings remain as set out in that decision. Ive 
largely reiterated these below. 
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position 
and Im grateful to them for taking the time to do so. Ive considered these submissions in 
their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my findings, on what I consider to be 
the main points, and reasons for reaching them.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The Elysian Fuels scheme in this case was an unusual arrangement. It often involved buying 
shares largely with a limited recourse loan and then selling those shares to the SIPP so that 
funds were paid out of the pension scheme to the investor. This is, as I have said, an 
unusual arrangement and on closer inspection HMRC was not happy with it. It found that 
such payments were unauthorised payments and imposed unauthorised payment charges, 
surcharges and interest. It has also denied a number of different tax reliefs claimed in 
connection with the Elysian Fuels scheme. However, in this instance its of note that the 
shares were transferred into the SIPP by way of an in-specie transfer, so no monies were 
released from the SIPP  and, whilst Mr O may have purchased the shares in the manner 
set out above, the party (Mr Os business) transferring the shares to his SIPP had actually 
paid £1 per share. 
There are numerous examples of investment schemes that are set up to make use of tax 
concessions which push, with varying amounts of aggression, at the boundaries of the 
purpose of the concession. Sometimes people invest in those schemes without 
understanding there is a risk that HMRC might challenge the scheme. Sometimes people 
invest in those schemes understanding and accepting the risk HMRC might challenge the 
scheme. And over recent years, as seen for example with film partnerships, HMRC has been 
more and more active in challenging the schemes it thinks are tax avoidance schemes.
Weve been provided with redacted correspondence from HMRC in which it said, in relation 
to the Elysian Fuels scheme, that: 
Elysian Fuels is an undisclosed mass marketed multi use tax avoidance scheme 
which HMRC considers one of the main purposes of the arrangements was to secure 
a tax advantage. You have entered into a scheme where the tax benefit exceeds the 
potential return from the underlying business plan. You did not pay a cash 
contribution of the purported £1 per share and the loan finance was provided on 
uncommercial terms in addition the loan finance was never in your control being paid 
directly to the special purpose vehicle. The funding of the whole scheme is of a 
circular nature and the funds were never available for the underlying purpose. 
The promoter of the scheme has recently confirmed that no formal valuation of the 
shares was carried out and did not consider any third parties had sufficient 
information or access to documentation to carry independent valuations. There was a 
valuation of the underlying business assets which were owned by another entity but 
neither the Elysian Fuels LLP nor the Special Purpose Vehicle funding company 
owned any tangible assets. This is a complex valuation issue and HMRC initial view 
is the shares had no value when the transaction took place.As set out at the outset of this decision, Mr O purchased 96,000 shares in Elysian Fuels in 
his personal capacity. He then sold these shares to his company at £1 per share, in 
connection with this sale £96,000 was paid to him by his company. These shares were 
subsequently transferred in-specie into his SIPP by way of an employer contribution from his 
company. So, the activity thats the subject of this complaint was part of a wider endeavour 
undertaken by Mr O and Ive considered this carefully in reaching the conclusions set out 
below.
Mr O complains in his personal capacity that James Hay failed to comply with its regulatory 
obligations and act in his best interests in connection with its decision to accept the in-specie 
transfer of the Elysian Fuels shares from his company. 
Im not persuaded that Mr O suffered adverse tax implications as a result of James Hays 
decision to permit the in-specie transfer of the Elysian Fuels shares. No monies were 
released from Mr Os SIPP in connection with this transaction, so he hasnt been pursued for 
an unauthorised payment charge and James Hay has confirmed that no at source relief was 
claimed on this contribution. 
I acknowledge that Mr O may have suffered tax implications as a result of his personal 
investment in Elysian Fuels shares and subsequent sale of these to his business, but I dont 
think this could fairly and reasonably be linked to an act or omission on James Hays part. 
Its also possible that Mr Os business faced tax implications as a result of these 
transactions, but it is not the complainant in this complaint. 
Mr Os SIPP was established some time before the transaction thats the subject of this 
complaint and he continued to utilise it for a number of years after this transaction. Whilst 
taking into account what Mr O said in response to my provisional decision, Im not 
persuaded in this case that it would be fair and reasonable to direct James Hay to refund to 
Mr O fees charged in connection with the operation of his SIPP. 
Stamp duty was paid in connection with the re-registration of the Elysian Fuels shares. This 
charge isnt specific to Elysian Fuels and is applied to transactions of this nature regardless 
of the particular asset. The re-registration did take place in this instance, and, in the 
circumstances of Mr Os case, Im not persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable to 
direct James Hay to refund this charge. As noted above, the activity thats the subject of this 
complaint was part of a wider endeavour undertaken by Mr O and Mr Os company paid a 
cash contribution into the newly established SIPP.
I note that Mr O has also said that his employer (his business) would have paid a £96,000 
cash contribution into his pension, if James Hay hadnt accepted the Elysian Fuels shares as 
an in-specie transfer. At the point James Hay decided to permit the in-specie transfer of 
Elysian Fuels shares to Mr Os SIPP, his business had already paid £96,000 to him in cash 
for the purchase of the shares in question. On the evidence provided to us to date, Im not 
currently satisfied its more likely than not that if James Hay had refused to accept the in-
specie transfer of these shares that his business would have instead made a cash 
contribution of £96,000 to his SIPP. 
Im also not persuaded that James Hay has caused Mr O stress and inconvenience for 
which it should fairly and reasonably compensate him. 
In my view, in the unusual circumstances of Mr Os case, even if James Hay did not carry 
out adequate due diligence on the Elysian Fuels scheme and or undertake sufficient steps 
before deciding to accept this in-specie transfer (and I make no finding on that point), I dont 
think Mr O has been caused a loss for which it would be fair and reasonable to hold James Hay responsible. So, in the particular circumstances of his case, I do not uphold Mr Os 
complaint and I make no award.
My final decision
Taking everything into account and for the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Os complaint and I make no award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Nicola Curnow
Ombudsman