DRN-3830143
Complaint
Mr M says that MBNA Limited (MBNA) unfairly failed to notify him that the interest free 
balance transfer period had ended on his account.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ms complaint and she thought that MBNA hadnt acted 
unfairly to Mr M and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed. So the 
case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I dont think that MBNA has treated Mr M unfairly. Ill 
explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that while Mr Ms account was no longer entitled to 
use his card to make new purchases from July 2018 onwards, he did nonetheless already 
have an outstanding balance of some £5,500.00 on his account. And only some of this 
balance was interest free  approximately £3,000.00 - for a period, as while Mr M had a 
balance transfer offer, the additional £2,500.00 or so he owed was made up of purchases 
that didnt qualify for the same interest free promotional offer.   
Furthermore, while Mr M may have believed that no interest would be charged on this 
balance because he was merely paying off what he owed at a rate of £150 a month and 
wasnt able to use his card, Ive not seen anything to suggest that he was informed this was 
the case. Indeed, it is usual practice for interest to continue to be added in this way in the 
event an amount remains owing even if a card isnt used for further transactions. 
Ive also seen that the interest being added was showing on Mr Ms statements. I know that 
Mr M has said that he never had access to his statements. But I can see that they were 
generated. And given Mr M was in relatively regular contact with MBNA during this period  
often because he wanted to make a manual payment  I would have expected Mr M to have 
queried his balance and/or requested further copies of his statements, if he genuinely didnt 
have access to them.
Finally, Ive seen that Mr M has said that he should have been notified when his promotional 
interest free balance transfer period ended. I agree that it is good practice for a card provider 
to let a customer know when a promotional rate on a credit card is coming to an end. And 
MBNA has provided screenshots from its records on Mr Ms account indicating that, in 
October 2019, it sent a text message to the number it held for Mr M as well a letter to Mr Ms 
address explaining that his promotional interest free rate was ending in November 2019. 
MBNA has also provided a copy of the letter and this appears to show that it was correctly 
addressed.
I appreciate that Mr M has said that he didnt receive either of these communications. I dont 
know whether he did. But MBNA has provided sufficient evidence to persuade me that it did 
send them. Given this is the case, I cant see what more it could have done to notify Mr M 
that his promotional rate was ending. So Im satisfied that MBNA took reasonable steps to 
notify Mr M that his promotional interest rate was ending in advance of it doing so. As this is 
the case and bearing in mind what Ive said already, I dont think that MBNA unfairly added 
interest to Mr Ms balance and I dont think that the amount he is being asked to pay is 
incorrect either. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that MBNA has treated Mr M 
unfairly or unreasonably. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Ive not upheld Mr Ms complaint, Id like to remind MBNA of its obligation to 
exercise forbearance and due consideration if its the case that Mr M is experiencing 
financial difficulty. Id also encourage Mr M to get in touch with MBNA and co-operate with 
any reasonable requests, if this is the case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman