DRN-4394064
The complaint
Mr B says that Oplo PL Ltd (who Ill call Oplo) unfairly declined his claims under the
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA) in relation to a timeshare product he was sold in
March 2019. He also says the loan wasnt affordable for him and that Oplo were therefore
irresponsible to extend the credit.
Mr B has been represented by a professional representative who Ill call PR and he entered
into the timeshare agreement with his partner, but as the finance agreement
was in his sole name, I will refer only to Mr B or his representatives in this decision.
I mean no disrespect to Mr Bs partner when doing so.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August of this year. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below. 
In March 2019 Mr B relinquished a pre-existing timeshare agreement with a supplier Ill call
Az and exchanged it for points to be used towards a timeshare product with the same
supplier. He financed the balance of £13,000 through a fixed sum loan with a finance
provider Ill call H. That finance agreement was regulated by the CCA.
In August 2022 Oplo acquired Mr Bs account from H and assumed the obligations that H
had in respect of the account and also the investigation of any complaints relating to the
servicing of the account. Oplo are now, therefore, the correct respondent for this complaint.
As some of the actions and submissions have been taken/made by H, and some have been
taken by Oplo, to save confusion, I will simply refer to Oplo in this decision.
In April 2021 Mr B complained to Oplo about problems he had encountered with the
timeshare product. There were a number of allegations and its not practical to reproduce
them all here, but I have taken note of them. He said the nature of the timeshare had been
misrepresented to him, so he was able to make a claim against the lender under section 75
of the CCA. He also said that there was an unfair debtor-creditor-supplier-relationship under
section 140A of the CCA, that Az were unable to provide the service hed been sold as they
had now been liquidated, and that Oplo had been irresponsible to provide him with credit he
couldnt afford.
Our investigator disagreed. He didnt think thered been a misrepresentation or that there
was evidence of an unfair relationship, and he wasnt persuaded there was sufficient
evidence that the loan was unaffordable for Mr B. He explained that although Az had been
liquidated the management of the service had been transferred to another business and that
there hadnt been a breach of contract.
PR didnt think the investigator had provided sufficiently detailed reasoning about why the
claim should fail. They enlarged on their opinion that the timeshare product had been
misrepresented to Mr B as an investment, and they asked for a decision by an ombudsman.
So, the complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
Reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision here as its been some time since the investigator provided
his view and I cant see weve responded to all of the issues in the case.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations; regulators rules, guidance, and standards;
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my decision.
The Consumer Credit Act 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a fixed sum loan, as was the
case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of the Consumer
Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement
has a right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
Section 56 of the CCA is relevant in the context of section 140A of the CCA that Mr B also
relies on, as the pre-contractual acts or omissions of the credit broker or supplier will be
deemed to be the responsibility of the lender, and this may be taken into account by a court
in deciding whether an unfair relationship exists between Mr B and Oplo.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr B may have under sections 75 or 140A
but Im required to take the provisions into account when deciding whether Oplo were
reasonable to reject Mr Bs claims.
The claim under section 75 of the CCA
Misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party to
a contract to the other, which is untrue, and which materially influenced the other party to
enter into the contract.
This wasnt Mr Bs first transaction with the supplier. I think, by 2019, Mr B would be well
aware of how the general timeshare product scheme worked. I dont think many of the
issues Mr B claims were misrepresented to him initially can fairly be considered to have
been significant reasons why he was persuaded to enter into a further agreement a couple
of years after his first, with the same supplier. I think by that time hed have significant
experience of the system and how it worked. Some of the misrepresentations Mr B
complains of therefore, in my opinion, fade away, but Ill consider what I think are the more
pertinent ones here.Mr B says the timeshare was sold as an investment and that he anticipated at least breaking
even when he sold it. I dont think theres sufficient supporting evidence to suggest the
timeshare product was sold as an investment. Indeed, the standard information form
explained that:
Resale values or timeframes cannot be guaranteed and are subject to offer and demand.
So, Im not persuaded that a court would consider Mr B had been mis-sold the product as an
investment.
Mr B also says that Az have breached their contract with him as they have been liquidated
and are therefore no longer able to provide the service he purchased. It seems that the
management of Azs products have been taken over by another company V and that
company continues to offer the same services provided under the timeshare agreement. Ive
not been presented with any evidence to suggest Mr B has been unable to access his points
or receive the service he paid for. So, I dont agree the contract has been breached and, as
such, I dont think Oplo were unreasonable to reject Mr Bs section 75 claim.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Section 140A CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and creditor
arising out of the credit agreement (taken together with any related agreement).
I do not consider it likely that a court would conclude that the lenders acts and/or omissions,
or those of the supplier or credit broker as agents of the lender, generated an unfair debtor 
creditor relationship.
Mr B relies upon a number of clauses in the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading
Regulations 2008 (CPUT Regulations) that his representatives suggest created an unfair
relationship between him and Az. We know it is common that these sales presentations
often lasted for a number of hours. Ive therefore considered whether there is evidence that
Mr Bs ability to exercise choice was significantly impaired by the pressure and aggressive
sales tactics he says he experienced.
Regulation 7 of the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008 (CPUT
Regulations) seems to expand on the everyday definition of pressure. At the time of sale,
Regulation 7 stated that a commercial practice was aggressive if, in its factual context and
taking account of all of its features and circumstances, it:
a. significantly impaired or was likely to significantly impair the average consumers freedom
of choice or conduct in relation to the product concerned through the use of harassment,
coercion, or undue influence; and b. caused or was likely to cause the consumer to take a
transactional decision they would not have taken otherwise as a result.
Regulation 7(2) went on to say that consideration must be given to the timing, location,
nature, and persistence of the practice. And when thinking about whether undue influence
was applied, Regulation 7(3) said that thought must be given as to whether the Supplier
exploited a position of power in relation to the consumer so as to apply pressure, even
without using or threatening to use physical force, in a way which significantly [limited] the
consumers ability to make an informed decision.
Mr B had already attended a presentation with the same supplier in 2017, so I think he would
have been likely to have had an understanding of the approach that would be taken. I dont
think Ive been provided with sufficient information to suggest Mr B didnt understand hedidnt have to say yes to the agreement or that he didnt understand he could walk away
without entering into it. He was also provided with a 14 day cooling off period and I think that
allowed him to reflect and withdraw from the agreement and the loan if he wished.
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Bs ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired contrary to Regulation 7 of the CPUT Regulations.
PR also claims that an unfair relationship existed because Mr B wasnt told about the
commission Az received from Oplo. Oplo have confirmed that no commission was paid in
this case so I think its unlikely a court would find there was an unfair relationship for that
reason.
PR also say that Mr B wasnt offered a choice of lenders. Az wasnt acting as an agent of Mr
B and his partner but as the supplier of contractual rights they obtained under the Purchase
Agreement. And, in relation to the loan, it still doesnt look like it was the Suppliers role to
make an impartial or disinterested recommendation or to give Mr B and his partner advice or
information on that basis. However, even if its right to suggest that Mr B and his partner
should have been presented with a range of lenders to choose from, theres little to nothing
to demonstrate that they have suffered a financial loss because they entered into a credit
agreement with Oplo rather than another lender. And, for that reason, Im not persuaded that
created or contributed to an unfair relationship between Mr B and Oplo on this occasion
given the facts and circumstances of this complaint.
PR say that the annual maintenance fees have increased well above the rate of inflation
each year and that was not properly explained to Mr B prior to entering the contract. The
Club Rules, at page 8, explain that the annual membership renewal fee will include
maintenance costs and that there will be no increase until 2025. The rate of increase
thereafter is explained in those rules. So, I dont agree that there have, as yet, been any
increases, and I think the increases thereafter have been adequately explained to Mr B and
his partner in the Club Rules. I dont think Oplo have therefore been unreasonable to reject a
claim that there was an unfair relationship in that regard.
Was the loan irresponsible?
Mr B says that the lender was in breach of its obligations to carry out an adequate credit
assessment to determine whether he could afford to repay the loan. He says that they had
strict obligations to complete a creditworthiness check under the Financial Conduct
Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) and failed to undertake those obligations.
However, when considering a complaint about unaffordable lending, a large consideration is
whether the borrowing was likely to prove unaffordable in practice and whether the
complainant has actually lost out due to any failings on the part of the lender. So even if I
was persuaded that the lender did not do appropriate checks (and I make no such finding),
for me to say it needed to do something to put things right, I would need to see that the
credit granted by them was likely to be unaffordable and that Mr B suffered a loss as a
result. Ive not been provided with sufficient evidence from Mr B to suggest he didnt have
enough disposable income to sustainably afford repayments against this loan, and I dont
therefore, think it would be reasonable to suggest the lender was irresponsible when
providing the credit.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not expecting to uphold this complaint.
Further comments and/or evidence
Oplo, now trading as Tandem Personal Loans Ltd, didnt have anything to add. PR explained that they had spoken to Mr B and there was little more that could be added. They provided a 
transcript of that call in which Mr B explained that the timeshare was sold as a brand new 
product which would greatly increase the timeshare experience they already had. It would 
allow them access to holidays at better locations and a wide range of promotion products
including supercars, yachts, lodges and motor homes he added that Their previous 
purchase was sold as an investment, and they were relying on the fact that this would be 
equally marketable. They were not told that the resale department was closing or had
closed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mr Bs additional comments, Im not persuaded that Mr B has provided 
any additional information that would lead me to change my provisional decision. My 
provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman