DRN-4319057
The complaint
Mr P complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund money he lost when he fell 
victim to an investment scam.
What happened
The details of what happened are well known to both parties and have also been previously 
set out by the investigator. So, I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving 
my reasons for my decision.
The complaint concerns two payments totalling £10,004.47 which were made from Mr Ps 
Monzo account in August and November 2021 respectively. Mr P sent the funds to his 
cryptocurrency wallet with a crypto exchange for conversion into cryptocurrency, which was 
then sent on to his account with a firm G. But G subsequently turned out to be a scam. 
Mr P contacted Monzo about it in the August of the following year. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Under regulations and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, 
banks should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The 
starting position is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even 
where they are duped into making that payment. Theres no dispute that Mr P made 
the payments using his security credentials, and so they are authorised. 
The first disputed transaction  £5,000 on 14 August  was made through the faster 
payment system. And Mr P made the second transaction  £5,004.47 on 
10 November  using his Monzo debit card. Although Monzo hasnt signed up to the 
voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, which requires signatories 
to reimburse customers who are victims of authorised push payment scams in all but 
a limited number of circumstances, it has publicly committed to acting within the spirit 
of the Code where it applies. But the CRM Code doesnt apply to the payments Mr P 
made from his Monzo account. This is because card payments, as well as faster 
payments between accounts held by the same person, arent covered under the 
Code. 
While I find the CRM Code doesnt apply here, that code is not the full extent of the 
relevant obligations that could apply in cases such as this. In accordance with the 
law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank should be on the look-out for and 
protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent 
banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for losses incurred by its 
customer as a result. 
In Mr Ps case, his Monzo account had been opened just days prior to the first 
disputed transaction. Where theres no previous account history, what should 
reasonably strike to Monzo as concerning for a first payment isnt solely down to the 
transaction amount involved. Purchasing cryptocurrency is a legitimate exercise. 
Whats more, Monzo has provided internal system screenshots of the information 
that was captured at the time Mr P applied for the account. Amongst other questions, 
he was asked how he expected to use his Monzo account. Cryptocurrencies is the 
recorded response. 
Mr P submits that the information wasnt requested during the application process. 
He suggests that it was captured later, possibly in 2022. I recognise the strength of 
his feelings on the matter. In my experience, its not unusual for payment service 
providers to ask for the intended purpose of the account being applied for. In this 
case, based on the evidence Monzo has provided, Im persuaded that the information 
pertains to Mr P and that it was captured when he applied for the account.
In the circumstances, the provision of a general warning about scams during the 
payment journey would have been a sufficient step for Monzo to take when Mr P 
authorised the transaction in question. Ive reviewed the technical audit data and I 
can see that a new payee warning was displayed on the screen before the 
transaction was completed. Therefore, I dont think Monzo acted unreasonably in 
following Mr Ps authorised instruction.
   
The next transaction wasnt until three months later. As this was also to a 
cryptocurrency exchange and was similar in value to the previous transaction, I dont 
consider Monzo ought to have been concerned such that it should have questioned 
Mr P. I can see hes contended that it should have been concerned at the time, given 
that hed already attempted to send the funds just days prior, but they were returned 
to his account. I understand the point Mr P is trying to make. However, there was a 
five-day gap between the funds debiting his account and being sent back. Monzo 
couldnt have reasonably known that it was the reversal of the earlier transaction and 
that the funds had been rejected. The transaction would simply have appeared as a 
credit from a crypto wallet. Regardless, funds can be returned by a cryptocurrency 
exchange for several reasons, including but not limited to exceeding daily limit or 
information mismatch. I wouldnt have expected Monzo to know why the transaction 
was rejected even if it was able to tell that this is what had happened.         
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to recover the funds 
once it became aware of the situation a year later, as in some circumstances the 
money can be recovered. Mr Ps payments went to a cryptocurrency exchange and 
Monzo could have only attempted recovery from it. In relation to the debit card 
payment, he wouldnt be able to make a successful chargeback claim in the 
circumstances because the merchant he paid did provide the service requested (i.e., 
conversion of fiat money into cryptocurrency). As for the faster payment, once the 
funds were converted into cryptocurrency, they were transferred out of Mr Ps crypto 
wallet. So, no funds would have remained for Monzo to recover. 
In summary, I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr P. Not 
least because the matter has been ongoing for some time. Despite my natural sympathy for 
the situation in which he finds himself, I dont find that Monzo has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. So, I wont be making an award against it. My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman