DRN-2982973
The complaint
Mrs O has complained on behalf of Miss R about the way that Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc (RSA) handled a flood claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2019 Miss Rs home was flooded by external water due to heavy rain and 
blocked sewers. She didnt make a claim to RSA until February 2020 because at first she 
hoped to dry and clean the property herself.
RSA accepted the claim. It appointed a restoration company to strip and dry the property. 
Work didnt start during lockdown. In June 2020 Miss R contacted RSA about the work 
starting. She said her home was very damp.
RSA appointed a restoration company which tried to dry the property. The drying company 
told RSA the property couldnt be properly dried because it either didnt have a damp proof 
course (DPM) or the DPM had failed.
At the end of September RSAs contractor stripped out Miss Rs kitchen. That meant she 
had no cooking facilities, washing machine or heating since the radiators had been 
disconnected. In October work stopped. The contractor said it couldnt continue as the 
property was still damp. It refitted the radiators and washing machine. It said Miss R needed 
to fix the DPM before it could continue reinstating the property. As Miss R couldnt afford to 
do this, RSA agreed to render the walls with a sand and cement mix to form a barrier 
against the damp on the basis that it wouldnt be liable if there were more damp issues in 
future. 
The works were largely completed just before Christmas 2020. However there were a 
number of snagging items. RSA gave Miss R various options to resolve this and she chose 
a cash settlement which was paid on 15 January 2021. In early February Miss R contacted 
RSA again about more snagging items that had come to light. RSA agreed a further cash 
settlement.
In total over the course of the claim RSA paid Miss R £1,000 compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience it had caused her. As Miss R didnt think this was enough, Mrs O brought 
her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He thought the 
amount of compensation paid by RSA was fair.
As Miss R didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Now that the claim has been settled, I believe the only issue that remains is the amount of 
compensation RSA should pay Miss R for the shortcomings in its service to her. So Ill focus 
on that.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble and upset the insurer has caused to its 
policy holder above and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated with a 
claim of this type. Ive highlighted the main shortcomings below.
RSA accepts that its contractor caused some delay and inconvenience to Miss R by starting 
the strip out of the kitchen before it was properly dry. That meant work had to stop for about 
one month in order for the drying company to return. Although the heating was put back on 
and the washing machine reconnected, during this time Miss R had no sink, worktops or 
cooking facilities in her kitchen. That meant she lived on takeaway food and had to wash up 
in the bath.
I can see that RSA did its best to minimise the inconvenience once it was aware of this 
problem. It offered Miss R alternative accommodation but Miss R chose not to accept it. It 
also offered her a number of other options such as a pop-up kitchen pod but for various 
reasons none of them were workable solutions. RSA paid Miss R an allowance of £10 a 
person a day to cover her additional food costs. 
There were various problems caused by RSAs contractor. Walls had to be replastered and 
redecorated because of sub-standard work. Workmen damaged Miss Rs new sink and 
worktop. Even though RSA paid for these things to be put right, it would have been upsetting 
to see the poor workmanship and unnecessary damage just when her kitchen should have 
been finished. 
Miss R is a vulnerable consumer who found the situation she was in very stressful even 
before things started going wrong. To its credit though I think RSAs claims handler made 
allowances wherever possible to make things easier for Miss R. For instance it waived the 
requirement for a plumbers invoice before reimbursing Miss R and went to some lengths to 
have a new sofa ordered by Miss R delivered to its suppliers premises because her home 
wasnt ready in time.
Its only fair for me to recognise that RSA has acknowledged its service should have been 
much better and that it has offered a total of £1,000 on top of the food allowance to 
compensate Miss R for the trouble and upset caused by its poor service. Having taken all 
the circumstances into account I think that compensation of this amount is fair and 
reasonable. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Miss R but Ive thought 
about this services approach to awards made in similar circumstances and I dont think I can 
fairly award any more. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman