DRN-1640130
 
The complaint
Mr B complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and have been set out by the 
investigator - so I wont repeat them again here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for 
my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr B was about three and a half years old, had been 
driven for 20,382 miles and had a price of £8,995;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors;
the car that was supplied to Mr B is black but hes provided photos showing red paint 
appearing in a number of places in the cars paintwork and, on the basis of the 
evidence that Ive seen, I consider it to be more likely than not that the car (which 
was originally black) has been painted another colour at some stage and then 
repainted black;
Mr B says that he first contacted the dealer about an issue with the paintwork within a 
few months of the car being supplied to him - but I understand that he didnt complain 
to MotoNovo Finance about it until July 2019 and that the dealer says that the issue 
wasnt raised with it until August 2019  but I dont consider that its reasonable to 
expect a car that was only about four years old and which cost £8,995 to have an 
issue such as this with its paintwork and I consider that its more likely than not that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr B because of that 
issue;
I consider it to be clear that theres an issue with the cars paintwork and Im not 
persuaded that an independent report is required to consider whether the issue was 
present when the car was supplied to Mr B; 
the hire purchase agreement shows that Mr B paid a cash deposit of £500 for the car 
- and the investigator recommended that MotoNovo Finance should end the 
agreement, collect the car from Mr B and refund his deposit, with interest;
I consider that to be fair and reasonable in these circumstances - but Mr B says that 
he should also receive compensation for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused;
I sympathise with Mr B for the distress and inconvenience that hes described but 
hes had the car and been able to use it and I dont consider that the issues with the 
paintwork or the bumper that hes complained about are enough to stop him driving 
the car; and
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require MotoNovo 
Finance to pay Mr B any compensation for that distress and inconvenience or to 
refund to him any of the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement  I 
consider that its fair and reasonable for it to keep those monthly payments as 
payment for the use that hes had from the car.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for MotoNovo Finance to 
end the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr B  both at 
no cost to him  and that it should refund the deposit that he paid for the car, with interest.
My final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and I order FirstRand Bank 
Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mr B  
both at no cost to him.
2. Refund to Mr B any deposit that he paid for the car.
3. Pay interest on the deposit above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 3 above. MotoNovo Finance must give Mr B a certificate showing how 
much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 July 2020.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman