DRN-1957531
The complaint
Miss A complains that U K Insurance Limited cancelled her insurance policy without notice. 
She now cant afford to insure her vehicle. 
What happened
Miss A pays for her motor insurance on a monthly basis. In March 2020, she missed her 
instalment and was asked to call. She called on 16 March and informed the call handler she 
would make payment the following day. Miss A didnt make the payment. 
On 17 March 2020, UKI sent Miss A a letter about the non-payment of her instalment. It also 
warned her that if payment wasnt made, her policy would be cancelled on 31 March 2020 if 
payment wasnt made by that date. Her policy wasnt cancelled on that date due to a backlog 
caused by the pandemic and availability of staff. 
Miss A called on 7 April 2020 to find out when the last day she could pay was.  The call 
handler confirmed March and Aprils instalments were outstanding and that she needed to 
pay as soon as possible. Miss A confirmed she was getting her student grant through on 
Saturday and would pay then. The call handler confirmed the office was open on Saturday, 
or alternatively early the following week. He also confirmed she was insured at that point. 
Miss A didnt make the payment. UKI subsequently cancelled her insurance on 28 April 
2020. 
On 1 May 2020 Miss A called up to the make the payment. It wasnt until after she made 
payment she was informed the policy had, in fact, already been cancelled. She was offered 
reinstatement of the policy if she paid the whole premium, but it later transpired that 
shouldnt have been offered. Miss A complained as she hadnt been given warning of the 
cancellation. She was unhappy as this meant she had been driving without insurance and 
she could have lost her qualification. She also thought the offer to reinstate the policy on 
payment of the full annual premium was blackmail. 
UKI upheld the complaint in part. It agreed it should have told her the policy had been 
cancelled before payment was taken and so it offered her £50 compensation. But it didnt 
think it was wrong to cancel the policy and was satisfied it had given notice of this in March 
2020.
Our investigator was satisfied UKI had fairly resolved the complaint. She concluded notice of 
cancellation had been given in March and she felt £50 compensation was sufficient for what 
went wrong when payment was taken. Miss A has asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman. She argues she wasnt notified of the intention to cancel the policy in April and 
doesnt believe £50 compensation is sufficient. She says this has risked her losing her 
qualification. 
The case was referred to me for a decision. Via the investigator I asked Miss A to confirm 
why she didnt make the payment for the arrears when she said she would in April. In 
summary, she said she was reassured because she was told she was still insured, that lots 
of provisions had been put in place because of the pandemic and was told she didnt need to 
pay it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss A had her policy cancelled. I need to decide whether that cancellation was done in 
accordance with the terms and conditions. And if it was, whether it was fair for the insurer to 
cancel the policy as it did.
The starting position is the contract between Miss A and the insurer  the policy document. 
The terms and conditions say, at General Conditions (11):
If we have been unable to collect the instalment(s) due under your credit agreement 
on the date(s) due, we will write to you in order to give you the opportunity to make 
the payments(s). 
If any instalment amount remain(s) unpaid by the date we set out in our letter, we will 
give you 14 days notice that we will cancel your policy, and inform you in writing 
when this cancellation has taken place.   
Miss A missed her March instalment. She was asked to contact UKI, which she did on 16 
March 2020. Despite her promise to pay the following day, she didnt make a payment. UKI 
wrote to her that day, 17 March 2020, giving her 14 days notice of cancellation if the 
instalment wasnt paid by 31 March 2020.  Miss A still didnt make any payment.
Im satisfied this letter meets the requirements set out above, to give Miss A 14 days notice 
of cancellation. Ive carefully considered whether the call that took place on 7 April 2020 
meant that notice no longer had effect or meant UKI ought to have issued a new notice. 
Having listened to the call, Im not persuaded it does. 
Had things gone as set out in the notice, Miss As policy would already have been cancelled 
by the time she called on 7 April. It was only because the country had gone into lockdown, 
and staff moved to different working circumstances, that meant her policy was still active  a 
backlog of work had built up. It was to Miss As benefit she was still insured at that time, 
when she ought not to have been. So when the call handler confirmed she was still insured, 
that was factually correct; she was because the policy hadnt yet been cancelled. But far 
from saying Miss A didnt have to pay, the call handler said she needed to pay as soon as 
possible. And by then she was two instalments overdue. Miss A said she was going to pay 
the following Saturday. The call handler confirmed it would be ok if she paid then, or early 
the following week. 
I accept the handler did indicate that it had been affected by the lockdown and there were 
backlogs and delays. I also accept the overall tone of the call was reassuring. But at no point 
did the call handler rescind the previous cancellation notice. And Im not persuaded there is 
anything within the call that means UKI shouldnt be able to fairly rely on it. I have 
considered Miss As argument that if she had been told she was still at risk of cancellation 
she would have taken steps to pay the instalment sooner. Im not persuaded by this  she 
had already been given that warning and had been told she needed to pay the two 
instalments as soon as possible. But she didnt make any attempt to pay until 1 May, nearly 
a month later. Overall, having considered the matter carefully, Im satisfied Miss A was given adequate 
notice of cancellation in advance of that being done. And as Miss A didnt make payment 
when she said she would, Im satisfied UKI cancelled the policy in accordance with the 
terms; she had breached the contract by not paying her instalments when due. I do 
understand Miss A finds this unfair, but Im satisfied she was given adequate warning and a 
number of opportunities to pay the outstanding instalments which she didnt take. 
It isnt clear if UKI wrote to Miss A to tell her the insurance was cancelled; if it did it doesnt 
appear that was successfully delivered. So I can understand her concern when she found 
out she had been driving without insurance. I accept this could have had a detrimental effect. 
But Ive not seen any persuasive evidence that she has lost a qualification as a result. Whilst 
we do make awards for financial loss or if distress and/or inconvenience has been suffered, 
Ive not seen persuasive evidence Miss A has suffered the impact she argued was possible. 
I dont think it fair to make an award for an event that might of have happened but didnt. 
Finally, I turn to the call handlers suggestion that Miss A pay the full annual premium in 
order to reinstate her policy and that it took payment before notifying her the policy was 
cancelled. I understand Miss A finds the suggestion to pay the entire premium inappropriate. 
But I dont draw the same negative inferences from that, as she does. However, UKI has 
offered £50 because payment was taken before she was notified the policy had been 
cancelled.  I accept she should have been told and overall I find £50 fair compensation for 
that. 
I do understand Miss A is in a difficult position, not least because she doesnt currently have 
insurance and she has found finding new insurance too expensive. But as I havent found 
the policy was cancelled unfairly, or contrary to the terms and conditions, I wont be making 
an award against UKI for that.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that U K Insurance Ltd has already fairly resolved 
this complaint. I require it to pay Miss A £50 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020. 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman