DRN-2037365
The complaint
Miss T complains about the poor handling of her claim under her home insurance policy by 
Aviva Insurance Limited and the damage caused by its contractors to her flooring and drive.
What happened
Miss T called Avivas agents in December 2018 to free up a blocked pipe, but its contractor 
arrived with the wrong equipment and couldnt do the job. Later that month very heavy 
rainfall surged into Miss Ts home over the blockage which damaged her floor. 
Miss T complained to Aviva and it sent a contractor who attempted to jet spray the drainage 
pipes clear. Miss T said they were left in working order, but the contractor thought there was 
a collapsed pipe. Five days later the contractor found the whole pipework system compacted 
with sand and advised that it needed replacing as the soakaway had been overloaded. Miss 
T said this led to her patio being dug up and a defunct pipe identified. She said it took some 
while for the patio to be satisfactorily restored and she complained to Aviva
In January 2019 Aviva acknowledged that Miss T had suffered delays, missed appointments 
and poor workmanship. It said it would assess and pay for the repairs for which it was 
responsible and paid her £400 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Miss T said she was left with no rainwater drainage to the rear of her property as a 
consequence of the incompetence and poor workmanship of Avivas contractors. She also 
said that the contractor damaged her driveway by parking a large vehicle there.  
In February the contractor sent an engineer who found poor repairs to the drainage by the 
first contractor. He said they had partly removed a downpipe and had only replaced one end 
of the pipe but hadnt joined it to the existing pipework. He said a pipe had been removed 
which carried water from the patio to the soakaway and was replaced with one that didnt 
reach the soakaway. The engineer said the pipes were now blocked and the damage to Miss 
Ts floor must have come from a blocked downpipe unable to deal with heavy rainfall. 
In May 2019 contractors surveyed Miss Ts drains and found damage that allowed a leak 
under her house. Miss T said this had been missed by previous contractors and she was left 
without a working drain. Aviva disputed that it was responsible for the damage to Miss Ts 
floor and drive and declined to cover the repair costs for these problems. It did offer Miss T 
further compensation of £400 for the trouble and upset she had been caused. The surveyor 
advised that the drains were incorrectly installed too close to the property, were incorrectly 
bedded with sand and didnt meet regulations. He said the pipes had 90-degree bends and 
are too small. Avivas agents said the property has inadequate drainage configuration.
Miss T referred her complaint to us saying shed taken time off work to meet contractors over 
eight months, including missed appointments and she was concerned about her job. She 
said the stress of dealing with the claim had adversely affected her medical condition. Miss T 
thought the damage to her floor was due to the jet spraying. 
The investigator said thered been many visits and missed appointments with contractors ill-
prepared for the tasks. This meant Miss T had been inconvenienced, but she thought the 
£800 compensation was fair. The investigator said Avivas agent appeared to accept it would 
cover the costs of repair and asked Miss T to get a quote. But suppliers couldnt do a patch 
repair as the floor had lightened and so the full floor would need replacing. Further costs 
were added for repair of the screed, removing the skirting boards and redecoration. She said 
Avivas agents response was that they werent liable and wouldnt offer to cover the repairs.
The investigator said the contractors reported that sand was backed up from previous jet 
spraying and blocked the soakaway. And that sand shouldnt have been used to line the 
pipes and the drainage didnt meet building regulations. She said this wasnt fair as it was 
installed years ago, and current regulations shouldnt be applied. She said the engineer 
drove a very large van onto Miss Ts drive and parked on a sloping section. She said this 
caused damage which could have been avoided and should be repaired by Aviva. 
The investigator recommended that Aviva pay for the new floor in its entirety, fix the 
soakaway and pay for the repairs for damage to Miss Ts drive.
Aviva disagreed with the investigator about the repairs. Aviva agents said Miss Ts 
soakaway was already inadequate and her driveway wasnt in a good condition and they 
werent persuaded that parking a 2.7-ton vehicle on the drive caused any additional damage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at Avivas records of the claim and Miss Ts comments. Its clear there have 
been avoidable delays and slow progress by Aviva and its agents as well as some poor 
communications. I can well understand Miss Ts frustration at the time taken to identify and 
to agree rectification work.   
Im pleased that Aviva has apologised to Miss T for the poor service she received, and I 
think the compensation, of £800 for Miss Ts distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
I can see that Avivas agents wrote to Miss T saying they would pay for any repairs for which 
they were liable. I think this was a reasonable response to what had happened, however it 
appears that when costs started to escalate due to the more extensive repairs required, they 
decided they werent liable and declined to assist. 
I have looked to see if liability for the repairs should properly be Avivas. We arent experts in 
determining the liability for building faults and so we rely upon the expert evidence available. 
In this case the surveyor found fault with the drainage system. A drains survey followed, 
which found sand backed up from the jet spraying and the soakaway blocked and made 
references to poor workmanship. From this I think its fair to say the effectiveness of the 
soakaway was impaired by Avivas agents actions in jet spraying the pipework.
It was found by Avivas contractor that water had come up through Miss Ts floor as a 
consequence of a back surge of rain water from a downpipe. Aviva hasnt drawn a 
conclusion about accepting liability from this report, but its agents said the damage was pre-
existing. However, I havent seen any evidence of this and the damage to her floor wasnt 
present before the contractors carried out their work. Similarly, Avivas surveyor indicated that the engineers van was likely to have damaged 
Miss Ts drive, but Avivas agent described the driveway as inadequate, without providing 
any supporting evidence. The vehicle parked on Miss Ts drive was heavy and wasnt 
suitable for the steep drive and in my view is likely to have caused the damage.
I think the available evidence points to the cause of the problem as the lack of working 
drainage at the property. Adding to this there was also heavy rain around that time. Although 
the evidence isnt completely clear, on balance as the problems that emerged werent 
present before Avivas agents involvement, I think the damage is likely to be due to the 
failure of Avivas contractor to clear the blocked drain before the storm. I think there were 
contributory factors with the effect of a blocked soakaway with poorly connected pipes. As I 
consider that this was damage likely to have been caused by Avivas agents I think Aviva 
should pay to repair the damage.
Our service expects insurers to make effective and lasting repairs. Sometimes that means 
undertaking more work than that required to resolve the immediate problem. And so, in this 
case I think it is fair and reasonable for Aviva to replace all of the ground floor flooring and 
any other related work that will bring Miss Ts home back to the position it was in for before 
the damage occurred. And it should repair her soakaway and driveway.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I 
require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay to repair Miss Ts new floor in its entirety, pay to 
repair the soakaway and pay for the repairs for the damage to Miss Ts driveway caused by 
its agents van. 
I also require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Miss T £800 compensation (or any amount of 
this that remains unpaid) for the distress and inconvenience its poor service caused her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman