DRN-4367410
The complaint
Miss N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked her account. They removed the funds 
from her account. Miss N says she was stressed by the block and the removal of funds  
she would like compensation.
What happened
I am aware that Miss N has another case with our service regarding the closure of her 
account which will be dealt with separately.
The facts which led to Miss N bringing her complaint to our service are well known to both 
parties, so I am not repeating them in full here.
In summary, Miss N had a current account with Barclays.  Miss N paid a large amount of 
cash into the current account.  In late August 2022 Barclays carried out a routine review of 
the account and requested Miss N contact the bank. On 9 September 2022 the current 
account was blocked for review. Barclays removed the balance from the account some 
£55,000 and marked the account to reconcile.
Miss N says as a result of the block she has suffered stress. She wasnt told about the block. 
She went into branches to try and sort it out. She was concerned that the communication 
she was getting via text messages from Barclays may be a scam. She was concerned that 
her money had disappeared from her account. She was anxious when she saw a text 
suggesting she owe the bank over £400,000. She missed bill payments and had to take time 
and effort to sort out her bills and arrange for payment because the account was blocked. 
Miss N says she was told in branch not to worry about the account review.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint she thought Barclays had done nothing 
wrong when they reviewed and blocked the account. The removal of the funds were part of 
the process that Barclays follows when they review an account, so she didnt think Barclays 
had acted unfairly. As Barclays hadnt made an error when reviewing and blocking the 
account, the investigator didnt award compensation.
Miss N was unhappy with the view. As there was no agreement the matter has come to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Miss N 
and Barclays have said before reaching my decision.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Miss Ns account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. 
Barclays has important legal and regulatory obligations to meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply when an account is opened. 
They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to know its customer, verify their 
sources of income, as well as detect and prevent financial crime.
Barclays will review accounts to comply with its responsibilities. And its common industry 
practice for firms to restrict access to accounts or remove funds to conduct a review - doing 
so helps prevent potential financial loss or other harm that could otherwise result. I know 
Miss N was concerned that her funds were removed from her account and her account was 
showing as over £400,000 overdrawn. But as Ive said this is part of Barclays process when 
blocking an account and carrying out a review. I find Barclays acted fairly by blocking 
Miss Ns account and didnt need to tell her the full reasons behind its decision. 
I am aware Miss N says she wanted to be given notice that Barclays intended to block her 
account, but Barclays dont need to tell her this and they havent acted unfairly in not doing 
so.
Barclays blocked the account from 9 September 2022 to 22 September 2022. I have looked 
at the evidence and Im satisfied Barclays didnt cause any delays when they blocked the 
account. 
Miss N said she wanted compensation for the time she was without access to her money. 
She says she suffered a lot of stress and spent time and energy arranging for her bills to be 
paid in a different way as her account was blocked. I appreciate that Miss N had a stressful 
time and ended up expending a lot of energy trying to get her bills paid on time during the 
block period.  However, as Ive said Barclays is entitled to block the account and didnt do 
anything wrong when it removed the funds from her account during the block, so I wont be 
awarding compensation for this although I recognise Miss N was inconvenienced by the 
block.
Miss N has said she is unhappy she was told not to worry about the review when she went 
into branch. As Ive said reviews of accounts are carried out regularly by banks to comply 
with their legal obligations. Although I appreciate the concern Miss N had, I think the bank 
was trying to reassure her that the review was routine. So, I dont think they did anything 
wrong in saying this. 
In summary Although I accept that the block had an impact on Miss N, I think Barclays acted 
fairly when they reviewed and blocked Miss Ns account and I dont think they need to do 
anything here. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I dont uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman