DRN-3193622
The complaint
This complaint is about an early repayment charge (ERC) Mr K was billed when he repaid 
his mortgage with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc. He says he was forced to pay the mortgage off 
because Bank of Ireland insisted he do so. 
What happened
The broad circumstances of this complaint are known to Mr K and Bank of Ireland Im also 
aware that the investigator issued a comprehensive response to the complaint, which has 
been shared with all parties, and so I dont need to repeat all of the details here. 
Our decisions are published, and its important that I dont include any information that might 
result in Mr K being identified. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the main points and then 
focus on giving the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be 
because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
Mr Ks mortgage was comprised of two parts; the main advance and a further advance. 
Originally, both parts of the mortgage had been due for repayment in 2019, but in 2016, the 
term of the main mortgage was extended to 2021, to enable Mr K take out a five-year fixed 
rate interest rate deal.
In the latter part of 2019, Bank of Ireland sent Mr K a series of letters reminding him that the 
further advance was due for repayment at the end of the year. Mr K arranged a new 
mortgage with a different lender; this completed in early 2020, repaying both elements of the 
Bank of Ireland mortgage. In keeping with the terms of the 2016 fixed rate agreement, 
Bank of Ireland levied an ERC on the main mortgage. Mr K thinks that was unfair.
Our investigator didnt think Bank of Ireland had done anything wrong. Mr K asked for the 
complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point here is the 2016 mortgage variation offer; its dated 14 September 2016. 
From reading it, Im satisfied it set out (in a manner that meets the information requirements 
of the FCA) that the main advance had five years and one month to run; i.e to October 2021. 
It said that an ERC would be payable if the main advance was repaid before 30 September 
2021. The offer also detailed that the further advance account was subject to a different 
interest rate deal, with no ERC, but had only three years and three months to run; i.e. to 
December 2019.
The 2016 fixed rate deal was taken out on a non-advised basis; that means Bank of Ireland 
didnt recommend it to Mr K. It was up to Mr K to satisfy himself that the terms of the offer, in 
their entirety, met his needs and circumstances. If Mr K wanted the term of the further 
advance extended to match that of the main advance, he had the opportunity to do so then. 
So Im satisfied Mr K entered into the 2016 mortgage changes knowing hed have to repay 
the further advance before the main advance had cleared its ERC period. When a further 
advance falls due for repayment before the main advance, its possible to repay it and keep 
the main advance running; its only when its the other way around (the main advance falling 
due first) that both must be repaid together. So, I cant agree that the terms of the underlying 
contract between Mr K and Bank of Ireland forced him to repay the main advance at a time 
when an ERC would be incurred.
I see nothing untoward in the letters Bank of Ireland sent Mr K during the latter part of 2019; 
neither in frequency nor in content. Lenders are required by the FCA to send letters such as 
these to borrowers who have an interest-only mortgage for which the due date for repayment 
is imminent. By sending those letters, Bank of Ireland wasnt threatening Mr K or forcing his 
hand; it was doing exactly what a prudent lender is required to do.
It was how Mr K responded to those letters that led to him incurring an ERC. 
Notwithstanding his claims to the contrary, theres nothing in the available evidence to 
suggest he ever approached Bank of Ireland to ask for a term extension on the further 
advance. 
All of the evidence Ive been given to consider, from both parties to the dispute, points to one 
conclusion; that Mr K elected to pursue a re-mortgage to another lender off his own back. By 
doing that, Mr K put himself in the position of having to repay both parts of the mortgage, not 
just the one that was due. That was Mr Ks prerogative but it was also his choice, and he 
must accept the consequences of the choice he made.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman