DRN-1341125
 
The complaint
Mr E complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
                      
What happened 
This complaint is about 10 loans Sunny provided to Mr E between January 2015 and March 
2017. 
Heres a table showing details of those loans: 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 19/01/2015 30/04/2015 6 £200.00
2 13/03/2015 31/03/2015 6 £50.00
3 11/06/2015 30/11/2015 6 £200.00
4 18/08/2015 29/01/2016 6 £50.00
5 11/10/2015 31/03/2016 6 £50.00
6 22/01/2016 29/07/2016 6 £150.00
7 11/06/2016 30/11/2016 6 £100.00
8 01/08/2016 31/01/2017 6 £100.00
9 10/12/2016 Sold 6 £150.00
10 07/03/2017 Sold 6 £100.00
 
Mr E mainly said that the lending wasnt affordable and if Sunny had done further checks on 
his credit record it wouldve seen that he was struggling financially. Our adjudicator investigated and came to the overall view that whilst loans 1-5 hadnt been 
unfair, the pattern of lending itself showed that from loan 6 onwards the borrowing was 
unsustainable  so Sunny shouldnt have given Mr E loan 6 or any of the loans that followed. 
Our adjudicator set out the steps he felt Sunny should take to put things right for Mr E.
Sunny didnt agree with everything in our adjudicators view letter  but it offered to uphold 
the complaint from loan 8 onwards. Sunny sent details showing how it would work out the 
refund it was willing to pay to settle Mr Es complaint. 
We passed this information on to Mr E  but hes told us he doesnt want to settle the 
complaint on this basis as it isnt in line with what our adjudicator recommended.
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income) 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr E could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint.
I agree with our adjudicator about loans 1-5. I havent seen enough information fairly to be 
able to say that Sunny shouldnt have provided these loans. And, as it seems Mr E hasnt 
objected to what our adjudicator said about not upholding these loans, then I don't think 
I need say more about loans 1-5. 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr E with a view to seeing if 
there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Es case, I think by loan 6 Sunny should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt have provided 
any further loans. I say this because at this point Sunny ought to have realised:
Mr E was not managing to repay his loans sustainably. Ive taken into account that 
Sunny says the variable loan amounts show Mr E borrowed according to his needs at 
the time and there is no pattern to indicate the loans were not suitable. But by the 
time he asked for loan 6, Mr E had been borrowing from Sunny for 12 months. So, 
even taking into account the break in lending in May 2015, it wasnt reasonable of 
Sunny to think his situation had improved and he was now asking to borrow because 
of a new need for a short term loan - rather this record of borrowing indicates 
ongoing money problems.
 
Successfully repaying his loans doesnt mean Mr E managed to do so in a 
sustainable way. And borrowing and repaying this number of loans early suggests to 
me that Mr  Es finances were not in a stable position.
 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr E was borrowing further 
to cover the hole repaying each previous loan was leaving in his finances rather than 
using the loans for their intended purpose of helping him manage a temporary or 
unexpected cash flow problem. 
 
Ive carefully considered everything Sunny has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view. But I dont think its offer goes far enough. For the reasons Ive explained, 
I think Sunny shouldve seen that by the time Mr E took out loan 6 there were clear signs 
that he had become reliant on this sort of expensive credit. So it shouldve realised then that 
it was unfair to continue lending to him. And Sunny shouldnt have provided loan 6  or any 
of the loans that followed. 
I think that Mr E lost out when Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Es indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time. 
 
the number of loans which Mr E borrowed was likely to have negative implications on 
Mr Es ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans. 
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 6 through to 10. 
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
Sunny sold the outstanding debts so it should buy these back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Sunny isnt able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr E towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything it 
has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr E which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr E originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr E as though they had been repayments 
of the principal. If this results in Mr E having made overpayments then these should 
be refunded with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Sunny 
should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move to step "E".
 
D. If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in 
a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr E. However if there is still an 
outstanding balance then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Mr E.
 
E. The number of loans taken from the point of loan 6 means any information recorded 
about these is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 - 10 should be removed from Mr 
Es credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Es complaint about loans 6 - 10. Elevate 
Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) should pay Mr E as set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman