DRN-4481458
The complaint
Mr H complains about the price quoted by Wakam to renew his car insurance policy. He also 
complains about how an accident, which wasnt his fault, has impacted his No-Claims 
Discount. 
What happened
Mr H received a renewal invite which he says was significantly higher than what hed paid 
the previous year. He says his car was involved in a collision with an untraced/uninsured 
driver for which he wasnt at fault, yet this impacted his protected No-Claims Discount 
(NCD)  which he says was reduced from 15 years down to five years. Mr H felt it was 
unfair for the price to be impacted in this way, so he complained. Wakam responded and 
explained they were unable to recover their outlay, so the claim was settled as a fault claim. 
They said the NCD is only protected up to a limited number of years.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H. He thought Wakam hadnt treated Mr H unfairly 
in relation to the pricing, and they also hadnt acted unreasonably in reducing Mr Hs NCD. 
Mr H disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr H will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mr H paid £1,284.57 for his policy in 2022 but then received a quote for £2,667.72 
in 2023  which is more than double what hed paid the previous year. So, I understand why 
Mr H is concerned about the price increase. Wakam have provided me with confidential 
business sensitive information to explain how Mr Hs price increase was calculated. 
Im afraid I cant share this with Mr H because its commercially sensitive, but Ive checked it 
carefully. And, Im satisfied the price he has been quoted has been calculated correctly and 
fairly and Ive seen no evidence that other Wakam customers in Mr Hs position will have 
been charged a lower premium. 
As mentioned above, I cant provide specific detail about Wakams risk model, but I can see 
two main factors for the price increase relate to claims inflation and also the fault claim 
appearing on Mr Hs policy. In relation to claims inflation, its been widely publicised that 
insurers have been impacted by the rising cost of settling claims  and this is attributable to 
increases in the costs of parts, labour and other costs incurred by insurers. So, its not 
unusual or uncommon for claims inflation to be taken into account when an insurer is pricing 
a policy. In this case, Ive seen how this impacted the price, so I cant say Wakam have 
treated Mr H unfairly in applying any adjustments in their ratings to account for this. 
Another factor which has impacted the price is the fault claim recorded on Mr Hs policy. I 
acknowledge Mr H says he wasnt at fault for the incident, so I understand why hes 
concerned about the claim being recorded in this way. I also acknowledge Mr H says he was 
able to recover his excess from an organisation handling his untraced/uninsured claim. I 
acknowledge Mr H questions how, given he was able to recover this, he can be seen as 
being at fault for the incident. 
  
I think its important here to clarify how insurers decide whether a claim is treated as fault or 
non-fault. When a claim is made on a policy, an insurer will generally look to assess, from a 
liability point of view, who was at fault. If its found that a third party was at fault  and this 
isnt in dispute  an insurer will generally arrange any repairs to their policyholders car and 
look to recover their outlay from the third partys insurer. If an insurer is able to make a full 
recovery, theyll treat the claim as non-fault. If however, the insurer isnt able to recover their 
full outlay, for example, if a third party is untraced/uninsured, then any costs incurred in 
repairing their policyholders car wont be recoverable from a third party. And in these cases, 
because the insurer wont have recovered their outlay from a third party, they would treat this 
as a fault claim  and thats generally the case even if, from a liability perspective, the 
policyholder wasnt at fault. In this case, given that Wakam havent been able to recover their 
outlay, its not unreasonable for them to treat the matter here as a fault claim. 
Turning now to the rating factors which have been impacted by there being a fault claim, I 
can see an additional loading has been applied to these ratings. So, I cant say Wakam have 
made a mistake in their pricing calculation. I acknowledge Mr H may feel this is unfair given 
the accident circumstances but, as mentioned above, Wakam havent treated Mr H unfairly 
in recording the settlement as a fault claim. 
I understand Mr H is also concerned about his protected NCD being reduced from 15 years 
down to five years. Ive looked at Mr Hs policy booklet which sets out the terms and 
conditions. This sets out how the NCD works and explains if Wakam make a payment which 
they arent able to recover or cannot recover from another party, the NCD will be reduced to 
nil. In Mr Hs case, his NCD was protected, and the section of the policy booklet which 
explains this sets out a table showing the impact of a fault claim on a protected NCD. This 
shows, if a policyholder with more than five years NCD, and with protected NCD, has a fault 
claim, then the NCD will reduce to five years. 
I acknowledge why this was frustrating for Mr H, but I cant say Wakam have acted unfairly 
here as theyve reduced Mr Hs NCD in line with the terms and conditions. I acknowledge  
Mr Hs concern that he paid extra to protect his NCD yet it has still been reduced. The table 
shows, had Mr H decided not to protect his NCD, then it wouldve reduced down to nil. But, 
by protecting it, the impact of one fault claim has meant Mr H still retained five years NCD. 
I know this isnt what Mr H wanted, but Wakam have acted in line with the terms and 
conditions in taking this step. 
I can see Mr H refers to the police taking action against a third party and them being issued 
with a fine. Its not clear what charges were brought, but if a third party has been traced, I 
think Mr H is able to refer this to Wakam to consider whether any recovery can be made. I 
think its important to make Mr H aware, any recovery may still be unlikely if the third party 
was uninsured, but I think it would be fair for Wakam to consider this further if Mr H provides 
the relevant information. My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman