DRN-3479748
The complaint
Mr E is complaining that IG Index Limited didnt execute the limit orders on his spread bets, 
resulting in financial losses.
What happened
In the run up to the Airbnb Initial Public Offering (IPO), IG was offering clients the opportunity 
to trade on Airbnb before the listing went live. In effect, clients were speculating on the 
estimated value of Airbnbs market capitalisation (market cap) before the IPO.  This is known 
as a grey market.
Mr E opened some short positions in the Airbnb grey market and, anticipating significant 
volatility, set up limit orders to close these positions if the market fell below certain points. On 
the day of the IPO, IG stopped and reopened trading in the Airbnb grey market, and during 
the stoppage switched the grey market to follow the price of Airbnb shares on the day of the 
IPO. Mr E says there was no guidance which explained thats what IG would do. And he 
says it meant the grey market product wasnt allowed to reach its natural conclusion  so he 
suffered losses. 
Mr E expected the grey market to run independently of the Airbnb share product, with an 
expiry time of 9pm. But when the Airbnb IPO went live on the IG platform, the grey market 
price appeared to fall significantly, and trading was suspended. Once trading reopened, the 
grey market price moved back up again and then followed the known market cap at the time 
based on the Airbnb share price. Mr E says that his limit orders should have been triggered 
as the price went through them.
When Mr E complained to IG, they said theyd correctly switched the price feeds for the grey 
market. They said before an IPO the grey market would have been priced according to IGs 
estimate of the value, but when the listing opened, the price feed was switched across to the 
Airbnb share price, as a more accurate indicator of where the market cap would settle. They 
said the changeover of price feeds is a manual process and it was this that had caused the 
apparent volatility during the period that trading was switched off  they said the volatility 
wasnt real. 
IG offered Mr E £250 to apologise for any confusion caused but Mr E didnt accept their offer 
 so he brought his complaint to our service. He said the product hadnt been clearly 
explained and mentioned the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Principle 7  A firm must 
pay due regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate information to them 
in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. He added that if hed known the grey 
market price would switch to track the share price hed have made different investment 
decisions. And he said if the grey market price was supposed to track the share price, it 
should have triggered his limit orders.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. She said the trading history showed that the 
price hadnt dropped through Mr Es limit order prices so there was nothing to suggest the 
limit orders should have been executed. And she didnt think the information IG had provided 
was unclear or misleading. Mr E disagreed with our investigator and asked for an 
ombudsman to review his complaint  so its come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint. I realise this will be disappointing for 
him, but Ill give my reasons below.
The information provided by IG
IG explained a grey market on its website at the bottom of the webpage promoting the 
Airbnb IPO. This says: 
A grey market enables you to speculate on a companys estimated market cap before its 
shares are released. If you think the estimated value of the company is over- or under-
priced, you can use the grey market to back your prediction. 
Its important to note that, when you decide to trade the grey market, youre trading on the 
estimated valuation. The official market valuation  is released after the first day of 
trading  and it is based on the demand shown by the market that day. When this 
happens, the grey market will settle.
Elsewhere on IGs website, theres a similar definition of grey market. This says: The price 
of a grey market is a prediction of what the companys total market capitalisation will be at 
the end of its first trading day.
Its notable that no explanation is given of where the estimated valuation or prediction 
comes from, either before or after the IPO goes live. What happens is that IG set an initial 
estimate and then increase or decrease that over time according to market sentiment  
taking into account trading in the grey market but also other news and analysis. Once the 
IPO goes live, the real-time share price and market cap is known  and is considered the 
best predictor of the closing market cap for the first day. 
Mr E says this means the grey market effectively expires when the IPO goes live. But even 
once Airbnb shares were trading on the open market, clients still had the opportunity to 
speculate on what the market cap would close at that day  a figure that was unknown until 
9pm. So I dont think it was misleading for IG to say the grey market would settle after the 
first day of trading or at the end of its first trading day.
I also cant say it was unreasonable for IG to start using real-time share price data as its 
estimate of the closing market cap  it makes sense that they would use the best information 
they had available. And switching the feeds over meant that this was updating automatically 
in real time rather than needing frequent manual updates. As Mr E pointed out, IG has a duty 
to communicate in a fair, clear, and not misleading way. This includes a duty not to mismark 
the value of instruments. So Im satisfied IG acted fairly and reasonably in how they priced 
the product. I know Mr Es main point of complaint is that IG didnt explain that they would 
use share price data. But I cant see that it makes any difference  they didnt explain at all 
how they would determine the estimated value at any given time. Their customer agreement 
also doesnt give any information on how a quote is determined  it simply says that IG will 
provide a quote when asked and that this must not be Manifestly Erroneous.  Mr E seems 
to have assumed that the estimated market cap is entirely market-driven  but I cant see 
any basis for that assumption. And in any event I cant see how that could have impacted 
Cs trading decisions or ability to predict the market movements.Should Mr Es limit orders have been triggered?
Mr E had limit orders set up at various points between $56 billion and $62 billion  meaning 
that if the estimated market cap fell below these points his positions should close 
automatically. Mr Es sent us charts from IGs website which appear to show that the lowest 
estimated market cap on the date of the IPO was $48 billion. So I can understand why he 
thought his limit orders should have been triggered.
However, as IG have explained, the grey market was closed for trading briefly while the price 
feed was switched to mirror the Airbnb share price. It was during this time that the volatility in 
the price occurred and IG have explained this is due to the manual switching. The process is 
known to generate inaccurate prices  which is why trading was closed briefly. The lowest 
figure of $48 billion was never traded  as Ive seen from IGs list of trades that day. In order 
for Mr Es limit order to have been triggered, someone would have had to be willing to sell 
the positions to him  but no one was trading at that price. So I cant say Mr Es limit order 
should have been triggered  the real price didnt reach the trigger point. 
Mr Es view is that if IG were switching the feed to track the Airbnb share price, this should 
have included the IPO price  which was $68 per share or a market cap of around 
$47 billion. But trading of the Airbnb shares didnt open at this price  they opened much 
higher at $146 per share. And, as Ive explained above, IGs pricing of the grey market was 
an estimate of where the market cap would settle at 9pm. Given the trading conditions, its 
not reasonable to say IG should have estimated the market cap would settle at around $47 
billion simply because that was the IPO valuation.
In summary, Im satisfied IG provided enough information about the grey market. And Im 
satisfied IG acted fairly in not triggering Mr Es limit orders. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Es complaint about IG Index Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman