DRN-3967659
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sky UK Limited gave him incorrect information, which induced him into 
taking out a fixed sum loan agreement for a Smart Watch.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr S says he wanted to get a Smart Watch for his daughter. He says he 
looked on Skys website beforehand, to see what their signal coverage was like in his area. 
Mr S says he put his post code into Skys signal map and found that the coverage was good. 
Before he bought the Smart Watch, Mr S says he also spoke to an advisor from Sky in a 
telephone call. He says the advisor repeated what hed seen on Skys signal map and was 
given assurances that all the functions of the Smart Watch could be used. Mr S decided to 
go ahead and get the Smart Watch and took out a fixed sum loan with Sky to pay for it. 
A few months later, Mr S says he noticed that the Smart Watch didnt pick up any signal, 
when used at his home address. Mr S says Sky told him they were having problems with the 
signal near to where he lived, but the problems would soon be fixed. Around the same time, 
Mr S arranged to send the Smart Watch to its manufacturer, to see if it had a fault. 
After a few months without a signal at his home, Mr S complained to Sky. He said they gave 
him incorrect information about the signal, when he first enquired about the Smart Watch. 
So, he said Sky should allow him to exit the fixed sum loam agreement and refund the 
repayments he had made. Mr S also wanted a refund of some of the payments he had made 
towards the airtime contracts hed entered into, when he got the Smart Watch. 
Sky responded to Mr Ss complaint and said his concerns were about the signal, rather than 
the Smart Watch. And that they couldnt ever guarantee a signal. Sky also said the Smart 
Watch had been checked by its manufacturer and was fault free. However, Sky told Mr S he 
could end the airtime contracts in his name without early termination charges. They also 
offered Mr S £40 of credit, in light of the inconvenience he had suffered. 
Mr S didnt accept Skys offer and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Ss case and found that Sky had treated him unfairly. The investigator 
concluded that Sky gave Mr S incorrect information about the signal, which led him to enter 
into the fixed sum loan agreement. 
To put things right the investigator asked Sky to allow Mr S to exit the fixed sum loan 
agreement. He also asked them to refund all the repayments Mr S had made for the Smart 
Watch and to remove any details of the agreement from the records held with credit 
reference agencies. 
Mr S accepted those findings, but Sky didnt agree. They said Mr S had made some use of 
the Smart Watch. They also said the fixed sum loan agreement for the Smart Watch was 
provided regardless of the signal coverage Mr S had experienced. 
The investigator didnt change his conclusions, so Mr Ss case has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
I sent Mr S and Sky my provisional decision on this case, on 31 January 2023. I explained 
why I think Sky have treated Mr S fairly. A copy of my provisional findings is included below:
Firstly, I acknowledge the length of time both Mr S and Sky have been waiting for our 
findings to this complaint. Im aware of some challenging personal circumstances that Mr S 
has told us about, particularly the reasons why he sought a reliable provider of mobile 
telephone services in 2020. 
Im also very aware Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I think is at the heart of the matter here. Namely, did Sky treat Mr S fairly 
when he took out the fixed sum loan agreement? 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on those that are central to me reaching what I think is the 
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
The Consumer Credit Act 1974 
Mr S got the Smart Watch through a fixed sum loan agreement with Sky. The airtime 
contract was provided by a separate arm of Sky, who Ill call A. Section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 (CCA) has the effect of making A the agent of Sky during the antecedent 
negotiations. 
These negotiations were in the lead up to the signing of the loan agreement, starting from 
when Mr S first spoke to A. But essentially, this means Sky are responsible for the acts or 
omissions of A in relation to the sale of the Smart Watch to Mr S. In other words, Sky are 
responsible for the things A said, did, didnt say, or didnt do during the sales process. 
Mr S entered into two agreements here, one for the finance and the other a contract for the 
mobile services. Both contracts are effectively sold as one package. Although there is a 
credit agreement and then separate terms and conditions for the mobile services, I cant 
fairly treat each in isolation in this scenario. This is because I think the credit agreement is 
intrinsically linked to the mobile services contract. In fact the credit agreement sets out that it 
is a requirement for Mr S to also enter into a contract for the supply of mobile services. 
I can see that in some of the linked terms the rights of set off are excluded. Ive thought 
about what the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says about contract terms, and Im also 
aware that it is for a court to decide if a term is unfair. But, Im required to take into account 
relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Having taken these into consideration, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to 
exclude Mr Ss right to set off a claim under one contract against the other. I think we can 
consider Mr Ss claim that Sky gave him incorrect information about the signal coverage. In 
any case there is a regulated credit agreement, under which Mr S is being charged for the 
goods. So, I can consider whether Sky are acting fairly in asking Mr S to pay where there is 
a dispute about what was said before the sale. 
Before Mr S entered into the fixed sum loan agreement 
Within his complaint to Sky, Mr S says he wouldnt have entered into the fixed sum loan 
agreement for the Smart Watch, had he known that the signal coverage was poor. So, the crux of the complaint is that Sky gave him incorrect information, which he relied on to enter 
into the agreement for the Smart Watch. 
A misrepresentation is, in very broad terms, a statement of law or of fact, made by one party 
to a contract to the other, which is untrue and which induces the other party into the contract. 
Mr S has provided evidence to show what he looked at before he entered into the fixed sum 
loan agreement. He says a page on Skys website showed him that the signal coverage in 
his postal code area was good. Mr S has sent us a screen shot of the page from Skys 
website, taken in February 2021. 
I can see from the screen shot that Sky said the signal coverage in Mr Ss postal code area 
was good. But, I can also see the page from Skys website says: 
This map is a guide to mobile phone coverage. Its a prediction based on a computer 
programme and is not a guarantee of signal coverage in a particular location. 
I think it was prudent of Mr S to have looked at the signal coverage page, before he went 
ahead with the fixed sum loan agreement. But, I dont think the signal coverage page made 
any particular guarantee to Mr S about the signal he would get. I think the wording on the 
page from website says that the information is a guide and not something to rely on. I also 
think the wording on the website is in a prominent enough position, to draw the readers 
attention to it. 
Having thought carefully about what Mr S says about the screen shot hes provided, I dont 
think it means Sky gave him incorrect information, which induced him into entering into the 
fixed sum loan agreement. 
However, Mr S says Sky gave him incorrect information on a second occasion when he 
spoke to an advisor, before the agreement for the Smart Watch was taken out. Mr S has told 
us about a telephone call with Sky, where he says the advisor repeated the same 
information about the signal coverage, as Mr S had seen on the website. 
Sky have explained that they dont have a recording of the call with Mr S, before he took out 
the agreement. So, I cannot listen to what was said. I accept that its likely the call took 
place. However, I think the advisor would have looked at the same part of Skys website as 
Mr S had done previously. 
On balance, I think a conversation about the signal coverage and the functions of the Smart 
Watch did take place, before Mr S signed the fixed sum loan agreement. But, I dont think 
the signal coverage details were any different to what Mr S had found himself. So, I dont 
think Sky gave Mr S a guarantee that he would receive good signal coverage in his postal 
code area. 
Ive also thought about the reasons why Mr S says he found the deal with Sky favourable. 
Mr S has told us that it is unlikely hell find as favourable terms with a different provider. So, 
on balance, I think there were benefits other than just the signal coverage, that Mr S saw in 
the agreement with Sky. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Sky gave Mr S some incorrect information, which induced him 
into taking out the fixed sum loan agreement. It follows that I think its reasonable for Sky to 
expect Mr S to make the payments due under that agreement. 
Summary From what Ive seen, there doesnt seem to be a dispute about the satisfactory quality of the 
Smart Watch. Mr S says his daughter was able to use it in places away from their home. And 
I can see that Mr S made arrangements for the Smart Watch to be looked at by the 
manufacturer. So, Ive not considered the quality of the goods supplied under the fixed sum 
loan agreement further. 
While Ive been able to consider Mr Ss fixed sum loan agreement, this service doesnt have 
the power to consider the performance of the airtime agreement Mr S signed with Sky. This 
is because the airtime contract isnt a regulated financial agreement. 
I can see that Sky have previously offered Mr S £40 of airtime credit and said he can move 
to a different provider without any early termination charges applied to the airtime contract. 
So, Mr S does have an option to keep the Smart Watch and choose an alternative airtime 
provider. I accept though that this may come with a different tariff to what he has with Sky. 
In all the circumstances, I think Sky treated Mr S fairly when they asked him to make the 
repayments due under the fixed sum loan agreement. I also think theyve taken reasonable 
steps to allow Mr S to move to a different airtime provider, if he wishes to do so.
Mr S responded to the provisional decision and didnt accept it. In summary, he said:
He has experience of working in a regulated environment.
He chose the airtime deal and Smart Watch package with Sky, so he could make 
sure his daughter was safe.
Sky should have offered the Smart Watch without a plan, so he could have had the 
option to choose a more reliable airtime provider.
Sky didnt tell him the coverage map wasnt a guarantee of a good signal in the 
telephone call with the advisor.
The battery inside the Smart Watch quickly lost charge because it was constantly 
searching for a signal near his postal code area.
Sky caused him to miss the 31 day cooling off period to exit the contract.
Sky responded to the provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge where Mr S says hes employed by a company which involves working with 
regulated products. During my review of his complaint against Sky, Ive had regard to Skys 
responsibilities to Mr S under the CCA. In particular, Ive thought about the information given 
to Mr S before he entered the agreement with Sky and whether or not any misinformation 
induced Mr S into the contract for the Smart Watch. 
The main feature Mr S says he was interested in, was the feature to monitor the location of 
the Smart Watch, when worn by his daughter. Having considered everything, I think this 
feature was fault free. I think the issue that stopped the feature from being fully used, was 
the signal coverage in Mr Ss postal code area.So, I dont think Sky treated Mr S unfairly when they told him about the location monitoring 
feature on the Smart Watch.
Ive found that on balance, Sky didnt give Mr S incorrect information about the signal 
coverage before he entered into the agreement. I accept that we cannot know for certain 
what Sky told Mr S in the telephone conversation leading up to the sale. 
But, I have considered the coverage map Mr S says he looked at before he signed the 
agreement and what I think the advisor is likely to have had to hand. Overall, Im still not 
persuaded Sky gave Mr S a guarantee that hed receive a good signal coverage near his 
home.
Mr S says Sky prevented him from ending the contract inside a 31 day cooling off period. 
While I understand why Mr S says this, I think it was a positive step by Sky to want to 
examine the Smart Watch, to see if there was a fault. The manufacturer didnt find a fault, 
but did offer a reason as to why the battery lost charge, sooner than expected.
Having considered all the evidence, I dont think Sky denied Mr S the chance of ending the 
contract inside the period Mr S has referred to. I think their actions were a normal response 
to the question and concern put to them by Mr S.
While Ive thought carefully about the additional points raised by Mr S, I still think Sky have 
treated him fairly. So, I dont think Sky misrepresented the features of the Smart Watch, 
which then induced Mr S into the fixed sum loan agreement.
In all the circumstances, I still think Sky have treated Mr S fairly by holding him responsible 
for the repayments due under the loan agreement. I think Sky have also taken reasonable 
steps to help Mr S in allowing him to move to a different airtime provider without any 
additional charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint  in the sense that I dont require 
Sky UK Limited to take any further action to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman