DRN-4048862
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a personal loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr M with a loan for £1,000.00 in October 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 127.1% and a term of 18 months. The total amount to be repaid of £1,793.52, 
including interest, fees and charges of £793.52, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of just under £100. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ms complaint and 
thought it should be upheld. Everyday Loans didnt agree. So the case was passed to an 
ombudsman for review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
Everyday Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr M could afford to repay any credit it provided. Our website sets out what we 
typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. So wed expect a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a 
customer irresponsibly.
Given the relatively low monthly repayments due on this loan, I can understand why 
Everyday Loans may believe that a relatively light touch assessment of affordability was 
proportionate given the circumstances here.
However, Im concerned that Everyday Loans own income and expenditure calculation 
showed that this loan would take Mr M right to the margin of his disposal income. And 
Everyday Loans relied on the use of average data to calculate Mr Ms living expenses when 
arriving at its monthly disposable income figure. This is despite the fact that that the rest of 
the information gathered showed that Mr M didnt fit the profile of the average borrower. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr M has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ms financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ms version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ms existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr M. As Everyday 
Loans provided Mr M with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards him. 
Mr M ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on a loan he 
shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr M lost out because of what 
Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr M by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr M paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr M to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about this loan from Mr Ms 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman