DRN-2846384
The complaint
Mr M would like to make a complaint about Hub Financial Solutions Limited.
Mr M complains about the advice given to him by Hub Financial Solutions Limited (Hub) not 
to transfer out of his defined-benefit occupational pension scheme
What happened
Hub were appointed by Mr Ms employer to provide advice to members of its defined-benefit 
pension scheme. 
In October 2019, Mr M met with a representative of Hub, a Mr G, to discuss his options. 
During this meeting, Mr M and Mr G discussed the possibility of transferring his scheme and 
the potentially drawing on these benefits while continuing to job share with his current 
employer. 
Mr Ms objectives at the time of the meeting were to retire early and to job share from the 
age of 53 if possible. Mr Ms current pension had a protected retirement age of 50  so Mr M 
had the option to retire earlier than 55. 
However, Mr M was not able to continue working for his employer while drawing on his 
pension before the age of 55. This was explained to Mr M, who then altered his objectives to 
enjoying life and legacy planning  while leaving his pension invested to draw on from 55.
Mr G then completed a suitability report for Mr M which was sent to him. In this it was set out 
that Mr G felt that the advice for Mr M not to transfer out of his current plan was most 
suitable.
In brief, this was because Mr G had determined that Mr M could be in a worse position 
should his investment not perform well, in comparison to his current defined benefit scheme 
which was more secure.
Mr M wasnt happy with this advice, as he wanted to transfer out of his current scheme  so 
he took advice from a different advisor and transferred out of his current scheme in March 
2020. 
Mr M is unhappy as Hub had previously said that a transfer would be possible  but once 
Hub had completed the suitability report, he was unable to change its mind. Mr M believes 
that Hub should be responsible for the costs he has incurred by seeking advice from 
different advisors and having them enact the transfer for him. He says he wouldnt have paid 
as much had Hub agreed to facilitate the transfer  so he has lost out financially.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ms complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. The 
investigator concluded that Hub hadnt done anything wrong when it provided the advice.
Mr M disagreed with this, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr M s complaint  and I wont be asking Hub to take any 
action. I know that this will be disappointing for Mr M, so Ill explain why.
In order for me to decide that Hub had done anything wrong, I would have to conclude that 
the advice it gave Mr M not to transfer from his defined benefit scheme was unsuitable given 
his circumstances. 
The starting point is that it would not be suitable for a business to advise a client to transfer 
out of a defined-benefit scheme unless it can show that it is in a clients best interest to do 
so.
This is set out in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA, who regulates the financial services 
industry) COBS rulebook (COBS 19.1.6G):
A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can 
clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt 
out is in the retail clients best interest.
Additionally, COBS 9.2.1 says:
When making personal recommendation the firm must obtain necessary information 
regarding:
(a) Clients knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific 
type of designated investment or service;
(b) Financial situation; and
(c) Investment objectives;
So as to enable the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is 
suitable for the client and for a life policy, to propose a contract that is consistent with 
the clients insurance demands and needs.
So, Ive looked at the information provided by Hub which details what it recorded during the 
meeting with Mr M. This includes details of Mr M and his wifes personal circumstances and 
financial information, Mr Ms medical information, and details of dependants. Hub also 
assessed Mr Ms attitude to risk  scoring him 6.5/10 as a moderate-risk investor. It also 
determined his capacity for loss rating was 6.5/10. So, it seems that Hub did gather all 
necessary information it needed in order to provide advice to Mr M.
The critical yield (that is the annual return required in order to provide benefits that matched 
the defined benefit scheme) was relatively high, at 5.4%. Although its possible returns at this 
level could be achieved if Mr M invested in line with his attitude to risk, there would be little 
point in Mr M giving up the guarantees available to him through his defined benefit scheme 
only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. So, given the critical 
yield of 5.4%, I think it was unlikely that Mr M wouldve been better off financially by 
transferring out of his defined benefit scheme. And although Hub felt Mr M had a good 
capacity for loss in light of the savings he had, I think it is clear that this pension was Mr Ms 
main source of income in retirement. So, I think he couldve been adversely affected if his 
pension value decreased.So, for these reasons alone, and bearing in mind the regulators position that transferring out 
of a defined benefit scheme wont usually be suitable, I dont think the advice to remain in 
the scheme was unsuitable. But financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving 
transfer advice; there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, 
despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive considered these below.
I can see from the suitability report produced by Hub that it believed Mr M had other assets 
that he could use to supplement his income prior to retiring/if he took the job share and he 
could meet his income needs in retirement by remaining in the scheme. Mr M also had other 
funds he could pass on in the event of his death. So, there was nothing to show that he 
would potentially be better off making the transfer.
Because of this, I can see no other compelling reasons why a transfer would have been in 
Mr Ms best interest  Hub considered the best option for Mr M was to remain in his current 
DB scheme  and so this was the advice that it provided to him. 
I understand that Mr M was not happy with the advice he received from Hub  he wanted to 
transfer out of his defined benefit scheme. But as Hub doesnt facilitate against its advice for 
insistent clients, he had to go elsewhere. Hub is free to decide whether or not it facilitates 
transactions on an insistent client basis  so I dont think it was unreasonable that it told 
Mr M he would need to seek advice elsewhere.
Overall, I havent seen anything to suggest that Hub acted unfairly when it provided advice 
not to transfer out of the defined benefit scheme following its own guidelines. So I dont 
consider that it has treated Mr M unfairly here  and it doesnt have to compensate Mr M for 
the costs he has incurred by seeking further advice, which he was entitled to do.
Mr M, however, has raised a number of further points following our investigators view, which 
I will summarise below:
Hub only spent 20 minutes with him before providing its advice  so it didnt take 
enough time to provide proper advice;
His aim was to have a more flexible option for retirement, which Hub would not allow 
him to do;
Had Hub agreed to facilitate the transfer, the fees wouldve been lower than he is 
paying now;
Other members of the scheme were able to transfer, when he was not;
He has since become aware through colleagues that a particular pension provider 
was able to process the transfer without them taking advice.
Ive thought about what Mr M has said, but Im afraid that I dont think that the points he has 
raised make a difference.
Hub has confirmed that the advisor, Mr G, initially spent one hour and 20 minutes with Mr M 
 and that there were several other points of contact with Mr M after this time  so I cant 
agree that it didnt take the time to understand Mr Ms situation and provide appropriate 
advice. And while I understand that the advice provided to Mr M wasnt what he wanted; this 
doesnt mean that Hub was wrong in the advice it provided.
While Mr M wanted flexibility, Hub had to determine whether giving up the guaranteed 
benefits the scheme provided, to obtain that flexibility, was in his best interests. Im satisfied 
this advice was suitable for the reasons Ive already given.It may be the case that the fees charged by Hub may have been lower for Mr M had it 
agreed that the best course of action for Mr M would be to transfer out of his current 
scheme. But the advisor didnt recommend that he do so, and as it didnt facilitate for 
consumers wishing to go against its advice, Mr M would always have had to go elsewhere in 
order proceed in the way he wanted.
I understand that Mr M is unhappy that others were able to transfer out of the scheme  and 
he feels that it is unfair that he was given different advice. But I cant comment on what Hub 
may or may not have done when it provided advice to other members of the scheme  I can 
only look at the particulars of Mr Ms complaint. 
The law requires Mr M to take advice on the transfer of any safeguarded benefits (such as 
those provided by defined benefit occupational pension schemes) where the value of the 
benefits is £30,000 or more. So, Mr M needed to take advice if he wanted to transfer out of 
his employers defined benefit scheme. After receiving Hubs advice, Mr M was free to 
approach another adviser or a pension provider directly if he still wanted to proceed. While 
some pension providers may have been prepared to allow the transfer to proceed on the 
basis that Mr M had already taken advice, others may have required Mr M to have a financial 
adviser on board to provide advice and/or service the pension. In any event, I dont think 
Hub needed to do any more here.
It follows that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint  and I dont direct Hub Financial Solutions 
Limited to take any further action.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 June 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman