DRN-4172821
The complaint
Mr A complains Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) didnt issue yearly statements 
and didnt inform him of the end date of his life insurance policy until November 2022. 
What happened
This complaint is about a level term life insurance policy taken out with Scottish Widows in 
2003. The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator for these reasons: 
Mr A received advice from a separate firm which recommended taking out the life 
insurance policy. Ive reviewed the initial policy documents and I can see it stated the 
policy had a 20-year term. There isnt anything in the documents I have seen which 
would lead me to conclude this policy was intended to provide cover for the whole of 
Mr As life. 
I can see no annual statements were provided. But I dont think Scottish Widows 
were required to do so. This is because there was no investment element, and the 
cover remained the same throughout the term of the policy. 
I understand from Mr A that Scottish Widows sent a letter shortly before the end of 
the term to confirm the policy was due to end. I wouldnt have expected them to do 
anything further here and it gave Mr A some notice he would no longer have cover. 
I appreciate my decision will be considerably disappointing for Mr A and he is experiencing 
some difficult personal circumstances. I want to assure him I thought carefully about what 
hes said. However, in light of the evidence, I cant say Scottish Widows have done anything 
wrong in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2023.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman
