DRN-2841705
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Ms R. AXA didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale. So Ill 
refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2004 alongside a store credit account. Ms R 
was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Ms R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive considered what Ms R has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
The form, which Ms R signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make by 
signing in a box. Ms R has said it was made clear to her that she would not get the 
store card unless she took the PPI. However, especially as this took place about 17 
years ago, I cant be sure how well Ms R has remembered the details of what 
happened. And on balance, I dont have strong enough evidence to say AXA didnt 
give Ms R a fair choice.
It doesnt seem that AXA recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable for 
Ms Rs individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would have been for Ms R to decide whether it was suitable.
However, AXA did need to give Ms R clear and fair information, so she could make 
an informed choice. And I dont have clear evidence it did do this properly  at least 
the information on the form itself wasnt full enough, and I dont know what other 
information was given to Ms R, if any. So Ive thought about whether better 
information is likely to have made a difference. But in Ms Rs probable circumstances 
at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I dont think its 
likely to have made a difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was given a 
choice, which I accept she says didnt happen  Ive explained my thinking on that 
issue, above.) I say this because its fairly likely that the PPI could have paid out for 
longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been in addition to 
any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. It would mean she could keep in reserve 
for longer any alternative means she had for meeting her card payments and her 
other continuing living costs. Also it doesnt look like shed have been affected by any 
of the significant exclusions in the policy. So, overall, the PPI is likely still to have 
seemed potentially useful, and better information probably wouldnt have made a 
difference to whether or not Ms R took the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman