DRN-4243645
The complaint
Mr T complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
From the information provided, Mr Lender lent Mr T six loans over the course of about two 
and a half years. The loan details are as follows:
Loan 
number DateLoan 
amount (£) TermHighest 
repayment 
(£) End date
1 16/02/2020 200 6 months 86.13 21/08/2020
2 22/04/2021 300 6 months 110 12/05/2021
3 21/05/2021 200 3 months 96.35 07/07/2021
4 07/07/2021 1,500 12 months 361.25 24/12/2021
5 18/07/2022 500 6 months 179.90 26/07/2022
6 03/08/2022 1,500 6 months 694 11/08/2022
When Mr T complained to Mr Lender it didnt uphold his complaint. It said it carried out 
proportionate checks and those checks showed Mr T could afford the loans. Mr T referred 
his complaint to this service where it was looked at by one of our adjudicators. 
Our adjudicator thought Mr Lender should have carried out further checks before lending 
loans 4 and 6 and had it done so, she thought it was likely it would still have lent as further 
checks showed Mr T could afford the repayments of loans 4 and 6. Our adjudicator thought 
Mr Lenders checks for the other loans went far enough and those checks showed Mr T 
could afford his loan repayments. Our adjudicator didnt recommend that any part of Mr Ts 
complaint should be upheld.
Mr T disagreed, he said he couldnt afford the loans and hed deferred repayments and 
defaulted on his loans. He says Mr Lender continued to lend to him despite knowing this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income). 
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
This means Mr B should be able to meet his loan repayments without undue financial 
difficulties, on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without having to 
borrow further.
Ive kept all this in mind when considering Mr Ts complaint.
Before lending any of the loans, Mr Lender has provided details to show it asked Mr T about 
his income and living costs including credit commitment. Mr Lender also searched Mr Ts 
credit file through a credit reference agency.
Loan 1
For loan 1, Mr T declared his income as £2,316 and his living costs including credit 
commitments as £1,594. This left Mr T with sufficient disposable to meet the highest 
instalment payment of £86.13 and subsequent instalments. There was nothing from the 
results of Mr Lenders credit search for this loan that should have concerned it about Mr Ts 
ability to repay this loan over the term. I think the checks here were proportionate and those 
checks showed Mr T could repay this loan without detriment to his finances.
Loans 2 - 4
There was a gap of around eight months between Mr T repaying loan 1 and borrowing loan 
2. I think that gap was sufficient to reset the lending relationship between Mr T and 
Mr Lender.  Mr Lenders checks for this loan also show Mr T would be left with sufficient 
disposable income to repay the instalments on this loan. 
By the time of loan 2, Mr Ts income had increased to £4,068 and his declared living costs 
and credit commitments totalled £1,727, this left Mr T with sufficient disposable income to 
afford the repayment of this loan over its term. There was also nothing in the results of the 
credit search that was concerning.
The circumstances of the lending for loan 3 was similar to loan 2 in that Mr T was left with 
sufficient disposable income to repay this loan. Also, there was nothing from the results of 
the credit search that suggested Mr T was struggling financially.Overall, for loans 1  3, the circumstances of the lending, along with the loan repayments 
and the disposable income Mr T had, leads me to conclude that Mr Lenders checks went far 
enough, and those checks showed Mr T could afford the loans when they were lent.
For loan 4, I think given that loan amount was more than seven times the previous loan, 
Mr T had borrowed loan 4 on the same day he repaid loan 3 and from what I can see, Mr T 
deferred the repayments on loan 3 twice even though he still fully repaid the loan before his 
contractual due date, I dont think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to only rely on what Mr T 
told it. I think given the circumstances, Mr Lender should have verified the information Mr T 
provided. As it didnt do this, I dont think its checks went far enough.
Mr T has provided his bank statements from around the time of loan 4 and from what I can 
see his income was around £5,332.50. Ive considered Mr Ts living costs and credit 
commitments and his overall financial picture at this time shows hed have been left with 
sufficient disposable income to afford the highest repayment of £361.25 and the subsequent 
instalments. There was also nothing that suggests he was reliant on this form of credit.
Loans 5 and 6
There was a gap of around seven months between Mr T repaying loan 4 and borrowing loan 
5, I think it would be reasonable for the lending relationship to have been reset again due to 
this gap in lending. The loan was for £500 and the highest repayment (179.90) represented 
a small portion of Mr Ts declared income of £6,000. Mr T declared his living expenses 
including credit commitment as around £932, and so he was left with sufficient disposable 
income to repay the loan. 
Also, the results of the credit search didnt show Mr T was in financial difficulty. I think it was 
reasonable for Mr Lender to rely on the information Mr T provided when applying for this 
loan. That information along with the credit search results showed Mr T could afford the loan 
repayments.
Loan six was three times the amount borrowed for loan 5, I think given the loan amount and 
the fact that Mr T borrowed loan 6 only a few days after repaying loan 5, it wasnt reasonable 
for Mr Lender to wholly rely on what Mr T told it at the time of application. Id have expected 
it to verify some of the information Mr T provided.
Mr T has provided copies of his bank statements from around the time of this loan and from 
what I can see, his income was around £5,954, his expenses on the bank statement show 
he had sufficient disposable income to repay the highest loan amount of £694 and then meet 
subsequent loan repayments. While the result of Mr Lenders credit search showed Mr T had 
an outstanding short-term loan, there was no evidence that he was dependent on this type of 
lending.
In summary, Mr Lenders checks went far enough for loans 1  3 and loan 5. I think it should 
have taken its checks further before lending loans 4 and 6 and had it done that, I think it 
would have found Mr T could afford the repayments of those loans. I have also not seen any 
evidence that Mr T defaulted on any of his loans here.
Overall, Mr Lender didnt act unfairly by lending any of the loans to Mr T and so I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
I appreciate my findings will likely disappoint Mr T but I hope my explanation helps him 
understand why Ive reached this outcome.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint or make any award against PDL 
Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman