DRN-2421905
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE, declined a claim they made for
cancellation of a trip, under their single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G were due to travel abroad in November 2019. But they have explained that the 
day before they were due to fly to their destination, information came to light about some air 
attacks having occurred in the country they were flying to. This information detailed the
location of the attacks and noted an emergency situation had been called in parts of the
country.
Because of this information Mr and Mrs G felt it wasnt safe to continue with their trip. So,
they cancelled it. And because Mr and Mrs G were at a financial loss from cancelling the trip, 
they made a claim for this loss under their travel insurance policy.
Great Lakes considered the claim and declined it. Initially Great lakes referenced an
exclusion in the policy, which said it didnt cover loss caused as a result of situations such as
civil unrest, and it referred to a general exclusion referring to this in the policy.
In its final response letter, Great Lakes clarified the reason it was declining Mr and Mrs Gs
claim. It noted that the cancellation of Mr and Mrs Gs trip was only covered if the Foreign
and Commonwealth Office (FCO) had declared a compulsory quarantine that stopped
people from travelling. Or where the FCO had declared the destination unsafe to visit and
had advised against all but essential travel.
Great Lakes said that in this case, whilst there had been attacks in a region of the country 
Mr and Mrs G were travelling to, there wasnt any declaration from the FCO to say that travel 
to the destinations Mr and Mrs G were going to was unsafe, and that all but essential travel
should not occur to those places.
Great Lakes said the FCO only advised vigilance when travelling to the country 
Mr and Mrs G were taking the trip to. Except for in a couple of areas of the country, where 
the FCO said not to travel. But Great Lakes said these areas werent destinations 
Mr and Mrs G were going to during their trip. So, it maintained its decision to decline the 
claim.
Mr and Mrs G didnt think this was fair. They said an exclusion in their policy did reference
advice from the FCO. But they explained it also separately mentioned instances where the
destination was deemed unsafe to travel. Mr and Mrs G said they did deem the destination
unsafe to travel to. And therefore, the policy should cover them for their loss.
Because Mr and Mrs G remained unhappy, they referred their complaint to this service for
an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She said the
policy only covered cancellation in these circumstances if;
- The FCO had said it was unsafe to go the relevant destination, and it was explained
that none, but essential travel should go ahead.
- Or the FCO said there was a compulsory quarantine stopping Mr and Mrs G going to
the relevant country.
Our investigator also referenced that there were warlike activities occurring in the country,
and the policy didnt cover this.
Mr and Mrs G disagreed. They maintained their previous position  and reiterated that the
policy noted there either had to be advice from the FCO about travel, or, separately, it be
deemed unsafe to travel. So, whilst the FCO might not have advised against travelling, it
was unsafe to travel  and therefore the claim should have been accepted.
As Mr and Mrs G disagreed, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to Mr and Mrs G, and Great Lakes, setting out my thoughts on 
this complaint. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont intend on upholding this complaint. But I wanted to explain the
reasoning for this further. Ive explained my current thoughts below.
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Gs policy, to see what cover it provides to them. As is common
with travel insurance policies, Mr and Mrs Gs policy covers them for losses in certain
situations. If the loss that is claimed for doesnt fall within one of those specified situations,
then the claim isnt something that would be covered under the policy.
So, Ive needed to consider whether Mr and Mrs Gs loss falls under one of those specified
situations. And having carefully reviewed the policy, Im satisfied the loss Mr and Mrs G are
claiming for doesnt fall within those. And because of this, I think Great Lakes acted fairly in
declining Mr and Mrs Gs claim. And thats what I intend to decide.
Mr and Mrs Gs policy does provide cover for cancellation. But only covers this in certain
circumstances. Those circumstances are listed under the cancellation section of the policy.
They include situations such as a death of a relative, redundancy, the need to complete jury
service or because there was advice not to travel to the country by the FCO.
Looking at all the scenarios listed in this section as covered, Im satisfied the reason Mr and
Mrs G cancelled their trip doesnt fall into any of these. The only term in the cancellation
section which may have been relevant to Mr and Mrs Gs decision to cancel the trip in this
case, is as follows;
We will pay you up to the amount shown in the Policy limits and excesses table for the level
of cover you have selected, for your share of the cost of the trip as a result of:
()
The Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) declaring either of the following:
- Your compulsory quarantine preventing you from travelling
- Your destination is unsafe to visit and they advise against all but essential travel.This however is clear in noting that the FCO needs to have declared the destination unsafe
to go to. And advised against anything other than essential travel for cancellation for the loss
to be covered. So, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs G felt it was too unsafe to go their
destination  and I can understand this, it does have to be the FCO information that stops
them from travelling, rather than their own risk assessment.
Ive seen the FCO guidance from when Mr and Mrs G were due to travel. And the FCO
guidance does detail there were air attacks in a part of the country. It also advises against
travel to three specific areas of the country. But it doesnt say the destinations Mr and Mrs G
were travelling to were unsafe, or that all but essential travel wasnt advised to those
locations. So, Im satisfied that this isnt something the policy terms provide cover for. And
that Great Lakes has acted fairly, and in line with the terms and conditions when declining
the claim.
Mr and Mrs G have referenced another part of their policy. They have referenced a general
exclusion in the policy that says the following;
The policy does not cover you for any claim directly or indirectly resulting from any travel
undertaken to an area where the Foreign and Commonwealth office (FCO) advise again all
or all but essential travel or where it is deemed unsafe for you to travel.
Mr and Mrs G feel the above shows that they are covered for what happened to them. But
the above exclusion, or any other exclusion within the policy, isnt relevant here. As above,
for a claim to be covered, it needs fall into one of the events listed in the relevant section of
the policy first. It is only then that exclusions to cover need to be considered. And in this
case, the circumstances dont fall into one of those covered situations.
The above exclusion is noting that claims arent covered where travel has been undertaken
against FCO advise or where the area is deemed unsafe. So, where someone has gone to a
destination either against advice or where the area is unsafe to be in, and then suffered a
loss they wish to claim for. Mr and Mrs G didnt undertake the trip. And arent claiming for
losses that happened during that trip. So, Im satisfied this exclusion doesnt make a
difference to the outcome of this case in any event.
Both parties confirmed they had received my provisional decision and had nothing further to 
add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Neither party has raised any comments or further evidence following my provisional 
decision, that alters that decision, or what I consider to be fair and reasonable in this case. 
So, the reasons I dont uphold this complaint are the same as detailed in my provisional 
decision.                                
My final decisionGiven, the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. And therefore, I dont 
require Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman