DRN-4108953
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd handled a claim 
under his furniture warranty. 
Where I refer to Fortegra, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for 
which it takes responsibility. 
What happened
Mr H holds a furniture protection plan for his sofa, which is underwritten by Fortegra.
In October 2022, he made a claim for accidental damage after the buckle of a shoe 
caught on the fabric of one of the cushions, causing a thread pull. 
Fortegra sent out a technician, but they were unable to repair it. So Mr H was offered 
a replacement cushion cover or a cash settlement of £30. Mr H declined, requesting 
a replacement sofa instead  but Fortegra maintained its position.
Mr H opted for the replacement cushion cover. He was informed it would take 8 to 12 
weeks, which he was unhappy with, so he raised a complaint. He later informed 
Fortegra that 12 weeks had passed, and he hadnt received the replacement. He was 
told the delays were with the manufacturer, which was out of Fortegras control, and 
that it should be available by late January.
When the replacement was still not received in February 2023, Fortegra offered Mr H 
a product replacement voucher to the value of just over £1,000 plus delivery, or a 
cash settlement of £500.
Mr H accepted the voucher but remains unhappy with the handling of his claim. He 
says theres been unnecessary delays and hes continually had to chase Fortegra. 
This has caused him distress. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Fortegra had dealt 
with the claim in line with the policy terms and hadnt acted unfairly. 
As Mr H disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim settlement
The policy terms and conditions say:
What is covered
The cost of repair in the event of a sudden and unintentional incident resulting in a 
stain, rip, puncture, scuff, scratch, chip or burn, or recliner mechanism fault according 
to the coverage purchased.

If a repair cannot be achieved, we may replace the damaged part. If this is not 
possible, [claims handlers] may provide a replacement product(s), or settle the claim 
by a cash payment at [claims handlers] and your Insurers discretion instead of a 
repair or replacement (up to the limit of indemnity). Any cash settlement will be 
limited to the equivalent cost of repair or replacement by [claims handlers].
Mr Hs sofa cushion wasnt repairable, so Fortegra offered a replacement part (the cushion 
cover) in line with the cover provided under the policy. It also offered the cash equivalent of 
the replacement part. I think this offer was fair in the circumstances. I appreciate Mr H 
wanted a replacement sofa, but he wasnt entitled to this at that time. 
Fortegra has now offered a replacement product voucher up to the limit of indemnity, or a 
cash equivalent. This is on the basis that the replacement part has not been received from 
the manufacturers. I think this offer is fair, and I dont think it needed to have been offered 
sooner when Fortegra was of the understanding that a replacement part was available.  
Claims handling
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) requires Fortegra to handle claims promptly and fairly, and to not unreasonably 
reject a claim. 
I understand Mr H made his claim in early October 2022, and within a few days a technician 
had attended and Fortegra had made an offer of settlement. I appreciate there have been 
delays in obtaining the replacement part, but this delay has been with the manufacturers, 
and therefore outside of Fortegras control. As such, I cant fairly hold Fortegra responsible. 
Fortegra offered an alternative settlement under the policy in early February 2023, three 
months after the claim was made. I think it was reasonable to allow the manufacturers time 
to source the part. And whilst I appreciate Mr H is unhappy with the length of time he was left 
with a damaged sofa; the damage was minimal and didnt prevent him from using the 
furniture. So I think the impact to him has been minimal.
Im also mindful that the claim notes record the incident date as July 2022 when the 
accidental damage occurred. And Mr H didnt make his claim until October 2022. As such, I 
cant see that there was any urgency to the situation.
Mr H says hes had to continually chase Fortegra for updates on his claim. I appreciate this 
wouldve been frustrating, but I can see that Fortegra has contacted Mr H when there has 
been an update or development in his claim.
Overall, I dont think Mr H has suffered an impact which warrants a payment of 
compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman