DRN-2674170
The complaint
Mrs C complains that NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading as Fluid, were irresponsible to 
increase her credit card limit because she could not afford the additional credit. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint NewDay, but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Before agreeing to provide additional credit a business should check that the credit is 
affordable. The type of checks which a business should carry out should be proportionate, 
so (for instance) a mortgage lender will ask for bank statements and payslips, but a 
catalogue offering a low credit limit doesnt have to go into so much detail. 
In considering this complaint, Ive looked at whether NewDay carried out proportionate 
checks, and at what information they had been given about Mrs Cs financial circumstances.
The methods NewDay used to establish affordability were for them to decide but the 
practices and procedures they used had to be effective. And the depth of their analysis could 
be proportionate to the amount of money being requested.
were reasonable and proportionate checks completed at the application stage?
NewDay have explained that prior to approving Mrs Cs application for a credit card they 
reviewed Mrs Cs credit file and noted that the defaults were historic, none of her accounts 
were in arrears, there were no county court judgements registered against Mrs C and that 
she wasnt engaged in any payment or debt management plans.
I think NewDays checks at the application stage were proportionate and reasonable and I 
dont think theres sufficient evidence to suggest Mrs C could not afford the credit that was 
being supplied at that point.
did NewDay carry our reasonable and proportionate checks before providing the credit limit 
increases?
NewDay initially offered a credit limit of £600. They increased that to £1,350 seven months 
later, in March 2019, and in July 2019 the limit was increased to £2,350.
NewDay say they start new credit cards with low credit limits and increase the limits based 
on the consumers subsequent account performance.
I dont think their checks could fairly be seen to be reasonable or proportionate in those 
circumstances as they dont appear to have considered any increases in Mrs Cs outgoings 
or her income or have considered her account performance in sufficient detail.
if NewDay had completed reasonable and proportionate checks would they have been likely 
to have shown Mrs C was likely not to be able to sustainably repay the credit?
Being able to sustainably repay credit is described as doing so without undue difficulty, while 
being able to meet other commitments and without having to borrow further.
At the point of the March 2019 credit limit increase Mrs C was already using her full limit; 
shed gone over her limit twice in seven months and missed payments on three occasions. I 
dont think this account performance demonstrated she was able to sustainably repay the 
credit she was being supplied with. And I therefore dont think it was responsible for NewDay 
to have provided any more credit at that point.
When they increased her limit again only four months later they say they reviewed her 
account performance again. 
But whilst Mrs C was managing to meet her minimum payments her overall indebtedness 
was increasing by about £100 a month.
This doesnt suggest she was managing to repay the credit sustainably and I dont therefore 
think it was responsible for NewDay to subsequently increase her credit limit by almost 75%. 
So, overall, Im persuaded that the credit limit increases applied in March and July 2019 
were irresponsibly made.
 
Putting things right
Mrs C has had the benefit of the credit that was advanced so its fair for NewDay to expect 
her to pay that back.
However, shes been charged interest and late payment fees since the first credit limit 
increase in March 2019, which she wouldnt otherwise have had to pay. These should be 
removed so that a new starting balance consisting of only the amount lent is left and then 
any payments made should be deducted. If this results in Mrs C having paid too much, then 
any overpayments should be refunded adding 8% simple interest.
If money is still owed on the debt, then because Mrs C shouldnt have been provided
the credit limit increases, NewDay should come to an affordable arrangement with Mrs C to
repay the outstanding debt. 
NewDay should remove any adverse credit reports they have made to Mrs Cs credit file 
since the first credit limit increase in March 2019.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell NewDay Ltd to:
remove any late payment fees or interest charged since March 2019. Create a new 
starting balance so that only the amount lent is left and then any payments made 
should be deducted. If this results in Mrs C having paid too much, then any 
overpayments should be refunded adding 8% simple interest.
if money is still owed on the debt, then NewDay should come to an affordable 
arrangement with Mrs C to repay the outstanding debt. 
NewDay should remove any adverse credit reports they have made to Mrs Cs credit 
file since the first credit limit increase in March 2019.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman