DRN-3713468
The complaint
Mr L complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly declined to settle his claim. 
What happened
Mr L had home insurance with Aviva for a property he owns and rents out. In 2022 he made 
a claim after his tenants caused damage to the property. Aviva sent a loss adjuster to look at 
the damage however it declined cover. It said that as there were multiple areas of damage 
that were all caused by different incidents, then an excess of £1,000 would apply to each 
one. And as none of the individual claims were greater than this amount, then it wouldnt 
provide financial assistance. 
Mr L complained but his complaint wasnt upheld, so he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said Aviva had acted fairly as the damage claimed for wasnt linked to one event. So the 
excess would apply to each one and was greater than the repair cost for each.
Mr L didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has declined to offer financial assistance for Mr Ls claims as each one falls below the 
excess for the policy. 
An excess is the first part of a claim that isnt insured and therefore must be covered by the 
policyholder. Mr Ls policy defines an excess as:
The amount or amounts shown in Your policy or the Schedule which We deduct from each 
and every claim.
Mr L has claimed under the malicious damage by tenants section of the policy. And his 
policy schedule shows that the applicable excess for this cover is £1,000.
If the damage was all linked to one insured event, Id expect Aviva to treat the damage as 
one claim with just one excess deduction. 
Mr L has provided details and photos of the damage he claimed for at the property. I can see 
this ranged from replacing some doors, floor tiles and replacing the oven. However from 
looking at the damage and descriptions Mr L has provided no evidence that the different 
areas of damage are linked to one insured event. In fact the damage is very different and in 
a wide variety of areas of the property. So Ive seen nothing to suggest the damage was 
linked to one event. 
Because of this, I think Aviva has acted fairly by treating each area of damage as a separate 
claim. And as each one falls under the £1,000 excess, the policy doesnt provide any 
financial assistance, as the first £1,000 is Mr Ls responsibility to pay. I therefore think Aviva 
has acted fairly and reasonably and wont ask it to do anything differently. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman