DRN-4514661
The complaint
Miss D complains that Zopa Bank Limited irresponsibly gave her a credit card she couldnt 
afford to repay.
What happened
In July 2022, Miss D applied for a credit card with Zopa. She was given an initial credit limit 
of £600 for purchases and a further £1,000 for the sole purpose of balance transfers from 
existing credit cards.
In May 2023, Miss D complained to Zopa to say that it shouldnt have given her the credit. 
She said that she had taken out lots of other credit at the time and had it done appropriate 
checks before lending it would have seen she couldnt afford more borrowing.
Zopa didnt think it had acted unfairly. It said it had carried out adequate checks which didnt 
reveal any affordability concerns.
I sent Miss D and Zopa my provisional decision on 29 November 2023. I explained why 
I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Prior to lending to Miss D, Zopa needed to complete proportionate affordability 
checks to ensure she would be able to afford the borrowing without getting into 
financial difficulty. What is considered proportionate will vary with each lending 
decision. In deciding what checks would be reasonable and proportionate, Zopa 
needed to take into account several factors such as (but not limited to): the amount 
borrowed, the size of any regular repayments, the cost of credit and the consumers 
circumstances.
As part of the application Miss D declared that she earned an annual income of 
£35,000 and that she lived at home with her parents with housing costs of £250 per 
month. Zopa says that it used credit reference agency information to verify the 
income figure Miss D declared and these checks returned no concerns about the 
income figure.
Zopa also completed a credit check which showed that Miss D had some existing 
credit commitments. These were a hire purchase agreement with monthly 
repayments of £271, a loan with monthly repayments of £194 and that she held five 
revolving credit accounts (three credit cards and two mail order accounts). Her 
combined balances on those five revolving credit accounts was just under £4,000.
The checks revealed that Miss D did experience some repayment difficulty around 
two years earlier, but that there was no indication these had continued since. It also 
showed that in the six months prior to applying for the Zopa credit card she had 
successfully paid off and closed three credit cards and a loan. Of the existing open 
credit commitments, none of these had been opened in the last six months. This 
appeared to suggest that Miss Ds overall reliance on credit was reducing, rather 
than increasing.
Taking into account what Zopa could see, it appeared that monthly repayments 
towards Miss Ds existing credit commitments accounted for less than 30% of her 
monthly income. Given she also lived at home with her parents and had declared her 
contribution to the household costs were only £250 per month, a credit card limit of 
£600 (with an additional £1,000 for balance transfers) appeared to be affordable for 
her. She appeared to have a significant amount of disposable income available to her 
each month.
As there was nothing concerning on her credit file, such as signs of repayment 
difficulty or concerning increases in borrowing, I dont think there was any reason for 
Zopa to have carried out more thorough checks. For the same reasons, I dont think 
there was anything in the checks that it completed that ought to have caused it 
concerns about Miss Ds ability to afford the additional borrowing. Therefore, Im not 
persuaded it acted unfairly when it granted the credit to her.
Zopa accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. Miss D didnt 
respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further comments or evidence, Ive seen no reason to 
reach a different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. Im therefore 
satisfied that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably when it provided credit to Miss D. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman