DRN-4417141
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that Euroins AD didnt offer a refund of the premium theyd paid
for a travel insurance policy after Mrs B contacted it to declare a new medical condition.
What happened
In September 2022, Mr and Mrs B took out a single trip travel insurance policy for them and
their son to cover a two-week holiday starting July 2023 (the policy).
Towards the end of 2022, Mrs B was diagnosed with hypertension/high blood pressure. She
contacted Euroins to declare this as she wanted to ensure she was covered for anything
related to this medical condition whilst she was away.
Mrs B was told that Euroins was unable to amend the policy. And she could either go ahead
with the holiday knowing that she wouldnt be covered for any claim relating to
hypertension/high blood pressure or take out another travel insurance policy to cover this
condition. No refund would be given for the policy she and Mr B had bought although
Euroins did offer a 20% discount if Mr and Mrs B took out a new policy with it.
Mr and Mrs B didnt think this was fair so complained to Euroins. And when they didnt get a
substantive reply to their complaint, they referred their complaint to the Financial
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what happened and upheld Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. He
recommended Euroins to reimburse the premium Mr and Mrs B paid for the policy and pay
£100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Euroins didnt agree. So, this complaint was passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
decide.
I issued my provisional decision earlier in October 2023, explaining in a bit more detail why I 
intended to uphold this complaint. An extract of which is set out below.

Euroins has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly.
I intend to uphold this complaint for the reasons set out below.
The cancellation section of the policy says claims arising directly or indirectly from
pre-existing medical conditions arent covered. The emergency medical and
repatriation expenses and hospital benefit sections of the policy also exclude claims
arising directly or indirectly from any pre-existing medical conditions. Theres also a
general exclusion in the policy terms, excluding all pre-existing medical conditions.
Importantly in this case, Euroins has confirmed that whether Mrs B had hyper-
tension/blood pressure before she took out the policy or before she went on her trip,
the policy wouldnt cover any pre-existing medical conditions regardless of when they
occurred.
Im satisfied that means if Mr and Mrs B had to cancel their holiday because of illness
 so long as the illness didnt relate to a pre-existing medical condition in place at the
time the policy was taken out  they would have been covered (subject to the
remaining terms of the policy).
However, if Mr and Mrs B or their son developed a medical condition between taking
out the policy and going on holiday, and they needed medical attention for something
relating to that newly developed condition, this wouldnt have been covered under the
policy. And even if Mr and Mrs B contacted Euroins (as Mrs B did in this case) to
make it aware of a new medical condition/change in health after buying the policy,
there are no circumstances in which the medical condition could be added to the
policy as being covered.
Im satisfied thats a significant restriction and unusual in single trip travel insurance
policies. So, Im satisfied it should have clearly been brought to Mr and Mrs Bs
attention in the policy terms. Im not persuaded it was.
The policy terms confirm that the period of insurance for all sections of the policy
(except cancellation) commences when you leave hometo start your trip and ends
when you have returned to your home Cancellation cover for a Single Trip policy
starts when you purchase this insurance or when you book your trip, whichever is
later. But Im satisfied that the policy terms dont clearly set out that the policy
doesnt cover any pre-existing medical conditions, even if those conditions develop
after the policy was bought was before the holiday starts. Its also not made clear
that theres no option to pay an additional premium for new conditions which develop
after the policy was taken out. And the way in which pre-existing medical condition is
defined doesnt make this clear either.
Although the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) isnt part of the
insurance contract between Euroins and Mr and Mrs B, its purpose is to provide a
clear and accurate summary of the amin terms of the policy including what it does
and doesnt cover. Under the heading What is not insured? on page 1 of the IPID, it
says: pre-existing medical conditions which you have not declared fully to us and
accepted by us for cover in writing, for yourself and/or for your non-travelling
immediate relative and/or travelling companion. Im satisfied this gives the
impression (unfairly so) that pre-existing medical conditions may be covered if
declared (so long as accepted by Euroins in writing).
So, even if Mr and Mrs B had cross-referred to different sections of the policy terms,
the IPID and schedule of insurance which sets out the policy issue date and policy
start date, I dont think it was clearly highlighted (or easily understandable from the
policy documents) that the only way theyd ever be covered for emergency medical
treatment abroad, repatriation costs or the hospital benefit in connection with a
medical condition which developed between buying the policy and going on holiday,
would be to buy another, separate, travel insurance policy. I also dont think it was
clear that there was no option to pay an additional premium to obtain cover for any
new condition.
I think a reasonable consumer would expect an exclusion like this to be brought to
their attention in a more prominent and transparent way. Overall, I think the way the
documents were presented means the combined effect of the policy wasnt clear toMr and Mrs B.
I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would have bought the policy if theyd realised
the only way theyd be covered for emergency medical treatment abroad, repatriation
costs or the hospital benefit in connection with a medical condition which developed
between buying the policy and going on holiday, would be to buy a another new
travel insurance policy whilst retaining the policy theyd bought. I think its more likely
Mr and Mrs B would have selected a policy where they could attempt to pay an
additional premium for new conditions they developed before travel.
There was around ten months between Mr and Mrs B buying the policy and their
holiday starting. Its possible that they or their son wouldve developed a medical
condition in this time that theyd want cover for if travelling abroad. Further, when
considering whether to take out another travel insurance policy with Euroins to cover
the same trip but with cover for Mrs Bs hypertension, Mrs B says she ultimately
chose not to. Thats because if she, Mr B or their son developed another medical
condition between early 2023 and going on holiday, that condition wouldnt have
been covered under the policy after their trip had started and they may have needed
to buy a third policy. I accept what she says about that.
Although the policy terms say that theres no refund of the premium if the policy is
cancelled after the 14-day cooling off period, I think its fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this case for Euroins to refund the premium paid for the policy to Mr
and Mrs B as I dont think they would have bought the policy. Im persuaded there
were other travel insurance policies available for a similar price which wouldve
allowed Mr and Mrs B to declare a change in health after the policy started and
potentially cover medical conditions which developed after the policy was taken out,
either at no extra cost or for an increased premium. I think its most likely they
wouldve opted to buy a different policy.
Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs B went to the unnecessary inconvenience of having to
buy a new single trip travel insurance policy with a different insurer to cover their
holiday in July 2023. And they wouldve been upset and frustrated that Euroins didnt
provide a substantive response to their complaint, and they had to spend time
chasing for a response. All the while, they didnt know whether Euroins was going to
change its position or whether they needed to get insurance elsewhere before their
holiday.
.
I invited both parties to provide further information in response to my provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs B said they had nothing more to add. Euroins replied, disagreeing with my 
provisional decision. In summary it said:
the policy was purchased via a price comparison website without advice. 
even if Mr and Mrs B didnt have a pre-existing medical condition at the time of 
buying the policy, they opted for cover which didnt include cover for pre-existing 
medical conditions. So, when Mrs B met the criteria of having a pre-existing medical 
condition during the term of the policy, there was no provision within the policy to add 
a condition, because pre-existing medical conditions are excluded from cover. 
the exclusion of no cover for pre-existing medical conditions was clearly set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs B were offered an alternative policy, which would allow the declaration of 
pre-existing medical conditions because the insurer offered two different types of 
policy; one that had no cover for pre-existing medical conditions; and one that would 
allow (subject to acceptance) the declaration of pre-existing medical conditions to be 
declared. Had Mr and Mrs B accepted the alternative policy offered, they could have 
made a new declaration up to the intended departure date.
as theres no provision for a refund outside the cooling off period, to mitigate any 
customer detriment, Mr and Mrs B were initially offered a 20% discount on an 
appropriate alternative policy. And subsequently, they were a full refund, provided the 
appropriate cover was taken out with the same insurer. Mr and Mrs B declined both 
offers. 
the policy chosen by the customer had no provision to include cover for any pre-
exiting medical condition, regardless of whether this existed at the point of sale or 
became so during the term of the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the further points put forward by Euroins, they dont change my mind. 
Thats because:
for reasons clearly set out in my provisional decision, Im not persuaded it was clear 
from the IPID (setting out a summary of the main terms of the policy) and terms and 
conditions of the policy that Mr and Mrs B wouldnt be covered, if they went on 
holiday, and needed to make a claim in relation to any medical issues which arose 
after the policy was taken out and before they travelled. Thats a significant and 
unusual restriction, which Im satisfied shouldve been clearly set out in the policy 
terms. 
the contact notes Ive been provided with dont reflect Mr and Mrs B were specifically 
told by Euroins when declaring a change in health which developed after the policy 
was issued (but before the holiday began) that it could offer them a policy which 
covers any other health changes which occur between taking the new policy out and 
travelling abroad. So, I can understand why Mr and Mrs B were worried that they 
might be in a similar position if they bought another policy with Euroins. 
For these reasons and for reasons already set out in my provisional decision (an extract of 
which is set out above and forms part of my final decision), I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
Putting things right
I direct Euroins to:
- reimburse Mr and Mrs B for the premium they paid for the policy; and
- pay Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Euroins AD to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 28 November 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman