DRN-2818409
The complaint
Ms M says Hilltop Finance Limited (HF) is complicit  alongside other named firms  in 
wrongdoings related to her Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). She has complained 
about the other named firms, but this decision is only for her complaint about HF.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the case and said mainly as follows:
The matter stems from pension transfer advice in early 2017 from a firm called 
Huntsman Hawkes Wealth Management (HH) to Ms M, in which she was advised to 
move from her defined benefit pension to a SIPP provided by Intelligent Money (IM). 
She followed the advice, which included investment of the SIPP by a discretionary 
investment manager (Clear Capital Management LLP (CCM)) and an investment in 
Corporate Finance Bonds Ltd (CFB). Later in 2017 HH advised her to move the 
SIPP to a new provider, Ascentric, because IM no longer worked with discretionary 
managers who held corporate bonds in their portfolios.
In 2019 Ms M became aware that CCMs business had been restricted by the 
regulator in April, and in August she learnt that HH had entered administration and 
that her HH account had been acquired by HF.
Ms Ms main complaints to HF were that there had been deliberate non-disclosure of 
a material change of to her contract with HH, deliberate non-disclosure of former 
parties to her contract being unable to fulfil their contractual obligations and 
deliberate non-disclosure of relations between HH and HF. To resolve her 
complaints, she sought a return of all the ongoing fees paid to HF from August 2019, 
sanctions upon HF for its role in the non-disclosures and treatment of the matter by 
the regulator.
On 5 August 2019 HHs administrators wrote to Ms M about HH going into 
administration and about HF undertaking the ongoing servicing of her account on 
existing terms. Section 21.6 of those terms entitled HH to assign a servicing contract 
to another firm, with notice to the customer, so HFs undertaking of the account was 
not unreasonable.
Ms M is unhappy that HF excluded her CFB investment from its advice. HF says this 
was the case because the investment was illiquid, it had no access to information 
about it and it had agreed with the regulator that it would be unable to advise on it. 
HF has also said that at the time the account was transferred it was unaware of the 
specific investments by customers, so it could not address specifics of Ms Ms 
contract when it also wrote to her on 5 August 2019. However, it offered to assess 
her other investments and it agreed not to charge any fees associated with the CFB 
investment. Overall, HFs approach to the matter was reasonable.
Ms M is unhappy HF did not tell her that the regulator had placed restrictions on 
CCM in April 2019. However, it could not have done so given that the account was 
not transferred to it until August 2019, after the event, and after the transfer it 
ensured CCM did not charge Ms M any fees for the CFB investment. Overall, this too 
was a reasonable approach.
Ms M is unhappy that HF did not disclose previous connections with HH. HF was 
HHs appointed representative between 2016 and 2018, and between 2015 and 2017 
HH held 30% of HFs share capital. Neither has any bearing on Ms Ms complaint 
issues. HF undertook only the servicing rights to Ms Ms account, but advice provided 
by HH remained HHs responsibility and there is no evidence that HF was in any way 
connected to the advice provided by HH. 
Ms M is unhappy that HF could not transfer her illiquid funds away from the Ascentric 
platform. It is commonplace that illiquid investments cannot be transferred and that 
crystallised funds cannot be split. These relate to rules set by HMRC and set out in 
the Finance Act 2004.
Overall and for the above reasons, Ms Ms complaint should not be upheld.
Ms M disagreed with this outcome, she asked for an ombudsmans decision and she made 
detailed submissions in this respect. In the main, and with regards to the merits of her 
complaint, she said:
She has no complaint/claim, against HF, about the advice she received from HH, 
about her losses in the CFB investment or about fees charged by HH and CCM in 
her SIPP. Instead, her complaint is about the withholding of significant information by 
HF at/around the point of transfer of her account which has led to financial loss and 
to difficulties in managing her SIPP and difficulties in appointing a new firm to 
advise/service her SIPP. This conduct breaches the regulators Principles. The 
complaint is also about the undisclosed agreement between the regulator and HF.
It appears that the regulator, HF and perhaps HHs administrator all knew that, as an 
HH client, she was/would be unaware that around a third of her SIPP had been left 
completely unmanaged from April 2019. This prompts questions about why HF (or 
HHs administrator) remained silent and potentially misled her about the relationship 
between HF and HH, about the regulators restrictions upon HH and CCM, and about 
exclusion of the CFB investment from HFs service. It also prompts questioning of the 
contradiction between HFs claim that it disclosed to, and agreed with, the regulator 
the exclusion of the CFB investment from its service, and then its claim that it had no 
knowledge of the investment when it took over her account.
There is further contradiction in terms of how HFs acquisition of her account has 
been described. There have been many references to novation, but novation 
denotes the acquisition of benefits and liabilities and it is not clear that, or how, this 
applies to her case. Her account was either novated to HF or HF acquired only 
servicing rights to the account. If the former, which HF and the investigator have said 
was the case, then all HHs pre-transfer rights and obligations for the account must 
have passed to HF  but HF and the investigator state otherwise in terms of 
obligations.
It should be noted that she was advised to use a SIPP as a pension solution, it was 
not her idea; she was advised to use CCMs discretionary management service for 
the whole SIPP, that too was not her idea; investment decisions for the SIPP were made wholly by CCM; she had no direct contractual or contact based relationship 
with CCM, all dealings with CCM were carried out through her HH adviser; and after 
the events in 2019 she was left in the unreasonable position whereby instead of her 
entire SIPP either being self-managed or under professional advice/management, 
her SIPP was under partial advice from HF and the CFB investment was left outside 
its scope of advice.
Given the facts of her case and with regards to the regulators principles, important 
questions arise as to whether (or not) HF discharged its obligations to pay due regard 
to the information needs of its clients, to manage conflicts of interests and to arrange 
adequate protection for its clients assets.
HFs comments on Ms Ms submissions were that they did not raise any new points that had 
not previously been made; that at the time of acquiring servicing rights for the accounts of 
former HH clients it was aware of the CFB investment, hence why it notified the regulator of 
its approach towards the investment, but it was not until the clients Ascentric account details 
were thereafter disclosed that it knew which clients had invested in it (and by how much); 
that it arranged reviews of the clients portfolios; and that contrary to Ms Ms assertion that it 
did nothing to ensure fees were not charged for CCM it confirms that it instructed Ascentric 
to ensure that no fees were charged.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Ms submissions have been very competently presented and have been helpful to me in 
my consideration of her case. I acknowledge her clarification that the complaint is not about 
the advice she received from HH, is not about the fees charged by HH, is not about the fees 
charged by CCM and is not about her financial loss in the CFB investment. As such, I 
address none of these matters. Instead, I will address the key complaint issues as she has 
described them and as I summarised above.
Ms M says there is conflict within HFs position that, at the point of transfer (of servicing 
rights), it was unaware of her CFB investment, but it had also arranged with the regulator to 
exclude that investment from its service. I shared her view until I considered HFs 
explanation. I find HFs explanation to be both meaningful and plausible. It says it knew, at 
the point of transfer, that the investment existed in clients portfolios but, until it thereafter 
obtained details from Ascentric, it did not know which clients portfolios held the investment 
and by how much. On balance, I consider that this adequately resolves what previously 
appeared as a conflict in HFs position on this point and it shows that there is no conflict. 
There does not appear to be evidence that HFs explanation is unreliable.
Some aspects of Ms Ms comments/submissions appear to suggest the regulator was 
complicit in some of the wrongdoings she alleges. If this is a part of her complaint, it is a 
matter beyond this services remit. We are neither the regulator nor do we address 
complaints about the regulator. 
I note the transparency she seeks  and says should have existed at the time of transfer  
with regards to the details of HFs arrangements with the regulator about undertaking the 
servicing for the HH accounts. However, evidence shows that she was notified in August 
2019  by HHs administrator and by HF  about the transfer of servicing for her SIPP and 
about the terms of service (as she had agreed with HH) remaining unchanged, unless she opted to change them and to adopt HFs terms. It is not disputed, and evidence also shows, 
that the unchanged terms continued to apply and that HF offered to continue the same 
service and to review her investments in this context. Whilst I can understand her enquiry for 
the details of HFs arrangement with the regulator, I am not persuaded that the transfer was 
flawed without those details. In real terms, with notice of the transfer as it happened and with 
notice that service and terms of service would continue unchanged Ms M appears to have 
been sufficiently informed about the event.
Whether (or not) HF and HH had pre-transfer relations between each other does not appear 
to be relevant to the transfer of servicing that took place  or to the disclosure given to Ms M 
about that transfer. She confirms that her complaint against HF is not about HHs advice 
and, as I address below, there is no evidence that HF holds responsibility for HHs 
obligations to Ms M  be that jointly or through any direct or indirect relations between both 
firms.
The regulators restrictions upon CCM and HH happened before HFs service to Ms Ms 
SIPP began. The same appears to apply to the CFB investment turning illiquid. On balance, 
I am satisfied with evidence that following the undertaking of servicing for the SIPP HF 
intended to review her SIPP, as it intended to review the portfolios for other former HH 
accounts that it had undertaken to service. This was a reasonable approach and it adds to 
my earlier finding that the transfer was not flawed  given that such a review is what a firm 
would usually be expected to perform after taking over a new portfolio(s). Had that review 
happened  and it is not claimed that HF is at fault for the absence of that review (instead, it 
appears that Ms Ms complaint and her pursuit to transfer away from HF made the review 
redundant)  the absence of management for the SIPP and/or its investments would likely 
have been addressed.
With regards to the CFB investment, I am persuaded by merit in HFs argument that it was 
not prepared to advise on it because it was illiquid, it could not be transferred or liquidated 
and because there was insufficient information about its structure/components at the time. 
These are reasonable points, there does not appear to be evidence that calls them into 
question, and they suggest that no meaningful review of or advice on the investment could 
have been conducted at the time, even if HF attempted to do so.
Ms M is correct to challenge the references that have been made to novation and she is 
also correct in her assertion that a true novation would transfer both benefits and liabilities in 
a contract to a new entity. The word appears to have been used by others in this case in a 
somewhat misguided fashion, but I do not consider that this was intended to misrepresent 
the nature of the servicing transfer. Both HF and the investigator have been clear that only 
the servicing of the SIPP account was transferred between HH and HF  and that appears to 
be an accurate statement of fact.
Transfers of clients and their portfolios between firms, and initiated by firms, are not 
uncommon in the industry. In such transfers the rights and responsibilities in the original 
service contract need to be actively addressed. Associated and requisite legal (and 
contractual) considerations arise in this respect. Each party in a contract can potentially 
assign its rights in that contract to another party, however an assignment would not extend 
to the first partys responsibilities in the contract. In order to transfer the first partys rights 
and responsibilities in a contract to a new party, novation of that contract needs to take 
place. The same applies to the transfer of clients/clients portfolios between firms where the 
transfer is intended to cater for both rights and responsibilities.
Novation requires consent across the three relevant parties  that is, the transferor firm, the 
transferee firm and the client whose account/portfolio is being transferred. In other words, 
and in terms of past and continuing liability for a clients portfolio, the transferor has to wilfully agree to transfer liability for its clients portfolio to the transferee, the transferee has to wilfully 
agree to accept that liability and the client whose portfolio is being transferred has to wilfully 
agree that the formers liability towards his/her portfolio can be passed to the latter. 
Without this tripartite express consent, novation would not have been properly executed. No 
such tripartite express consent happened in Ms Ms case, so no novation exists in her case. 
It is clear she had no notice of the transfer until after it happened, so it follows that her 
express consent for the transfer (prior to the transfer) was neither sought nor obtained; and 
HF is clear that it undertook only the servicing rights for her former HH account, not HHs 
liabilities for that account. Ms M has confirmed that she is not holding HF responsible for 
HHs advice and/or fees, and I have already noted (above) that HF cannot reasonably be 
responsible for events prior to onset of its service  a finding that is supported by the lack of 
novation, as past liabilities were not part of the transfer it undertook.  
Ms M has requested sanctions upon HF. For the reasons given above I do not consider that 
HF has behaved unreasonably in this case, so no finding has been made against it. Even if 
that was not the case, it must be noted it is beyond this services remit and power to make 
punitive awards so such an award (or a sanction) could not be issued against HF in any 
case.
I understand the references Ms M has made to the regulators principles and where relevant 
to her complaint, as set out above, I do not find that HF behaved unreasonably in terms of 
compliance with the principles related to disclosure of information or responsibility for a 
clients assets. I also do not consider that any alleged conflict of interest has been 
established and has been shown to be relevant to the complaint. If Ms M considers that 
there are wider reasons why she considers HF to have breached the principles it is within 
her discretion to approach the regulator in that respect.
I completely understand Ms Ms position, and I empathise with her, on the unfortunate 
situation that she was left in with regards to her SIPP and the problematic CFB investment, 
but on balance and for the reasons given above I am not persuaded that HF was/is 
responsible for that.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman