DRN-3714140
The complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money he lost when he fell victim to
a cryptocurrency investment scam.
What happened
Mr P was contacted on Instagram by someone Ill refer to as B. B told him about a 
cryptocurrency investment opportunity. Mr P says that Bs profile had a large following and 
posts showing that she had helped other clients make good profits. Mr P was interested, so 
they exchanged contact details. Mr P says that Bs phone number came up as a being a 
business profile, which reassured him that she was a legitimate trader. 
B helped Mr P to open an account with a cryptocurrency exchange and then advised him on 
what to do. Mr P made an initial payment of £700 from his account held with another bank. 
Around a week later, B told Mr P that his investment had done well and that he needed to 
pay fees and taxes to release the profits. In total, Mr P sent over £5,000 from his account 
held with his other bank and made a payment of £1,500 from his Lloyds account. B kept 
asking Mr P for more money in order to release the profits, then stopped responding when 
he had no more money left.
Mr P realised hed been scammed and reported the situation to Lloyds, but it turned down 
his claim for a refund. Unhappy with the banks position, Mr P made a complaint. In its final 
response letter, Lloyds said that it was not responsible for refunding the loss. It said it wasnt 
fair to expect the bank to have identified this payment was being made as part of a scam as 
it wasnt out of character for Mr P to spend this sort of sum and there had been no outward 
signs of any financial pressure. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service. Our Investigator looked into the matter but 
concluded there was no basis on which he could fairly and reasonably ask Lloyds to refund 
the money that had been lost. 
He said the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM Code) that was set up to 
provide protection for customers that fall victim to APP scams did not apply because Mr P 
was making a payment to another account in his own name that he held and operated.
He looked into whether Lloyds should have done more to protect Mr P from financial harm
from fraud but felt the transaction he made would not have stood out as being unusual or 
suspicious.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint afresh, so it has now 
been referred to me. He explained that the other large payments hed made in the past were 
for specific things, such as his university fees. He said hed lost a lot of money overall and 
had worked two jobs to try and make up the loss. He told us the fraudsters had contacted 
him to explain how he might be able to get his money back. Our Investigator didnt believe 
the fraudsters would return Mr Ps money. He said Mr P should block them and not engage 
any further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in debate that Mr P has fallen victim to a particularly cruel scam. The fraudsters made 
a fake trading account and were able to manually control what Mr P saw, tricking him into 
believing that hed made a lot of money. From what Mr P has told us, he put everything that 
he had into this scam. But as part of this complaint, I am only able to consider whether 
Lloyds has any responsibility to refund the £1,500 that was transferred from Mr Ps Lloyds 
account.
I can only compel Lloyds to refund Mr P if it is responsible for the loss incurred. Having 
carefully considered the circumstances of this complaint, I can see no basis on which I can 
fairly say that Lloyds should be held liable for some or all of Mr Ps loss. I will explain why.
The starting position at law is that banks and building societies are expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that their customers authorise them to make. Mr P made the 
payment himself. He initiated the payment with the cryptocurrency exchange and agreed 
that a faster payment should be made from his Lloyds account via Open Banking. This 
means that it was an authorised payment, even though Mr P did not intend for this money to 
go to fraudsters.
But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider Lloyds
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism,
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years,
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that Lloyds should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character situations
which can indicate that a transaction could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
So Ive also considered whether Lloyds should have identified that Mr P was potentially
at risk of falling victim to fraud as a result of the payment, or otherwise done more to protect
him.
Lloyds did not identify the payment Mr P made as being out of character or suspicious at the 
time. When considering what payments should be considered significantly out of character, 
its often a finely balanced matter  and firms have a difficult balance to strike between 
identifying transactions where there are indications of higher fraud risks, and allowing 
customers to utilise their accounts as they want to with minimal unnecessary disruptions.
Ive looked carefully at Mr Ps account statements in the lead up to the scam to get aclear understanding of how the account typically ran. Having done so, I dont consider the
payment Mr P made would have stood out enough to the bank to be considered unusual or 
out of character for him. He did make larger payments from time to time. With the benefit of 
hindsight, we now know that the payment Mr P made was going to be lost to fraud. But when 
Mr P sent the money, this wouldnt have been obvious to Lloyds. The payment is 
unremarkable, and I dont think the bank missed a clear opportunity to identify a potential 
scam risk.
I dont consider it reasonable to expect Lloyds to ask questions about payments that arent 
unusual or out of character. This means that I do not need to go on to consider whether 
anything Lloyds could reasonably have been expected to do would have stopped Mr P from 
making the payment.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds ought to have refunded the loss for any other reason,
and in particular, whether Lloyds ought to have reimbursed Mr P under the provisions of the
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model Code, which Lloyds 
has signed up to and was in force at the time Mr P sent the money. But the CRM Code is 
quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all push payments. The CRM Code only covers scam
payments when the funds are being transferred to another person and not to a consumers 
own account. In this case, Mr P sent the money to his own account held with a
cryptocurrency exchange. This means I dont think Lloyds is responsible for reimbursing him 
because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Having carefully considered everything, there is not enough here for me to think Lloyds
should have suspected Mr P might be the victim of a potential scam at the time he made the
payment. As the funds went to Mr Ps own account with the cryptocurrency exchange and 
then on from there, there was little opportunity for Lloyds to recover those funds or find out 
more specific details about where they are now. 
I am sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr P and I can understand why he wants to do all 
he can to recover the money hes lost. But I would urge Mr P to ignore any further contact 
from the fraudsters. 
I know my outcome is going to come as a disappointment to Mr P. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, Im satisfied Mr P isnt due a refund under the CRM Code. Nor can I see there are 
any other grounds on which I could say that Lloyds should bear the responsibility for the 
loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman