DRN-2252446
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that UK Insurance Limited (UKI) decided to settle his car insurance claim on 
the basis of shared liability. He doesnt believe he was at fault for the incident. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. 
In August 2019 Mr S was unfortunately involved in an accident. His car collided with another 
vehicle in a car park. Mr S was insured with UKI and he informed them of the incident. UKI 
were provided with details of what had happened, including photographs of the damage and 
the scene of the accident. 
Ultimately UKI decided to settle the claim on a 50/50 shared liability basis. Mr S was 
unhappy as he felt the other driver was to blame. He says the other car was parked where it 
shouldnt have been, and he therefore doesnt think he was at fault. UKI explained the policy 
allows them to make this decision which they considered to be fair in the circumstances.
Mr S referred the matter to our service and one of our investigators didnt think it should be 
upheld. In summary he thought UKI had acted fairly. As he still disagrees, Mr S has asked 
for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for largely the same reasons, Ill explain 
why. 
Consumers are often unhappy when they are held responsible, liable, or jointly so, for an 
accident because they dont think they were at fault. Our role generally isnt to decide who 
was at fault but to consider whether the insurer handled the claim in a fair and reasonable 
manner. 
So, Ive looked at Mr Ss policy documents. Under the heading of Claims Procedure these 
say:
We are entitled to: Take over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any 
claim in your name
Im satisfied this means that UKI are entitled to agree liability in respect of Mr Ss claim as 
they see fit. UKI explained to Mr S that as both parties were reversing at the time of the 
accident, they were going to settle the claim with shared liability. Mr S says that the other 
driver was emerging from an illegal and unmarked parking space and shouldnt have been 
where he was. UKI considered this, but it didnt make a difference to their liability decision.
Im satisfied UKI considered what Mr S said along with the photographic evidence provided. 
Having done so they decided it was unlikely theyd be able to prove the other driver was 
entirely at fault and that shared liability would be the best outcome. UKI were entitled to 
follow the process they did, their actions were timely, and I think their decision was fair and 
reasonable. 
Taking all the circumstances into consideration, Im satisfied the policy allows UKI to make a 
decision as to liability of the claim, they dont need Mr Ss agreement or permission to do so. 
Im also satisfied their decision was fair in the circumstances, so Im not going to tell them 
they need to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman