DRN-1939567
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy with National Westminster Bank Plc for sharing his financial details with a 
third party. 
What happened
Last September, Mr B visited his NatWest branch to query a direct debit on his account. It 
appears that in the course of looking into this for him, a member of staff printed a transaction 
history of his account and put it to one side to follow up on.
The next day, this transaction history was accidentally given to another customer who also 
had some paperwork with them. Rather than destroy or return Mr Bs paperwork to NatWest, 
the third party got in touch with Mr B to let him know what had happened.
Mr B said hed had repeated phone calls to his workplace from the third party whod seen the 
name of the company paying his salary. Mr Bs colleagues felt the calls were strange, 
repeated and they queried whether it was a situation involving a debt collector or alike. He 
felt this was very embarrassing.
Mr B says the third party then visited his home twice  which made him worry about his 
familys safety. He says the third party threatened to sell his details online and take control of 
his bank account.
Understandably concerned, Mr B went into his local branch. A complaint was logged and 
NatWest offered to close his bank account and open a new one, to allay concerns around 
what the third party had threatened. Mr B decided not to do this. NatWest offered him £229 
compensation for what had happened  this included £200 for the distress caused, £20 for 
his time and £9 for fuel. 
Mr B wasnt happy with this and instead asked for compensation in the region of £3,000 
given what could have happened to his money. So he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened  she agreed NatWest had made 
an error but thought a compensation payment of £500 rather than £200 would better address 
the distress caused here. NatWest agreed to increase the offer to £529 but Mr B remained 
unhappy, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that NatWest has made an error here  it has acknowledged this in its 
final response letter to Mr B. Its not our role to decide if a business has breached data 
protection laws  this for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide. But there is 
no doubt that there has at least been a data protection issue here. What we can do, however, is consider whether its fair and reasonable to tell a business to 
pay compensation, or take any other action, to recognise the impact of whats happened in a 
situation like this. So my role here is to consider the impact of the problem on Mr B and 
decide how NatWest should put things right. 
There hasnt been any financial loss that Im aware of in this case, but from everything Ive 
seen its clear theres been a significant emotional impact on Mr B and his family. 
Unfortunately no amount of compensation can change the experience Mr B has had but I 
have thought carefully about how hes explained the impact of the disclosure. 
I see that Mr B arranged for his children to stay with a relative when he was concerned about 
the third partys visits to his home. And that hes had an uncomfortable situation with his 
employer wondering if hes being chased for debt when he wasnt. He also says the third 
party threatened to sell his details online and take his money. I can see why this has been a 
distressing and humiliating experience  not only has he felt harassed, vulnerable and 
exposed, hes also had the worry about the security of his money. 
These are all very serious and upsetting events. The third partys actions were, in part at 
least, attributable to NatWests error in sharing Mr Bs transaction details. So I do agree that 
NatWests actions have caused significant distress. But I also have to bear in mind that the 
third partys actions were their choice, and not the actions of NatWest. So while NatWest 
provided them with information it shouldnt have done, I dont think it could have foreseen 
that the subsequent actions the third party chose to take would have been as concerning as 
they were.
Although I know it will be a disappointment to Mr B, I do think the £500 proposed by our 
investigator is a significant and fair sum to recognise whats happened. Especially given that 
as soon as Mr B told NatWest about what had happened they offered to close his bank 
account and set up a new one  removing the ongoing worry of his money going missing. 
So taking everything into account, I agree with our investigators conclusions that the 
compensation should be increased, but I think the higher sum of £529 that NatWest have 
now agreed to pay is enough to recognise the significant trouble and upset this issue has 
caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should pay 
Mr B a total of £529 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman