DRN-2765706
The complaint
Ms B has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a fee-paying Premier 
packaged bank account in November 2007. Amongst other things she says that she was told 
that she needed to take out this account in order to get an overdraft and personal loan.
What happened
Our adjudicators assessed this complaint and they didnt think that Lloyds had mis-sold the 
Premier account. Ms B disagreed with this and therefore her complaint was referred for a 
final decision.
I also can see that Ms B had held two packaged bank accounts prior to the Premier account 
but my understanding is that Ms B is not complaining about these sales so I will only be 
addressing the sale of Premier account in this decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
Ive used this approach to help decide what to do about Ms Bs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened based on the evidence that I 
have been provided with. With this in mind and having considered everything that Ms B and 
Lloyds have said and provided, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why. Firstly I will 
consider whether Ms B was given a fair choice in taking out her account.
Ms B says she told that she had to upgrade her account in order to get a personal loan and 
increase her overdraft. However, if this were the case I would expect to see a change in her 
overdraft limit around this time or a personal loan being taken out at the time of the upgrade. 
I have looked at Lloyds records and I cant see either of these things happening at the time 
of the upgrade. Given this I am not persuaded that this was the reason that Ms B took out 
the account. I think that it is more likely that Ms B upgraded her account to take advantage of 
the benefits that it came with. I say this because the account came with an increased an 
interest free overdraft limit and home emergency cover which were not available on the 
Platinum account which Ms B held prior to the upgrade. I can see that she went on to use 
her overdraft frequently and she made a number of claims under the home emergency 
cover.
So overall, I think its likely that Ms B did agree to the upgrade of her account to a Premier 
account, and she did so knowing she had a choice although I understand that she may not 
recall this now, due to the fact it happened over 13 years ago.
This account was recommended to Ms B. Given this, Lloyds had to ensure that it was a 
broadly reasonable fit for her circumstances at the time. At the time, the Premier account 
cost £25 per month and provided a range of benefits including worldwide family travel 
insurance - that included winter sports cover; comprehensive breakdown cover; mobile 
phone insurance for up to two handsets; card protection; Identity theft protection; and home 
emergency cover. It also provided noninsurance benefits such as a £500 interest-free 
overdraft facility, with reduced interest rates on balances overdrawn by more than £500. I 
can see that Ms B registered mobile phones under the mobile phone insurance policy 
including two phones at the same time. She also made a number of claims on the home 
emergency cover and frequently used her overdraft facility. So I dont think that Lloyds 
recommendation was unreasonable overall.
Ms B has said that she held alternative cover elsewhere but I cant see why she could not 
have cancelled this cover if she wished to do so. 
I accept that Ms B may not have been told everything during the sale, about all of the 
benefits that the account came with. But I have not seen anything specific about Ms Bs 
circumstances, that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it, had she 
been given even more information about the benefits that the account came with.
Ms B has also explained that the benefits that the account came with changed over time. 
Specifically that the interest free overdraft amount decreased recently. The terms and 
conditions of the account give Lloyds the provision to alter the benefits that the account 
came with provided it gave notice of these changes. Ms B has not said that she was 
unaware of the changes. So given this I cant say that Lloyds did anything wrong in relation 
to this.
I appreciate that, with the benefit of hindsight, and perhaps with what Ms B mayve read 
recently about financial products being mis-sold, she may now believe that her Premier 
account was mis-sold. But based on what Ms B has said, alongside all of the available 
evidence that I have seen, I cant say that its more likely than not that her Premier account 
was mis-sold in the first instance.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman