DRN-4170519
The complaint
Miss M complains that she has suffered stress and anxiety as a result of her dealings with 
Scottish Widows Limited (Scottish Widows) in relation to her request to withdraw a tax-free 
lump sum.
What happened
In February 2023, Miss M contacted Scottish Widows by telephone to arrange for the 
withdrawal of 25% of her pension as tax-free cash and was told that she would receive a call 
back. Miss M said she didnt receive one and called once more on 16 February and was 
again told she would receive a call back which she didnt get. I understand Miss M was also 
told at some point that she should expect a consultation call on 17 February but this didnt 
take place. Miss M called Scottish Widows again on 21 February and made a complaint 
about the failure to receive any call backs and Miss M says she was told she would be 
telephoned about the complaint within 5 working days. Instead of a telephone call, Miss M 
received a text message with details of her complaint on 27 February. On the same day, 
Miss M received her consultation call to discuss taking the 25% tax-free cash at which point 
Miss M says she was told she could not take this until the complaint she had lodged had 
been resolved, which could take up to 8 weeks. During this call Miss M was also given a 
valuation of her pension which, as at 27 February 2023, was £49,740.99.
A few days later, Miss M called Scottish Widows again and spoke with a member of their 
complaints department. Miss M told Scottish Widows that she did not wish to proceed with 
her withdrawal since the value had fallen since her original enquiry on 13 February. The 
complaints handler advised Miss M that he would listen to the calls and make a new 
consultation appointment for 8 March 2023. 
Miss M said that, in the days leading up to 8 March, she made the decision to transfer all of 
her pension to another company. Miss M contacted Scottish Widows prior to her scheduled 
consultation call to advise them of this. At this point, Scottish Widows say they told Miss M 
that, in order to avoid any financial detriment, they would use the valuation of Miss Ms 
pension from either 17 February or 27 February to calculate her 25% tax-free lump sum, 
whichever was higher, provided she made a decision that day.
Miss M elected to proceed with the transfer and Scottish Widows say they received a 
request from the third party to whom Miss Ms pension was to be transferred on 10 March 
and the amount of £49,094.26 was transferred the same day. Miss M contacted Scottish 
Widows having seen that the amount transferred was £646.73 less than the pension 
valuation she was given on 27 February. Scottish Widows advised Miss M that they would 
look into this and sent their final response to Miss Ms complaint on 15 March in which they 
said that that they upheld her complaint and offered a payment of £150 for distress and 
inconvenience. Scottish Widows also told Miss M that they had used the valuation as at the 
transfer date of 10 March which was the date on which they received the transfer request 
from the third-party Miss M had elected to make the transfer to.
Miss M was unhappy with this and brought her complaint to us saying that her experience 
with Scottish Widows had caused her extreme stress and anxiety and that she had to wait 
over an hour on each occasion on which she contacted Scottish Widows by telephone. Miss 
M also said that the situation was made worse by the fact that she was registered disabled 
and suffered from both physical and metal ill health and that the tax-free cash she was 
seeking to withdraw was because of the increase in the cost of living which had caused her 
financial struggles. Miss M said that, whilst she was awaiting a call back, she was worried 
about the decline in the value of her pension pot and this increased anxiety affected her 
physical health.
In relation to the value of Miss Ms pension, Miss M said that Scottish Widows used the 
lower valuation for her transfer and has therefore suffered a shortfall of £646.73  being the 
difference between the valuation on 27 February 2023 and the amount actually transferred. 
Miss M asked for this amount to be paid to her in addition to the sum of £1000 for the mental 
and physical distress and the time she had lost.
Our Investigators view was that:
Scottish Widows should have called Miss M back as it had promised.
Miss M should have been able to take her tax-free cash without her complaint being 
resolved.
The service provided to Miss M wasnt to the standard one would expect and £150.00 
did not adequately represent the failed call backs and incorrect information on the 
complaint being resolved.
Scottish Widows should pay Miss M a further £150.00 for the poor service received.
It was Miss Ms decision to transfer away before receiving the outcome of the complaint 
and Scottish Widows did not have to pay the difference of £646.73.
In response to the view, Scottish Widows said that they thought there may have been some 
misunderstanding with taking the tax-free cash before the complaint was resolved. They said 
that Miss M was aware on the call that the tax-free cash could be taken whilst the complaint 
was continuing but said she would await the review of the complaint to see if it could be 
back-dated first. Scottish Widows said that Miss M was aware she could transfer out at any 
time.
Scottish Widows also said that £150 given the failed call backs was in line with our guidance 
for distress and inconvenience payments.
Miss M also disagreed with the view and said that she chose to move her pension after a 
very stressful time and that Scottish Widows should therefore pay the difference between the 
valuations of 27 February and 10 March 2023. Miss M also said that a further £150 for the 
effect on her mental health was not acceptable but that she would accept a further £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion as our Investigator and will be 
upholding Miss Ms complaint.There are two elements to this complaint. The first concerns the appropriate level of 
compensation for the service failures experienced by Miss M. Scottish Widows have 
acknowledged that the service provided fell short of what was expected and so there is no 
dispute over whether some compensation is payable. The second element relates to 
whether or not Scottish Widows should pay Miss M the amount of £646.73 being the 
difference between the valuation of 27 February 2023 and the amount actually transferred. I 
will seek to deal with each of these in turn.
On the issue of the amount of compensation, my view is that any reasonable person in Miss 
Ms position would likely suffer anxiety and stress with the failed call backs in relation to her 
pension. Added to this are the physical and ill health issues Miss M was facing and the fact 
that the value of her pension was declining during the period that Scottish Widows failed to 
contact her. Considering this, I think a total amount of £300 by way of compensation is fair. I 
understand the point made by Scottish Widows that the £150 originally paid for distress and 
inconvenience caused by a few failed call backs appears to be in line with our own guidance. 
However each case must be judged on its own merits and Miss Ms situation as regards her 
health and the importance of receiving these call backs, however few, indicate to me that 
£150 is not enough to reflect the impact the situation has had on her.
I would also make the point that Miss M says that the situation led her to make the decision 
to transfer her entire pension away from Scottish Widows and this was because she said 
she had lost faith in their ability to look after her money. This highlights to me the importance 
of those failed call backs and further supports why the £150 initially offered to Miss M is not 
sufficient.
I would like to add that I acknowledge Scottish Widows submission that there was a 
misunderstanding about whether Miss M could withdraw her tax-free lump sum before the 
complaint she had made was resolved. Indeed, Scottish Widows own notes on the call 
indicate that Miss M decided to wait until a decision on the complaint before proceeding with 
the withdrawal. However, irrespective of this, I think there are sufficient grounds for Scottish 
Widows to offer more than the £150 originally offered for the customer service failings 
detailed above.
As regards the matter of the £646.73 shortfall, I cant see that Scottish Widows should be 
liable for this. I would expect a pension provider to value a transfer as at the date on which it 
receives the transfer request from the third party to whom the transfer is to be made. 
Scottish Widows records reflect that this request was received on 10 March and this is the 
valuation date that has been used. Miss M has made the point that the value of the pension 
as at 27 February was higher than the transfer value used and, whilst she may consider this 
unfair, I consider Scottish Widows approach to the transfer to be reasonable. Scottish 
Widows could not have used any other date than the date on which the transfer request was 
received as this would be likely to unfairly prejudice either Miss M or Scottish Widows. My 
view therefore is that 10 March is the only correct date on which the transfer valuation 
should be made. 
I recognise that Scottish Widows did offer Miss M an earlier valuation date if she wanted to 
take her tax-free cash. But I dont see why it should honour that offer given Miss M 
considered her options and elected to take a very different decision with her pension, which 
was to stay invested and then transfer it elsewhere. With that in mind, its only fair that her 
pension was subject to investment fluctuations ahead of transfer.Putting things right
Scottish Widows has already paid Miss M £150.00 which it originally thought was enough for 
the distress and inconvenience Miss M experienced. Scottish Widows must now pay Miss M 
a further £150.00 to better reflect the distress and inconvenience she has suffered.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint. If it hasnt already done so, 
Scottish Widows Limited must now pay Miss M the amount of £150.00 in order to bring its 
total distress and inconvenience payment up to £300. It doesnt have to do anything else in 
order to settle this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Rana Chatterjee
Ombudsman