DRN-1790455
The complaint
Ms N complains about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds settlement of her 
pet insurance claim. My references to Red Sands include its agents.
What happened
In 2004 Ms N bought a pet insurance policy for her dog which gave lifetime cover if she 
renewed the policy each year, which she did. In 2019 sadly Ms N made the difficult decision 
to put her dog to sleep after he suffered a stroke. He was 15 years old.
Ms N claimed for the vet costs, cremation costs and death benefit under the policy. 
Red Sands said the policy was clear there was no death benefit cover for the death of a dog 
aged 8 and over due to illness. Red Sands also said cremation costs were excluded under 
the policy but it would look to cover the vet costs for euthanasia subject to reviewing the 
claim.
Ms N complained to us. She said the age limit for the death benefit wasnt clear when she 
bought the policy and shed paid out increasing premiums over the years to get less cover. 
Ms N wants Red Sands to pay the costs, compensation for her distress and the £1,000 
death benefit she thought was payable under the policy.
Our investigator said Red Sands had acted fairly. He explained why Ms Ns complaints 
about the sale of the policy and premium increases would need to be looked at separately.
Ms N disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She said the policy exclusion for the 
death of a pet from 8 years old was unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator correctly explained that Ms Ns concerns about the sale of the policy and 
premium increases are separate issues and I wont be looking at them as part of this 
decision.
In this decision I have to decide whether Red Sands settlement of the claim was fair and 
reasonable, and I think it was. Im sorry to disappoint Ms N but I dont uphold the complaint. 
Ill explain why.
An insurer can decide what it wants to cover and many pet policies have exclusions or 
limitations related to a pets age. But an insurer needs to make the terms clear. 
The policy provides death of a pet benefit cover to a maximum of £1,000 and details how the 
benefit value is calculated. Part of the benefit value is based on age. 
Im satisfied that the policy is clear theres no cover for the death of a pet due to illness when 
the pet is 8 years or older. The exclusion is in the keys facts which details significant or 
unusual exclusions of the policy and its not hidden away in the policy documents.
Red Sands given evidence that it sent Ms N policy documents including key facts 
information clearly showing the relevant exclusion when the policy renewed in 2011 and 
subsequent policy renewals. Red Sands told us that it sent earlier policies containing the  
information to Ms N but it doesnt have those records before 2011. Even without the pre-
2011 records Im satisfied that Ms N was sent clear information about the policy exclusion 
including before her dog reached 8 years old.
After her dog reached 8 years old the policy terms gave cover of 25% of the maximum death 
benefit if death was due to injury only. But Ms Ns dog was put to sleep because of a severe 
illness. Overall Im satisfied that Red Sands fairly and reasonably applied the exclusion and 
said there was no death benefit cover in the circumstances.
The policy excludes cover for cremation costs irrespective of a pets age so Red Sands  
fairly declined to pay those costs. 
The policy does cover vet costs for putting a pet to sleep if Ms Ns vet gives written 
confirmation that it was essential to prevent her dog from suffering. Red Sands told Ms N it 
would look to pay those vet costs subject to review so she should should contact Red Sands 
about that. If Ms N and Red Sands cant agree about payment of those costs she can make 
a separate complaint.
Ms N has my sympathy as she was very upset about her dog passing away and then 
shocked when Red Sands told her it wouldnt pay for what she thought the policy covered. 
But for the reasons Ive given above Red Sands acted fairly and reasonably.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman