DRN-3700417
The complaint
Miss C has complained that St Andrews Insurance Plc (St Andrews) unfairly declined a 
claim for storm damage under a home insurance policy.
What happened
Miss C owned a property she rented out to tenants. The propertys dormer roof came off 
during a storm. Miss C contacted St Andrews to make a claim. St Andrews sent a 
contractor who assessed the roof and told Miss C the claim would be covered. However, 
following a review after the visit, St Andrews declined the claim because it said the damage 
was the result of poor workmanship.
When Miss C complained, St Andrews maintained its decision to decline the claim but 
offered £250 compensation. It said Miss C shouldnt have been told the claim had been 
accepted.
So, Miss C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
it was reasonable for St Andrews to decline the claim because of poor workmanship.
As Miss C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 1 August 2022. In my provisional decision, I explained 
the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, I checked weather reports around the time of the damage. This 
showed a maximum windspeed of 83mph in the area the property was located, which I note 
is regarded as hurricane force winds. So, I think the answer to the first question is yes.
So, Ive thought about the second question. Hurricane force winds can cause devastation, 
which I think includes damaging a roof and potentially causing it to detach. So, I think the 
answer to this question is also yes.
So, Ive also thought about the third question. Ive read the survey findings. These said:
Inspection identified a flat dormer roof to the second floor of the property and on inspection 
it is evident that the felt roof covering, decking and insulation has
come away from the roof with the debris visible to the insured garden area. on viewing it is 
evident that the insulation has been laid over the original decking boards and then boarded 
above finishing with felt covering. We have concerns in covering this claim on your behalf 
due to the construction as we are unable to confirm if the dislodged area of the roof had 
been installed correctly and fixed into the original roof whose decking boards show long term 
deterioration issues.
I think this report, including the photos, showed some evidence of poor workmanship, 
particularly to the decking boards. However, I dont think the existence of poor workmanship 
in itself showed that it contributed to or caused the damage. The contractor also said: we 
are unable to confirm if the dislodged area of the roof had been installed correctly and fixed 
into the original roof. So, my reading of this is that the contractor didnt know one way or the 
other whether the roof had been correctly secured. 
The overall conclusion of the contractor was Considering all the evidence available on 
survey it is our considered opinion that due to concerns we have referred this claim back to 
yourselves (meaning St Andrews). So, the contractor didnt say what he thought was the 
most likely cause. Instead, he referred it back to St Andrews. St Andrews then declined the 
claim because it said the contractor found the damage to not be consistent with a storm, but 
instead found poor workmanship. But I havent seen anything that showed the contractor 
didnt think the damage was consistent with a storm, just that there was poor workmanship.
When an insurer applies an exclusion, it needs to show why its fair to apply it. In this 
instance, I dont think St Andrews has shown that. I havent currently seen evidence that 
shows the roof wasnt properly secured. Although the decking board does look as though it 
has deteriorated, I havent seen anything that shows how that contributed to the roof 
damage, if it did at all. Even if poor workmanship did contribute to the damage, it still hasnt 
been shown that the storm, which was hurricane force winds, wasnt the main cause of the 
damage. So, I dont currently think St Andrews can fairly apply the exclusion in order to 
decline the claim. 
Im also aware St Andrews has told this service that it could also have declined the claim on 
the basis of wear and tear. However, I havent currently seen any evidence that the 
contractor found that wear and tear contributed to or caused the damage. So, Im not 
currently persuaded that it would be reasonable for St Andrews to decline the claim on this 
basis either. That doesnt mean that St Andrews couldnt take into account any wear and 
tear for any settlement it might make though.
Looking at all the evidence available to me, I currently think there was a hurricane force 
storm and that this damaged the roof. I havent currently seen anything that persuades me 
that poor workmanship was the main cause of the damage or that it was reasonable to 
decline the claim on this basis. Im also not currently persuaded that wear and tear was the 
cause of the damage. As a result, I currently intend to say that St Andrews should 
reconsider the claim without applying the exclusion for poor workmanship or wear and tear. 
Having done so, if St Andrews makes a cash settlement for the claim, I currently intend to 
say it should pay interest on that amount from the date on which the claim was first made 
because Miss C has lost use of that money.
Ive also thought about compensation. Im aware St Andrews already paid Miss C £250 
compensation because she shouldnt have been told the outcome of the survey during the 
visit. I think that was a fair way for St Andrews to respond to what happened. I dont 
currently intend to say that St Andrews should pay any further compensation, as I think the 
amount it has already paid is in line with what I would have required it to pay.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 29 August 2022.Miss C replied and, in summary, said:
It was her understanding that I intended to uphold the complaint and that St Andrews 
should pay out with any interest on the claim. 
Other properties in the same street had also been damaged. 
How she had found the person who had fitted the flat roof.
There had been three red alerts for storms in the UK, including in another city.
RSA responded and asked for the details that showed the 83mph winds. It also provided 
comments from a surveyor which I have summarised:
The surveyor briefly described the construction of the roof and when it was installed. 
They described the roof replacement work as unorthodox and said it wasnt in 
accordance with good building practice. They considered laying a new flat roof system 
on top of the original failed system as a clear example of defective work.
The surveyor said the roof membrane and decking showed signs of advanced long-term 
deterioration and decay and should have been removed in 2017.
The fixing details relied on the good structural integrity of the existing decking to hold the 
fixing methods in place. The performance of the fixings would have been compromised 
from the start.
They described how the insulation had been laid to create a cold flat felt roof system, 
which meant condensation would build up, resulting in further gradual decay and 
deterioration to the original decking. They referred to the building regulation 
requirements, which included that it was necessary to provide appropriate ventilation 
from below to prevent the roof decking becoming wet and rotting. Because the original 
flat roof system was still in place, it wasnt possible to introduce the required ventilation.
The wind speeds werent the cause of the roof failing. Flat roofs have a high level of 
resistance to the effects of wind forces. Genuine storm damage was also normally 
evidenced at corners and long edges. This wasnt the case here.
The cause of the roof failure was twofold. The new flat roof was laid on top of an already 
failed and deteriorated flat roof and the insultation added below the decking without 
adequate ventilation, which had caused condensation and further rot and deterioration.
The wind speeds had merely highlighted the level of the roofs deterioration and 
weakness caused by the defects, rather than causing it.
RSA was provided with evidence of the windspeeds and invited to comment further. It didnt 
reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that I have considered the comments from both parties. 
These dont change how I think this complaint should be resolved.
In my view, the main issue highlighted with the construction of the roof is whether the 
existing surface was capable of properly supporting the replacement roof. The original report 
said the surveyor was unable to confirm if the dislodged area of the roof had been installed 
correctly and fixed into the original roof whose decking boards show long term deterioration 
issues. So, the original surveyor seemed unable to find evidence one way or the other of 
how the roof had been fixed into the original roofing. The surveyor also didnt highlight any areas of the roof that suggested it had detached due to fixture failings that could be 
attributed to poor workmanship. 
Im aware that more recent comments from another surveyor said that the construction of the 
replacement roof, and poor ventilation, would have been defective work. But, this still didnt 
show where the fixings had failed due to poor workmanship. I also still havent seen 
evidence that the roof wasnt properly secured. This doesnt mean that poor workmanship 
didnt contribute in any way to the damage, but I remain unpersuaded that the existence of 
poor workmanship meant it was therefore the main cause of the damage.
The more recent comments from a surveyor also said a storm would normally cause 
damage to the edges and corners of a flat roof. Ive looked again at the photos. These seem 
to have been taken from one end of the roof and show a limited part of some of the edges 
and dont show the corners of the roof. So, I dont think its fair to say there is no evidence of 
damage to the edges and corners given only very limited photos were taken of those parts of 
the roof.
Hurricane force winds can cause extensive damage and, from what Ive seen, there were 
significant windspeeds, up to 83mph, around the time of the damage. Based on everything 
Ive seen, I remain of the view that there wasnt sufficient evidence to show that poor 
workmanship or wear and tear were the main cause of the damage or that it was fair to apply 
these exclusions. 
Putting things right
I require St Andrews to reconsider the claim without applying exclusions for poor 
workmanship or wear and tear. If a cash settlement is paid for the claim, St Andrews should 
pay interest on that amount from the date on which the claim was first made because Miss C 
lost use of that money.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint. I require St Andrews Insurance Plc to:
Reconsider the claim for storm damage in line with the remaining terms and conditions of 
the policy, without applying the exclusion for poor workmanship or wear and tear.
If a cash settlement is paid to settle the claim, pay 8% simple interest on that amount 
from the date on which the claim was first made to the date on which the payment is 
made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman