DRN-3949620
The complaint
Mr L is complaining that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus Bank 
(Cashplus Bank) declined his application to open an account.
What happened
On 28 June 2022 Mr L applied for an account with Cashplus Bank. After he applied, the 
website showed a message saying that they were waiting for further documentation to 
process the application.
On 29 June 2022 Mr L spoke to Cashplus Bank. He was told his application had been 
declined because it didnt fit Cashplus Banks criteria, and that there was no need to supply 
any more information. 
Mr L complained to Cashplus Bank. He felt that they hadnt given him enough information 
about why his application had been declined, or why the website said that they were waiting 
for documents to complete his application.
Cashplus Bank sent Mr L their final response letter, which again said that their decision to 
decline his application was a business decision based on their criteria.
Mr L remained unhappy with Cashplus Banks response so he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ls complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Cashplus 
Bank needed to give Mr L any more information about why they declined his application. Mr 
L disagreed, so his complaints been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Generally, businesses can use their own commercial judgement in deciding whether to offer 
account facilities  as long as they act fairly and reasonably. 
Its for Cashplus Bank to decide the criteria they use to assess whether they will offer 
banking services to a customer or potential customer. They dont need to share this with 
customers. Theyve explained that they assessed Mr Ls application in line with their own 
criteria and with the information they received when they carried out external checks, before 
deciding to decline it.
Ive reviewed the information Cashplus Bank have given us about how they made the 
decision not to offer an account to Mr L, and I dont think they were unfair or unreasonable in 
making that decision. And they dont need to give Mr L any more information about their 
decision.
Cashplus Bank have said the message on their website saying they were waiting for 
documentation to process Mr Ls application was a mistake  because at that time the 
application had already been declined. But Mr L was told over the phone his application had 
been declined the day after he made it, and he was also told he didnt need to provide any 
more documents. So while the message on the website was wrong, I dont agree this has 
caused Mr L inconvenience which would lead me to ask Cashplus Bank to pay him any 
compensation.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, but I dont think Cashplus Bank need to do anything else here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2023.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman