DRN-1943944
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) 
Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
 
What happened
In January 2020 Mr M was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with VWFS.
When Mr M collected the car, he noticed damage to the alloy wheels, a dent in one of the 
doors and scratches on the bonnet. He raised concerns with the supplying dealer who 
agreed to carry out repairs.
On returning to collect the car, Mr M found that some of the repairs hadnt been carried out. 
In addition, he discovered further damage which impacted his use of the car.
Mr M complained to the dealership and it was agreed that he would return the car to be 
examined. Whilst the garage had the car in for repairs Mr M said he wanted to reject it.
The dealership said it wouldnt accept rejection because the car wasnt in a condition it could 
sell it on in due to damage to one of the wheels. No further repairs were carried out.
Mr M complained to VWFS. In response, VWFS said it wasnt able to accept a rejection for 
cosmetic reasons. If offered Mr M compensation of £50 to reflect the fact that hr repairs 
hadnt been carried out.
Mr M wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service He wants to reject the 
car.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said it was reasonable for Mr M to expect the car 
not to have considerable cosmetic damage or damage that would affect his ability to drive it. 
She also said that the dealership hadnt carried out the repairs it had said it would. She 
recommended that Mr M be allowed to reject the car.
VWFS didnt agree. It contacted the dealership, who said the issues with the car were 
cosmetic only, and that the cars condition at the point of supply was commensurate with its 
age and mileage. It said it hadnt been notified of any mechanical issues affecting Mr Ms 
ability to use the car and said it had carried out alloy wheel refurbishment work as agreed 
with Mr M, which it was satisfied had been carried out to an acceptable standard.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because VWFS supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theses an implied term 
that it is of satisfactory quality. Cars are of a satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that 
a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances 
such as, amongst other things, the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The law 
provides some guidance on satisfactory quality which includes freedom from minor defects, 
appearance and finish, safety and durability.
I would expect a second-hand car  such as that supplied to Mr M  to have a degree of 
wear and tear as compared to a brand-new car. So, in considering whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality, Ive considered whether the condition of the car at the point of supply 
was of a standard which might reasonably be expected, taking into account the age of the 
car (2 years old) and the price paid (£15,000)
Ive considered all the available information about the damage to the car. I can see that Mr M 
first raised concerns at the point of supply and that the dealership agreed to carry out repairs 
to the door and the bonnet. Mr M has said that three of the alloy wheels were damaged but 
that the dealership only carried out repairs to two. He says that when he collected the car the 
door hadnt been painted properly and the wheels hadnt been refurbished to an acceptable 
standard. He also discovered that the car had started vibrating, which made him feel that it 
was unsafe to drive.
Mr M has also said that when he asked to reject the car, the dealership refused because 
there was damage to one of the alloy wheels. Mr M says the damage was there at the point 
of supply and that was the wheel which the dealership didnt refurbish. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was damage to the car at the point of 
supply. I dont think its reasonable to expect a relatively new car to be supplied with dents 
and scratches and damage to three of the four wheels. Im of the view that the dealerships 
actions in agreeing to carry out repairs so soon after the point of supply suggests that they 
were aware that the damage was unacceptable. It also appears to me that the dealerships 
first attempt at repairs wasnt successful because it accepted the car back for further repairs 
soon afterwards.
The dealership has said it wasnt made aware of any mechanical issues and that the 
damage was cosmetic only. There isnt enough information for me to be certain that the 
vibration issue was identified to the dealership but Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ms testimony 
on this point. I can see that Mr M hasnt driven the car very much and this is consistent with 
what he says about feeling that the car is unsafe to drive because of the vibration which 
appeared after the car was returned to the dealership for an attempt at repair. On balance, 
Im persuaded that there was a vibration issue with the car which shouldve been repaired. 
Im also persuaded that there were issues with cars appearance and finish which went 
beyond what a reasonable person might expect from a car of this age and mileage and cost. 
Mr M asked to reject the car within the first 30 days, and I think he shouldve been allowed 
to.
Putting things right
I can see that Mr M has had to pay storage costs for the car because he felt it was unsafe to 
drive and wanted to reject it. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr M to arrange secure 
storage until his complaint was resolved. And because, as Ive said, Mr M should have been 
allowed to reject the car when he first asked to do so, I think all the storage costs should be 
met by VWFS.I can also see that Mr M has had very little use of the car. I dont think its fair that he is 
expected to pay for a car which he hasnt been able to use. So, I think any monthly 
payments hes made should be refunded.
I dont doubt that this experience has caused distress and inconvenience to Mr M. Hes had 
to incur the costs of storage and hes had to purchase a replacement car to use. VWFS 
should pay further compensation for the trouble and upset caused to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mr M
Refund any deposit paid by Mr M together with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Refund all monthly payments made by Mr M together with 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment to the date of settlement
Reimburse Mr M for the costs of storage (upon production of a receipted invoice)
Remove the agreement from Mr Ms credit file
Pay compensation of £250
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman