DRN-2215108
The complaint
Mr D complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has turned down a claim he made on his travel
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D has travel insurance as a benefit of his bank account.
Mr D and his family were due to travel abroad for a weekend to visit a Christmas market.
Theyd planned to take the Eurotunnel to France and then drive on to another country.
However, due to a planned general strike in France when they were due to travel  which
the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) and the media reported could cause disruption
to travel plans - Mr D decided to cancel his trip. He made a claim on his travel insurance
policy for his cancellation costs.
AXA turned down Mr Ds claim. It noted Mr Ds Eurotunnel train had travelled as planned.
And the FCO hadnt advised against all but essential travel to France. It said the policy terms
didnt cover disinclination to travel and that the claim wasnt covered under the cancellation
section of the policy.
Mr D was unhappy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator thought Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. He thought, given the warnings
of travel disruption and potential civil unrest, it wouldve been unreasonable to expect Mr D
and his family to attempt travel and hope for the best. He accepted the FCO hadnt advised
against all but essential travel (which was covered by the policy). But given the duration of
Mr Ds trip, he felt it would be fair and reasonable for AXA to pay the claim.
AXA disagreed. It said it didnt cover hypothetical situations. The FCO advice at the time had
been to check with the tour operator before setting off. It said Mr D hadnt done so and had
decided against travelling. The Eurotunnel train hed been booked on had travelled as
planned. It also said Mr D and his family were travelling through France  they werent using
any other public transport to get to their destination. It maintained the claim simply wasnt
covered by the policy terms.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought AXA had treated Mr D fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say an insurer must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So, Ive considered the terms of Mr Ds policy
and what happened to decide whether AXA has treated Mr Ds claim fairly.
Mr D cancelled his pre-booked accommodation and didnt travel as planned on his non-
refundable Eurotunnel train. This means the claims been considered under the cancellation
section of the policy. The cancellation section of the policy sets out the insured events it
covers. These include the following insured event:
What is covered
A government directive prohibiting all travel to, or recommending evacuation from, the
country or area You were planning to visit or were staying in provided such a directive came
into force after You have left the United Kingdom.
Ive looked very carefully at the travel advice the FCO published around the time Mr D was
due to travel. Thats so I can consider if it can reasonably be treated as a directive
prohibiting all travel to France. The guidance explained that from 5 December 2019, strikes
were expected across France which would primarily affect public transport, causing
cancellations and severe delays. It mentioned that action by lorry drivers could cause
blockages on the roads. It suggested that travellers should check with their operators before
setting off and check services before travelling. It also provided a link to alternative routes if
policyholders did encounter road delays.
Currently, Im not persuaded that the FCO guidance should be treated as a directive
advising against all travel. I think it was clear that people with pre-booked travel plans which
meant they needed to cross the Channel should get in touch with their travel provider before
departing.
From what Mr Ds told us, he didnt get in touch with Eurotunnel before deciding not to travel.
And I think, given the FCO guidance, it wouldve been reasonable for him to do so. If he had,
hed have learned that the train he was booked on to was running. AXA says Mr Ds return
Eurotunnel crossing also ran as planned. So it doesnt seem like the proposed strike action
wouldve affected Mr Ds journey to and from France.
Given what Mr D has told us about previously being affected by strike action and the fact he
was planning to travel with a child, I can entirely understand why he didnt want to risk
making the journey. And I do sympathise with his position. But Ive borne in mind that Mr D
and his family were driving through France to get to their eventual destination using their
own car. So once they arrived in France, their journey wasnt dependent on any other form
of public transport. And they werent staying there. I think the FCO guidance did suggest
alternative driving routes which could limit the potential impact of any road delays.
In some circumstances, I mightve thought it was fair for AXA to pay Mr Ds claim. AXA says
if the FCO guidance had changed to advise against all but essential travel, or if the
Eurotunnel train had been cancelled, its most likely the claim wouldve been covered. And if
there was evidence which suggested Mr D had spoken to the travel operator before deciding
not to go and been advised not to travel, Id have likely told AXA it should pay the claim.
But in these circumstances, as the FCO guidance doesnt fall within the scope of policy
cover; Mr Ds trains did run as planned and as Mr D didnt speak to his travel provider
beforehand to check the situation, I dont currently think I can fairly direct AXA to deal with
his claim. So I currently think it was fair for AXA to turn it down.
I asked both parties to send me anything further they wanted me to consider.
AXA had nothing more to add.
Mr D didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary, he said:
It wasnt fair that the investigator had reached a fair outcome, but that AXA had been 
able to use its resources to get the outcome overturned by an ombudsman;
My provisional decision was based on legal technicalities rather than fairness;
Mr Ds family had been victims of strike action the previous year abroad, while travelling in their car. He didnt want a repeat of the disruption and didnt want to put 
his family in danger due to road blockages. He provided some links to news stories 
about the disruption;
The fact Mr Ds family werent using public transport was irrelevant;
AXA hadnt dealt with the claim fairly or promptly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think it was fair for AXA to turn down Mr Ds claim and Ill explain why.
I understand how disappointing it was that I didnt reach the same outcome as the 
investigator in Mr Ds case and how strongly he feels about this. Id like to reassure him that 
my own assessment of the complaint was based on a review of exactly the same evidence 
that our investigator considered. No additional information was provided by either party until 
after I issued my provisional decision. 
Its also important for me to explain that while I can depart from the strict interpretation of the 
terms of the contract between an insurer and policyholder in some circumstances, I need to 
be persuaded that it would be fair and reasonable for me to require an insurer to do so.
In Mr Ds case, his claim simply isnt covered by the cancellation section of the policy. And I 
dont think I can fairly say that the FCO guidance should be treated as a directive advising 
against travel to France. Public transport was still running and Mr Ds own Eurotunnel train 
travelled as planned. This suggests that the authorities and transport operators felt that 
travel by public transport was safe. So I think it is relevant to take this into account in Mr Ds 
case. Details of alterative driving routes had also been provided to help travellers avoid any 
roads which were thought most likely to be affected by blockade action. I havent seen any 
evidence from the FCO which suggested that drivers shouldnt travel to France.
As I explained, given Mr Ds previous experiences, I can understand why he was concerned 
about driving through France. But travel insurance policies simply arent designed to cover 
disclination to travel. And in this case, given his transport ran as planned; it doesnt appear 
he contacted Eurotunnel before cancelling the trip to check whether it thought thered be a 
problem; and the FCO hadnt advised against all but essential travel to France; I simply dont 
think I can fairly conclude that Mr Ds claim should be paid.
I appreciate Mr D feels his claim wasnt dealt with promptly. I think he was given a decision 
within a reasonable timeframe and Im satisfied AXA looked into the claim fairly. Mr D feels 
he shouldve been given referral rights to this service when the claim was declined, but AXA 
isnt obliged to let its policyholders know about their right to complain to us until a complaint 
is made.
Overall, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr D, I still think it was fair and reasonable for AXA to 
turn down his claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman