DRN-3844012
The complaint
Mr C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) has used the wrong 
transaction date when switching funds within his pension. 
What happened
Mr C has a pension with Aviva. On 14 June 2022, Aviva sent Mr C an email thanking him for 
his request to make a change to his investment funds and said it was working on this.
On 15 June 2022, Aviva sent Mr C confirmation it had moved his funds as requested. The 
letter said the change had been made using fund prices as of 18 May 2022.
In July 2022, Mr C contacted Aviva to query why the transfer had been made using fund 
prices from 18 May 2022. 
Aviva said that its systems showed the transfer was requested in May 2022 and should have 
completed on 18 May 2022. But, due to an error, the task to process this hadnt been 
generated by its system until 14 June 2022, when it sent Mr C the email saying it was 
working on his request. So, Aviva explained that the transfer date had been backdated to 
when the request was made, to ensure Mr C was in the position he should always have 
been in.
Mr C complained to Aviva. He denied that hed requested the transfer in May 2022 and said 
this had been done in June 2022. So, he thought Aviva was incorrect to have used the 
18 May 2022 prices to complete this. He also said Aviva should calculate if hed have been 
better off had the transfer been done using prices in June 2022.
Aviva acknowledged Mr Cs frustration but reiterated that its systems showed the request 
was made in May 2022. And there was no evidence to the contrary. So, it didnt think it had 
made an error by backdating the unit prices for the transaction. It did agree to send Mr C a 
cheque for £50 for the upset caused by the confusion its system error had created.
Aviva also ran calculations as Mr C had requested and shared these after responding to the 
complaint. These calculations indicate that if the transfer had gone ahead using unit values 
from June 2022, Mr C wouldve received a higher value at the time of the transfer.
Mr C referred his complaint to our service as he still maintained hed instructed the transfer 
in June 2022 and not May 2022 and felt the email hed received on 14 June 2022 showed 
this.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint but didnt think Aviva needed to do 
anything further. He acknowledged Mr C had received an email on 14 June 2022 saying 
Aviva had received his request. And he noted that Avivas system notes indicated the 
request was logged on 14 June 2022. But he noted Avivas systems also reflected the 
request being made in May 2022 and on balance he believed this was likely when the 
transfer request was made. The Investigator accepted Avivas explanation the record 
reflected the date its system logged the need to action Mr Cs request and that an error had 
led to this being delayed, and the relevant task not being generated until that point. He also 
accepted that the email sent was automatically generated when this task was created, which 
again Aviva had said was what was delayed due to an error. So, he thought Aviva had acted 
correctly as he believed on balance Mr C was in the same position he should always have 
been in and he thought the £50 offered for the confusion was fair.
Mr C did not agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a 
result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Aviva has provided evidence of its processes which show that requests to transfer between 
funds are usually actioned within one or two working days. And the unit prices used are 
those at the time. It has also said, once a task is generated internally for it to work on a 
request, an acknowledgement email is also automatically generated. And Ive seen evidence 
of other transfers Mr C has instructed within his pension being completed within this 
timescale and email acknowledgements being produced in line with this process. 
Aviva says that the transfer that is the subject of this complaint was instructed shortly prior to 
18 May 2022 and should have been completed on that date. But a system error meant that 
the task to action this was not generated correctly, and the request was not logged and an 
acknowledgement email was not sent. It says this was rectified and the relevant task to 
action the request was generated on 14 June 2022  which is what prompted the automated 
email of the same day. But it says the request was made in May and it was correct to 
backdate the transfer as if it had been completed correctly at that time.
Mr C says he didnt instruct the transfer until 14 June 2022 and argues, if hed instructed it 
sooner, hed have chased for confirmation.
There hasnt been any dispute between the parties that the transfer was instructed or that 
this was done online. Mr C has not said anything to the contrary. It also isnt in dispute that 
the instruction was logged on 14 June 2022. And Aviva has acknowledged that if a request 
was made on 14 June 2022, and no system error occurred, the same information would be 
recorded. The only dispute is whether the date that the instruction was given and logged is 
right. 
Weve asked Aviva for evidence of when Mr C has accessed his pension online to try to help 
establish when the instruction could have been given. But it has explained that its activity 
logs dont show Mr C accessing his pension online in May 2022 or June 2022 or in fact in 
2022 at all. It has said its systems rely on customers accepting certain online settings and if 
these are declined, instances of accessing the pension online will not be recorded. And it 
thinks Mr C is likely to have declined these settings. I agree that seems likely, as it isnt in 
dispute that Mr C has accessed his pension online as, in addition to this transfer that is 
subject of the complaint, Ive seen evidence another transfer was instructed in August 2022, 
but no log was generated. What this means though is that there isnt any further evidence to 
show when the instruction was given. 
Mr C has said that he instructed the transfer in June 2022, and the email he received from Aviva is proof of that. But beyond this, there is no further documentary evidence to support 
the instruction being given in June 2022.
Aviva has said that email is automated and only sent once the relevant task generates on its 
system. It says that an error led to the generation of this task being delayed and the request 
being logged. But it says the request was made in May 2022. And it has shown that its 
system recorded a date of 18 May 2022 for the date the transfer shouldve completed. 
Here the evidence is inconclusive and the position of the parties contradictory. So, I have to 
decide what I think is more likely than not to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
As I see it there are two things that could have happened. 
The first is that Mr C is mistaken, the transfer request was made in May 2022, as Avivas 
systems record, and Aviva is correct that, due to an error within its system that it says it 
identified, this failed to log correctly and the relevant task not generated. 
The alternative is that the transaction wasnt instructed until 14 June 2022, but Avivas 
systems have erroneously, and apparently at random, created a record of the request having 
been logged in May 2022. But, in this scenario, rather than address that error Aviva instead 
said that the erroneous information wasnt wrong and that a different system issue existed, 
which didnt. And this apparently incorrect explanation, wouldve been given before any 
calculation had been undertaken to establish which unit values on which date wouldve been 
more beneficial for Mr C. 
Taking everything into account, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, I 
think, on balance, the first scenario is more likely to have occurred and that the instruction 
was likely given in May and ought to have completed by 18 May 2022 as Aviva has said. I 
say this because, beyond his testimony, Ive seen nothing to support the instruction being 
given in June 2022 and Ive seen nothing to indicate the instruction date of May 2022 was 
logged erroneously by Aviva. And so, I think Aviva was correct to carry out the transfer as if 
it had completed on 18 May 2022 as this appears to be the position that Mr C should always 
have been in.
Aviva has accepted that an error that did take place  the delay in logging the transfer 
request. And that this caused the confusion, which I dont doubt was frustrating for Mr C. To 
address this, I understand Aviva sent Mr C a cheque for £50 for the upset caused. In the 
circumstances, I think that is fair. So, I dont intend to require Aviva to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman