DRN-4067850
The complaint
Mr K complains Zopa Limited prevented him unable to access his funds from his Peer to 
Peer (P2P) lending account  causing him distress and financial detriment.
What happened
Mr M held accounts on Zopas P2P platform for a number of years. In January 2022, Zopa 
made the decision to close the P2P lending side of its business. Mr K sought to withdraw his 
investment the following month. Despite making previous withdrawals, he was asked to 
revalidate his ID before Zopa could release further funds, so he complained.
On 15 and 16 March 2022, Zopa responded to Mr Ks concerns. It didnt uphold the 
complaint but did express sympathy for his frustration. It explained his bank account hadnt 
been verified, and it needed to be able to do this to comply with anti-money laundering 
controls. Its response set out the information it needed from Mr K to progress the situation. 
Mr K referred the matter to this service. He described the number of times he engaged with 
Zopa with no success and highlighted the distress and financial hardship to both him and his
family as well as the impact to both his mental and physical health.
Our investigator looked into Mr K s concerns. She found:
There were marked discrepancies with the information Zopa held for the account in 
question so Zopa had valid concerns that Mr K wasnt the legitimate account holder.
The information that hed presented prior to this services involvement and since 
then, hadnt met Zopas requirements because it wasnt current, and hadnt been 
presented in the format Zopa had required to authenticate the validity of it.
Although Zopa did later agree to release the funds, this didnt persuade the 
investigator that it had acted unfairly as even at that point, the format of the 
documents hadnt met the required standard  it was simply that Zopa were happy to 
proceed despite the situation.
However, Zopa had fallen short in December 2022 when it advised it would contact 
Mr K to confirm information it was willing to accept but failed to do so. 
Zopa was made aware on 13 January 2023 of Mr Ks financial difficulty but again 
failed to respond for three weeks which in the circumstances, was unreasonable.
Whilst the funds had now been paid, it delayed releasing the funds once Mr Ks 
account details were provided.
The investigator concluded that for the period of avoidable delay, Zopa should pay 
£200 to take into account the impact this had on Mr K.
Mr K raised further points in response to the investigators assessment. He complained Zopa 
had continued to lend his money without permission and had concerns about the balance of 
his account. 
The investigator confirmed her position had remained unchanged and that as the new issues 
hadnt been considered by Zopa, this service couldnt yet comment on them. The 
investigator passed the complaint points to Zopa to look into and we set up a new complaint 
to specifically investigate the follow-up issues, if necessary.
Mr K was still unhappy, so the complaint was referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much
recognise Mr Ks strength of feeling about this matter. I understand he has raised a number 
of points during his contact with this service. But I should clarify that we are an informal 
service and our rules allow me to focus on what I consider relevant. So, whilst Ive 
considered everything he has said, Ive limited my findings to those areas which impact on 
the outcome of the case. 
Role of this service
I think its important to bear in mind the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service
and what this Service can and cant do under the rules that govern it given Mr Ks 
comments. This Service is an independent and impartial organisation which looks at each 
complaint on their individual merits. When assessing complaints, we take into account 
relevant law, regulation and best industry practice but Im not bound by it. Its for me to 
decide based on the information Ive been given, what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Further, this Service hasnt been set up to take enforcement action or make changes to the 
financial industry. This is because we are not the regulator so we cant tell Zopa to change 
its processes or the way in which it decides to run its business. But we can, look to see if it 
has acted fairly and in line with its rules in this particular case. Thats what Ive done here.
Valid ID
The key issue for me to consider here is whether the ID Mr K offered Zopa should have been 
accepted earlier than it was.
It is down to the business to determine how to meet those requirements, therefore, a matter 
of commercial discretion. Zopas validation process meant that it needed to verify the bank 
account linked to Mr Ks profile before it could release any funds. But even more so following 
the discrepancy in both name and date of birth that had come to light after Mr Ks withdrawal 
request in 2022. Im satisfied Zopas request for the account to be verified was reasonable in 
light of its ongoing responsibility to meet its obligations in terms of anti-money laundering 
controls, and that its request for information was to satisfy those checks. 
Zopa clearly set out the information it would accept and the format it needed to be in - this 
included a change of name certificate (if a deed poll had taken place) and a utility bill to 
matching Mr Ks name and address. I dont think it was unreasonable for Zopa to have 
required this information of Mr K in light of the discrepancies, but further, because the details 
inputted at account opening stage would have been done so by the account holder and 
hadnt been verified for years.
Unfortunately, the information Mr K supplied in November 2022 couldnt be authenticated, 
nor were the statements he supplied shown to have been dated in the last three months. So, 
it would seem the delay in Mr K accessing his funds at that point was because he didnt offer Zopa the documents it required and without that, it couldnt make the transfer to him. As 
such, I dont think that Zopa has acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
Despite the concerns Zopa held, the investigator facilitated the acceptance of alternative 
documentary evidence. This included two sets of bank statements linked to the accounts in 
addition to a utility bill. Mr K supplied redacted information despite that request, but, in an 
effort to bring the matter to a close, Zopa took the decision to release the funds anyway. I 
dont think it was unreasonable of Zopa to have requested the evidence it did given the 
validation process. I say this because Zopa provided a reasonable explanation for the 
information it needed, and Im satisfied this was a legitimate use of its commercial 
judgement.
Communication
Mr K tells us that hes tried to contact Zopa with very little success. From the information Ive 
seen, I think Zopa investigated Mr Ks complaint and provided a fair response within a 
reasonable time. I appreciate Mr K doesnt agree. Hes wrote to Zopa after it issued its final 
response on 15 March 2022, but I cant see any further contact from him until August 2022 - 
after the point our service had become involved. Whilst I have no doubt about Mr Ks 
frustrations, Im satisfied Zopa told Mr K the information it required, that the response it 
provided was final - and explained he had the right to take the matter further by contacting 
this service if he remained unhappy. And whilst I havent seen anything to suggest Mr K did 
make further contact, even if he had, I dont think it would be fair to criticise Zopa for not 
entering into further correspondence.
However, like the investigator, I do agree Zopa could have done more to move the situation 
along at points once the complaint had reached this service  specifically when Zopa was 
didnt engage with Mr K in December 2022 and further, when it delayed responding to 
information requests. 
Whilst Ive not seen evidence to support Zopas action caused Mr K any financial detriment, I 
think that the delays Zopa caused in handling the complaint between December 2022 and 
March 2023 has worsened Mr Ks experience and added to his frustration. And, at I time I 
understand was personally difficult for him.
Putting things right
Having thought carefully about everything Mr K has experienced and after having reviewed 
all the evidence available, I agree with our investigator that £200 is a fair and reasonable 
amount of compensation for Zopa to pay for the overall distress and inconvenience caused 
in this case.
Finally, I understand Zopa has now transferred the balance of Mr Ks accounts to his 
preferred bank account. Since bringing the matter to this service, Mr K has raised concerns 
over the amounts he believes were in the accounts and whether Zopa has continued to lend 
without his permission. Id like to make it clear that those elements of Mr Ks complaint arent 
the subject of this decision and therefore any consideration of this hasnt been the subject of 
my review here.
My final decision
Zopa Limited should pay Mr K £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him if hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Farzana Miah
Ombudsman