DRN-1099489
 
The complaint
Ms L is unhappy Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card (Home 
Retail) charged her a late payment fee and with the potential impact of this on her credit 
rating. She would like Home Retail to waive the fee and remove any late payment markers. 
 What happened
Ms L has had a Home Retail store card since 2016. In June 2019, she was sent a statement 
saying she needed to make a minimum payment of £11.80 by 19 July. On 16 July, Ms L 
attempted to make the minimum payment using an online facility while she was abroad. The 
first payment wast successful, but Ms L says she tried again and the payment went through. 
She then received a statement from Home Retail a few days later, which included a late 
payment fee of £12. Ms L is unhappy a charge has been applied as shes never missed a 
payment previously, and she thought shed paid on time.
Home Retail says the initial payment Ms L made was declined because she used an 
incorrect security code. It has no record of a further attempt to pay and says no payment has 
been received. So Home Retail says it acted fairly in applying the late payment fee. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didn't uphold it. He thought Home Retail acted 
in line with its terms and conditions. Ms L disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review 
her complaint, so its been passed to me. She says its unfair to rely on terms and conditions 
without taking into account the circumstances. 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first thing I need to consider is whether Ms L made a minimum payment by
19 July 2019. Ive seen Home Retails records and can see evidence of Ms Ls payments up 
to 8 June 2019. They also show an attempted payment on 16 July, and the reason why this 
was declined. But there is no record of a further payment being attempted, declined or 
actually made on 16 July. The next payment made was on 25 July. 
I appreciate Ms L wanted to make a payment and thought shed done so. But based on the 
information I have available, Im satisfied the minimum payment wasnt made by 19 July. 
Home Retail terms and conditions say:
Our Fees and Charges
We may charge:
 £12 if you do not make your minimum monthly contractual payment on time.So I think Home Retail was entitled to charge Ms L the late payment fee as she didnt make 
the required minimum payment on time. I understand Ms L intended to make the payment 
and something went wrong, but Im looking at whether  Home Retail acted fairly and 
reasonably in charging her the late payment fee.  And in the circumstances of this complaint, 
Im satisfied that the fee was charged correctly and in line with the terms and conditions of 
the account. 
I understand Ms Ls comments that shed never missed a payment and thought she did in 
fact make the required payment. In the absence of evidence showing that a payment was 
made, I dont think Home Retail acted inappropriately in charging her. I can see Ms L has 
online access and also uses a mobile app and I wouldve therefore expected her to check 
that the payment went through, particularly as the first attempt didnt go through. 
Overall, I think Home Retails has acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account 
and applied the charge fairly in the circumstances of this case. It doesnt need to do anything 
further. 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint against Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited trading as Argos Card.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2019.
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman