DRN-3983546
The complaint
Mr T complains about how One Call Claims Limited (One Call) handled his claim after he 
was involved in a road traffic accident. 
Mr Ts complaint has been brought on his behalf by a representative, who Ill refer to as     
Ms W. 
What happened
Mr T was involved in an accident in 2018 which he reported to One Call. Mr T says he was 
then contacted by a firm of solicitors saying theyd been instructed by One Call to deal with 
his claim. Mr T says he later found out that the solicitors fees werent covered by One Call 
so he complained about this and also One Call passing on his details to the solicitors without 
his permission. He also complained about receiving marketing materials from One Call. 
One Call responded and explained, when they initially dealt with the first notification, they 
transferred the claim to Mr Ts insurer, but as he also mentioned he was injured, they said 
they explained to Mr T that they would be sending this side of the claim to their solicitors. 
One Call explained they no longer have the call to prove they discussed the solicitor referral 
with Mr T, so they offered £75 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr T. He thought the £75 offered was fair and didnt 
recommend One Call take any further action. Mr T disagreed so the matter has come to me 
for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the £75 compensation offered by One Call is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I understand Mr T will be disappointed by this but Ill 
explain why I have made this decision. 
I think its important for me to firstly clarify what Im able to look at in this decision. I can see 
Mr T has three parts to this complaint but Im only able to consider the complaint about One 
Calls referral to the solicitors as this falls within their remit as an Accident Management 
Company (AMC). The complaint about the legal cover and the marketing materials will 
need to be raised against the insurer or broker. I can see the main crux of Mr Ts complaint 
here is about One Calls referral to a solicitor without his permission. 
Up until 31 March 2019, Claims Management Companies (CMCs) were regulated by the 
Claims Management Regulator. And complaints about CMCs were dealt with by the Legal 
Ombudsman. On 1 April 2019 the regulation of CMCs switched to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA), and complaints moved to the Claims Management Ombudsman. Because 
the events Mr T is complaining about took place before this change in regulation, my 
decision is based on the approach the Claims Management Regulator and Legal 
Ombudsman would have taken. 
I can see our investigator has asked One Call for a copy of the call recording of the first 
notification, but they say the call was lost following a cyber incident. This is unfortunate as 
this wouldve provided the most persuasive evidence of whether One Call had sought Mr Ts 
permission to refer his details to the solicitors. So, in the absence of this, I have carefully 
considered the information I do have to decide what I think, more likely than not, has 
happened here.   
It might help if I firstly set out One Calls role here. One Call are an AMC who generally 
become involved where a customer has been involved in an accident. Where its non-fault, 
some insurers will give the customer the option of going through their insurance policy and 
paying an excess, or to go through the non-fault AMC route. When opting for the AMC route 
this will generally involve the AMC carrying out work under an agreement which is separate 
to the insurance policy.  
One Call explain theyre authorised to deal with the first instance of a claim on behalf of     
Mr Ts insurer  so thats why the first notification of the claim was made to them. The claim 
notes show, when Mr T reported the incident to One Call, it was established that the third-
party was uninsured and One Call then referred Mr T to his insurer to deal with the claim. 
One Call say, during this call, Mr T also mentioned hed sustained an injury so they 
explained to Mr T they would refer the injury claim to their preferred solicitors. This was done 
the same day and the claim notes show the solicitors contacted One Call to say the phone 
number theyd given was incomplete so One Call provided an email address to contact Mr T. 
I can see the solicitors emailed Mr T the same day to say theyd received his details from 
One Call to set up a claim  and they also ask for his phone number. The claim notes show 
Mr T called One Call a few days later to discuss his injury and they referred him to the 
solicitors. 
Taking this into account, I believe its more likely than not, One Call did make Mr T aware 
they would be referring his claim to their solicitors. Following the solicitors email, I cant see 
Mr T raised a query with One Call about why hed been contacted by solicitors. And when he 
called One Call a few days later and they referred him to the solicitors, he doesnt raise any 
queries at this point either. Had there been no discussion about a referral to solicitors, I think 
its more likely than not, Mr T wouldve raised queries at the time and asked why his details 
have been shared with the solicitors. 
While I think the evidence shows Mr T was, more likely than not, informed about the referral 
to the solicitors, I agree with One Calls approach to offer compensation for not being able to 
supply Mr T with a recording of the first notification call. And I think £75 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the frustration to Mr T in not being able to listen 
to this call. But, for the reasons mentioned above, I believe the other evidence does show, 
on the balance of probabilities, One Call wouldve mentioned the solicitor referral to Mr T 
when he first reported the accident.  
 
I note Ms W says Mr T is adamant he didnt agree to his details being passed to solicitors 
and, because hes very particular about choices and decisions, he wouldnt have made an 
immediate decision over a phone call. Ms W also says Mr T wasnt made aware at the time 
that there was a choice as to whether he wanted to use the preferred solicitors or not. 
Ms W says Mr T explains, because he wasnt asked for consent, he was led to believe there 
wasnt a choice in the matter and his details had to be passed to the solicitors. I have 
carefully considered the points made and I do acknowledge the call recording wouldve 
provided the most persuasive evidence showing if, and how, the solicitor referral was 
presented to Mr T and whether he was given a choice. But, from the evidence I have seen, 
Im persuaded One Call did discuss the referral with Mr T. Ms W explains Mr T is very 
particular about giving consent for his personal information to be shared. That being the case, I believe, had One Call not obtained Mr Ts consent during the call, Im further 
persuaded Mr T would therefore have raised concerns at the time when he received the 
email from the solicitors.  
My final decision
One Call Claims Limited have already made an offer to pay £75 compensation to settle the 
complaint, and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that One Call Claims Limited should pay £75 to Mr T, if they havent done 
so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman