DRN-3914736
The complaint
Mr L complains Fluro Platform Limited trading as Lending Works (Lending Works) 
irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Lending Works approved Mr L for a £5,000 loan in June 2019. The term of the loan was 36 
months, with repayments of approximately £170 per month. The purpose of the loan was 
listed as debt consolidation.
Mr L complains Lending Works did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the loan. He says had it done so it wouldve realised the loan was 
unaffordable to him. Mr L says he had a number of existing credit commitments and that he 
was spending a significant proportion of his income on gambling.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint be upheld. She felt Lending Works had 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks had not highlighted Mr L 
was experiencing financial difficulties, and as such it did not need to get a further 
understanding into Mr Ls finances before approving the loan. She said the checks Lending 
Works completed demonstrated the loan was affordable to Mr L.
Mr L disagreed with the assessment. He maintained the checks Lending Works completed 
were not proportionate. He says that he had recently changed employers and he had a high 
level of existing debt, which was as a result of him regularly using a proportion of his income 
on gambling. He says these shouldve flagged to Lending Works that he was a higher risk to 
be lent to and prompted it to complete further checks. He maintains had Lending Works 
done this it wouldve seen he could not afford this loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint. 
Lending Works and Mr L are aware of our services approach to unaffordable and 
irresponsible lending complaints, so for the sake of conciseness I wont set out the detail 
here.
Having carefully considered all of the relevant information, Im satisfied this complaint should 
not be upheld. This is for broadly the same reasons that our investigator set out to Mr L.
Mr L says Lending Works did not complete reasonable and proportionate checks. He says 
the information it gathered shouldve prompted Lending Works to complete further checks. 
And had it done so, it wouldve realised the loan was unaffordable to Mr L. Mr L says this is 
because he already had a high level of existing credit commitments, and that his expenses 
were higher due to the fact he was spending significant amounts of his available funds on 
gambling transactions.  
Lending Works needed to take reasonable steps to ensure the lending it provided was 
responsibly lent to Mr L. The relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time Lending 
Works lent effectively required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These 
checks needed to assess Mr Ls ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its 
term, without causing him financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they shouldve been 
effectively proportionate, taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total 
cost of the credit, as well as the borrowers individual circumstances.
In this instance, Im satisfied that Lending Works completed reasonable and proportionate 
checks before lending to Mr L. I can see that Lending Works completed an income and 
expenditure assessment (relying on some information which Mr L declared himself). Mr L 
declared his income to be around £2,350 per month, and Lending Works used a third-party 
online verification tool to cross-check if this figure was broadly accurate. In working out Mr 
Ls outgoings Lending Works completed a search of Mr Ls credit file and asked him 
questions about his main non-credit related outgoings. Lending Works used an estimation 
for Mr L's outgoings based on his salary and his living arrangements. Mr L did not provide an 
answer to how much rent or mortgage he paid so Lending Works used a figure of £350 for 
this amount. 
The credit file search was used to verify Mr Ls existing credit commitments. This search 
demonstrated that Mr L had a number of existing credit commitments. These included an 
existing unsecured loan, two credit cards and a small overdraft. The total amount of credit 
was around £15,800. The credit report showed that Mr L had been maintaining these 
accounts well. And there were no major signs of sustained difficulties  such as recent 
registered defaults or CCJs.
Using this information, Lending Works, completed its affordability assessment which 
demonstrated that Mr L would have a sufficient amount of income to meet the necessary 
repayments. It says that there was no information which it gathered which called into 
question the information Mr L provided.
Ive considered Mr Ls arguments but Im not persuaded by them in this instance. Mr L says 
that he had a number of existing credit commitments which shouldve prompted Lending 
Works to complete further checks. Ive seen the information which Lending Works gathered, 
and Im satisfied that it was aware of a number of existing credit commitments Mr L had. 
These commitments, whilst not nominal, were not obviously so high in themselves to 
suggest he was overly indebted at this point. Im also satisfied that whilst he did have a 
number of commitments, the information which Lending Works had, demonstrated that he 
was managing these commitments well. There were no negative markers on the file which 
may indicate Mr L was over indebted or struggling financially.
Mr L says that his income was lower than that declared, and that he had recently moved 
employers. Whilst that may be true, Im satisfied that Lending Works were entitled to rely on 
the information which Mr L provided. Ive not seen any information which would demonstrate 
Lending Works was made aware of a lower figure, or that the information it relied on was 
unreasonable for it to do so. Indeed the cross-checking that Lending Works carried out 
suggested that Mr Ls declaration of income was broadly accurate. I should point out that this 
was the first loan Mr L had with Lending Works. And there was no reason for it to challenge this information (this is aligned to the fact that the rest of the information it gathered 
appeared consistent with the information Mr L declared and Lending Works recorded).
As Im satisfied Lending Works completed reasonable and proportionate checks, Ive gone 
on to consider if it made a fair decision to lend. As stated above, after it completed all of its 
calculations, Lending Works deemed that Mr L would have a sufficient level of disposable 
income to sustainably repay the loan. Lending Works also says that the purposed of the loan 
was for debt consolidation and thereby wouldve further reduced Mr Ls outgoings.
Mr L says that evidence on his bank statements shows that he was over indebted and was 
exceeding his income considerably by gambling. He says he was also having to borrow 
significant amounts from family and friends.
Whilst again that may well be true; Im satisfied that Lending Works made a fair decision to 
lend. Ultimately as Im satisfied it completed reasonable and proportionate checks, and 
these demonstrated that the loan was likely affordable to Mr L; Im satisfied it made a fair 
decision to lend.
I know this outcome will come as a disappointment to Mr L. However, Im satisfied that 
Lending Works was entitled to rely on the information it was provided. And as this 
information appeared consistent and reasonable, that it was fair for it to conclude the loan 
was affordable to Mr L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman