DRN-2954787
The complaint
Mr W complains Aspray Ltd didnt carry out repair works properly as part of his claim on his 
buildings insurance policy. In particular, hes unhappy it stored and refitted his kitchen units 
rather than replacing them. As a result, he says mould has spread throughout the kitchen.
What happened
Mr W says he fitted a new kitchen and a few months later, mains water entered his property 
through the basement. So he made a claim on his buildings insurance policy. Although the 
insurer (who Ill call E) repaired the leak, damp and mould developed in different areas. 
Around May 2016, after the claim had been ongoing, Mr W instructed Aspray as a loss 
assessor as he was unhappy with the loss adjuster appointed by E. Aspray says it carried 
out the reinstatement works approved by E. Drying out of the property had already begun 
and works  including plastering, new flooring and installation of tanking membrane  were 
completed in June 2017. Mr W paid £1,500 towards upgrading the tanking membrane.
A report was put together by the specialists appointed to dry out the property. Amongst other 
things, Mr Ws highlighted the report said the kitchen units had mould growth and should be 
assessed. He says instead, they were stored in his damp house before being refitted. Whilst 
Aspray says it only refitted undamaged units, Mr W thinks they all shouldve been replaced.
Mr W says as a result of how Aspray carried out the reinstatement works, his property is still 
mouldy. Hes provided notes to show he raised concerns about damp during his claim. 
The works on the property were completed in June 2017. Mr W says he wasnt put back in 
the position he was in before the incident as hes been left with a damp and damaged 
kitchen rather than a new one. So he commissioned a report from a third party who Ill call 
B. This report said it was based on personal opinion based on the higher moisture readings 
at the property  and hadnt been put together by an expert in the area. Overall it suggested 
there was a damp and mould issue at the property because the waterproof membrane or 
tanking might have failed. So Mr W made a complaint to E and Aspray.
Aspray didnt accept Bs report as it hadnt been put together by an expert in tanking. And its 
highlighted inaccuracies including that it said no drying out certificate had been issued when 
it had in December 2016. It arranged for a tanking specialist to visit the property who said in 
October 2019 there was no evidence it had failed. It thought it had carried out the works 
authorised by E correctly and it didnt think the issues Mr W had now were related to these 
works from two years before. But it suggested he get an independent expert to dispute this. 
As the complaint wasnt resolved, Mr W asked our service to look into things. Our 
investigator didnt think Aspray had done anything wrong. As Mr W didnt agree with our 
investigators assessment, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this complaints been ongoing for Mr W for a very long time so I thank him for his 
patience. But I dont think it should be upheld, I know hell be very disappointed. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute in this case that theres a problem with mould at Mr Ws 
property. He says it was caused by mould already in the refitted units spreading throughout 
the kitchen. But, Bs report doesnt suggest this. Instead it says there are problems with 
damp in the property as their readings indicate a high level of moisture. And whilst it 
mentions there might be issues with mould, it doesnt indicate the likely reason is what 
Mr Ws said. I also note it says theres most likely mould growth behind the plasterboard and 
this seems unusual if the growth was caused by it spreading from the kitchen units. 
Based on everything Ive seen, including Mr Ws report, I think high levels of moisture and 
damp are likely to cause any mould growth Mr Ws noticed. So it seems unlikely the 
problems hes facing now are caused by Aspray not replacing all of his kitchen units.
From looking at the schedule of works provided by Aspray, its clear it installed a tanking 
membrane to prevent water ingress. So if theres a problem with that which is causing the 
damp in Mr Ws property now, Aspray would be responsible for this. 
Ive thought carefully about the report provided by Mr W. I dont think I can rely on it to say 
there was more likely a problem with the works Aspray undertook  in particular with the 
tanking. I say this because the outcome of the report is based on some information that isnt 
quite accurate. And the surveyor who inspected the property has said hes not an expert in 
this area. I also note whilst it says there might be a problem with the tanking membrane, it 
suggests further investigation is needed.
Aspray arranged for an expert to take another look at the tanking  and they didnt identify 
any problems. And whilst Mr W was given opportunities to provide further independent, 
expert evidence, I cant see that he has. So Im not persuaded in this case theres enough 
evidence to say the issues hes experiencing now are linked to the installation of the tanking 
or the other work Aspray carried out. I note in response to our investigators assessment 
Mr W doesnt dispute its unlikely the tanking has failed. 
Based on everything Ive seen in this case, Im not satisfied theres enough to say the 
remediation works at Mr Ws property have failed or caused the problems hes facing now.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision 
before 11 January 2021. 
Nadya Neve
Ombudsman