DRN-3891527
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim he made under his travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M purchased an annual multi trip travel insurance policy on 8 March 2022, through an 
intermediary. The insurer for the policy was Great Lakes, and the start date on the policy 
was 15 March 2022  which was the same date Mr M was due to go on holiday. 
Unfortunately, on 14 March 2022 Mr M tested positive for Covid-19. He tested again on 
15 March 2022 and remained positive for the virus. So, he was no longer able to go on 
holiday. 
Because Mr M was no longer able to go on holiday, he made a claim under his travel 
insurance policy, for losses he incurred.
Great Lakes considered Mr Ms claim and declined it. It said that Mr M needed to cancel his 
trip of 14 March 2022, due to contracting Covid-19. But at that point his policy hadnt started. 
So, there was no cover under the policy for him needing to cancel the trip before the policys 
start date.
Mr M didnt feel this was fair. Mr M said that whilst he did test positive for Covid-19 on 14 
March 2022, his loss didnt materialise until 15 March 2022, when he was unable to travel, 
and had cover under his policy. Mr M said if he tested negative on 15 March, despite having 
a positive test the previous day, he still would have been able to go on the trip. 
In addition to this, Mr M said that when he purchased his policy through the intermediary, he 
was advised that his policy didnt need to start until the day of his holiday. So, he feels the 
information that was given to him by the intermediary was wrong. Mr M said if he had been 
told that the policy didnt to start earlier, for him to have cancellation cover prior to 15 March 
2022, he would have started the policy at an earlier point.
Great Lakes maintained its position on the matter. So, Mr M referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said the 
event that led Mr M to cancel his policy had happened before the policys start date. And so, 
there was no cover for the situation Mr M found himself in. Our investigator also noted there 
was a small delay in Great Lakes telling Mr M the outcome of his claim. But this didnt have 
any significant impact on the situation  as the outcome of Mr Ms claim would have been 
the same either way.
Mr M didnt agree. Mr M said that in reality he had probably contracted Covid-19 well before 
14 March 2022, but it wouldnt be possible to know this. Mr M noted that the stress and 
anxiety he had felt at losing his money, but not being able to go on holiday, was significant. 
Mr M said there was delays in Great Lakes communicating with him, and this made the 
situation difficult. 
Mr M also reiterated that he was told by the intermediary to take the policy out, starting on 
the day of travel. 
As Mr M didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Great Lakes to 
do anything more. 
I appreciate this is going to come as a disappointment to Mr M. But Id like to reassure the 
parties that I have considered all of the information submitted by both parties and taken this 
into account when arriving at my final decision. But Ive only referenced what I consider to be 
necessary to explain my decision below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Great 
Lakes acted in line with these requirements when it declined to settle Mr Ms claim. And Im 
satisfied it did.
Ive reviewed Mr Ms policy documentation. And I can see that the policy did start on 
15 March 2022. So, Im aware there is no cover under the policy until that date.
Mr M contacted Covid-19 prior to his policy start date. And this was evidenced with a positive 
test on 14 March 2022. Given that the reason Mr M needed to claim was for contracting 
Covid-19, which happened before his policy began, Im satisfied Great Lakes acted fairly in 
declining Mr Ms claim. 
I appreciate that Mr M has said if he had tested negative for Covid-19 on 15 March 2022 he 
would have been able to go on holiday. But Mr M didnt test negative on 15 March. And as 
above, he had contracted Covid-19 prior to this date, which gave rise to him needing to 
cancel his holiday. So, Im satisfied that this point doesnt alter the outcome on this 
complaint. 
Mr M has said that the time taken to provide him with an answer on his claim was difficult. 
So, Ive considered this point too. Mr M made his claim around 17 March 2022 and was 
provided with an answer on the outcome of his claim on 26 April 2022. In the meantime, 
Great Lakes asked for some information to assess the claim. And it needed to consider the 
information it provided, before giving an answer. So, I dont think the time it took to provide 
an outcome on the claim was unreasonable. Great Lakes has accepted that it took too long 
to provide an answer to Mr Ms complaint and apologised for this. I think thats fair. But as 
Mr M already had the answer to his claim outcome in April 2022, I dont consider Great 
Lakes need to do anything more in this respect. He was already aware the loss wouldnt be 
covered.
Mr M has said that the intermediary he purchased the policy through provided him with 
incorrect information  by telling him that he didnt need to start the policy before 15 March 
2022. Great Lakes wasnt the intermediary that sold Mr M his policy  and so didnt give him this information. For that reason, I dont hold Great Lakes accountable for the actions of 
another party. And so, this point doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman