DRN-3729460
The complaint
Mrs M has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (C&G) 
has unreasonably rejected her claim for treatment for her dog. 
What happened
Mrs M adopted her pet dog, who Ill refer to as R, on 20 September 2019. A pre-adoption 
veterinary history wasnt available, so before Mrs M adopted her and insured her with C&G, 
R underwent a complete health check. This showed she was free of any issues. The owner 
of the agency from which R was adopted has also confirmed that R had no ear problems 
prior to coming into rescue and her adoption by Mrs M.
On 27 January 2022, Mrs M took R to the vet to investigate a lump that that had developed 
on her ear. It was diagnosed as a polyp which could be allergy related. R underwent a 
procedure on 18 February 2022 to remove the polyp. 
When Mrs M claimed for the cost of Rs treatment from C&G, it rejected the claim. It referred 
to the following terms from Mrs Ms policy:
Insurance Product Information Document
What is not insured?
Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition
Policy Definitions
Pre-Existing Condition Means any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or 
Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
Veterinary Fees
What is not insured?
 Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing Condition:
 Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that showed Clinical Signs or Symptoms 
before Your Policy Start Date or within the Waiting Period.
So C&G rejected Mrs Ms claim on the ground that Rs ear condition was pre-existing at the 
inception of Mrs Ms policy on 1 August 2019 in that R had had an ear polyp or shown 
clinical signs and symptoms of ear issues before that date. It referred to an entry in Rs 
medical notes on 27 January 2022 which stated:  Rescue dog has had polyps and chronic 
ear issues in the past.
It says that if it had been aware of this history when the policy was taken out, it wouldve 
applied the following exclusions, which it applied retrospectively from the 2021 renewal date:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to The Ears with effect from 01 August 
2021."
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Skin tags, Polyps, Papilloma's with effect 
from 01 August 2021."
It refers to its right to do so by reference to the following policy term:
The following exclusions apply to the whole of this Policy. We will not pay claims for 
any of the following reasons:
 If We are made aware of any Pre-existing Conditions at the time of a claim, these 
Pre-Existing Conditions will not be covered and We reserve the right add a relevant 
endorsement(s) to Your Policy in respect of these Pre-Existing Conditions.
Mrs M brought her complaint to this service. Shes concerned about having to cover the cost 
of Rs treatment and also the difficulty she might have in now insuring R elsewhere. She 
wants C&G to pay her claim and to remove the exclusions its imposed.
Our investigators view was that he didnt think C&G had acted fairly in declining Mrs Ms 
claim. He didnt find any medical history that confirmed that R had an ear polyp or signs or 
symptoms of one prior to the inception of the policy on 1 August 2019. He suggested that B 
remove the exclusions it had applied and settle Mrs Ms claim with interest.
C&G doesnt accept our investigators view. It repeated that it relies on the vets statement 
that Around Christmas lump has developed on left ear. Rescue dog has had polyps and 
chronic ear issues in the past. Its requested that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. Its therefore been referred to me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
I agree with our investigators view that the reference in the vets notes to "Rescue dog has 
had polyps and chronic ear issues in the past provides insufficient evidence that even if 
there were ear issues in the past, these related to the same ear and that signs and 
symptoms of these were present prior to inception of the policy on 1 August 2019. 
The vet provides no basis for this statement. There are no veterinary notes prior to 1 August 
2019 that provide evidence of R having had any ear polyps or displaying signs and 
symptoms of ear issues before that date. Such evidence is necessary to support the 
presence of a pre-existing condition.
I also consider it unlikely that if R had shown clinical signs or symptoms of chronic ear issues 
before August 2019, (thereby evidencing a pre-existing condition), these didnt manifest 
themselves again until around Christmas 2021 when the lump was noticed on Rs left ear.
In the absence of any medical records for R existing before 24 April 2019, the only people 
who would be aware of any issues with Rs ears before that time would be Mrs M and the 
rescue centre, both of whom say there were none.
I therefore consider that C&G has failed to satisfy the burden that is upon it to prove that the 
exclusions it relies upon are applicable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited:1. to remove the existing exclusions relating to Rs ears from Mrs Ms policy and to 
settle her claim subject to the other terms and conditions of her policy;
2. if Mrs M has already paid her vet, to reimburse to her the sum so paid with interest 
thereon at the simple rate of 8% from the date she paid her vet to the date payment 
is made to her;
If it considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate;
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman