DRN-3321197
The complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) (Amex) acted
unfairly when it declined a claim he brought under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
1974 (CCA).
What happened
On 20 September 2020 Mr S purchased a bike from a retailer that Ill call H. The original
price was nearly £1,400 and Mr S negotiated a discount of £400 (because the bike had been
ordered by a third party who no longer wanted it). Mr S inspected the bike - which was
assembled in store. And he agreed to make the purchase if H would disassemble the bike
and pack it in a box with specific dimensions  because he wanted to ship it abroad.
H agreed but Mr S found the box was too big when he went to collect it on 6 October 2020.
The bike was re-packaged in a smaller box and Mr S took it away. When he got home he
decided to check the contents and discovered the bike was damaged in several places - the
front and back mudguards were dented, the leather saddle was marked, the mudguard
attachment was bent and the rim was scratched. Mr S thought this probably happened when
the bike was re-packed - as too much force was applied - and he emailed H the following
day asking for a partial refund.
H responded about a week later. It said the bike was in pristine condition when it left the
shop, it wasnt responsible if something happened after that and, given the bike had already
been discounted over Hs maximum discount limit, no further discount was possible. Mr S
paid for the bike using his Amex credit card so he got in touch with Amex the same month
and raised a section 75 claim. He wanted a refund of £500  which he estimated was the
likely cost of replacement parts.
Amex responded the following June. It accepted the bike was damaged but didnt think there
was enough evidence to establish the cause and declined Mr Ss claim. Mr S was unhappy
with this response and he referred the matter to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things and recommended the complaint should be
upheld. She was satisfied that H agreed to re-package the bike. And, given how soon after
collection Mr S reported the damage, it was probably caused by H. She thought it was fair
that Mr S should receive a refund but he should only have 10% of the original price back 
as the damage looked mainly cosmetic and didnt affect use. She also thought Amex should
pay Mr S £100 compensation for poor service and distress and inconvenience.
Mr S accepted the investigators recommendations but Amex disagreed. Amex made fairly
detailed submissions over several items of correspondence. In summary, it said:-
the burden of proof lies with Mr S and he didnt provide enough documentation to
validate his claim - he supplied photos of the bike, receipts for purchase and
collection (with the date missing), confirmation of a flight booking and emails to and
from H only;
the receipts prove Mr S purchased a bike and collected it on an unknown date, Mr S
hasnt provided any documentation to show that H agreed to repackage the bike and,
even if he did, this would not validate his claim;
the second receipt is missing the date of collection and, even if it did contain a date
that matched the date the email was sent, this doesnt prove the true condition of the
bike when it left the shop - the photos verify damage was present but not when or
how it occurred;
emails confirm that H fully investigated and found the bike left the shop in good order
so its more likely the damage happened in transit to the destination abroad  and
Hs terms and conditions make it clear that H isnt responsible for events outside its 
control;
documentation provided now was not supplied when the Section 75 claim was made
to enable Amex to properly assess the claim, if this had been provided at the time,
it's is possible a different outcome would have been reached and its not fair to
require Amex to compensate Mr S for his own failings.
Amex acknowledged there was delay in concluding the matter but says it had a large influx
of claims at the time due to the pandemic - and offered to pay Mr S £50 compensation.
Having considered the evidence available, I was minded to uphold this complaint but my 
reasons werent quite the same as the investigators. I issued a provisional decision on 1 
February 2022 to let the parties see my provisional conclusions and make further 
submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final decision. Ive set out below what I 
decided provisionally  and why  and this forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S brings this complaint to our service under section 75 because he paid H using his
Amex card. Section 75 provides that a borrower may be able to bring an equal claim under
an agreement with a supplier against a credit provider - where theres been a breach of
contract or misrepresentation - in very specific circumstances. One of section 75s strict
requirements is that a valid debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) link must exist. There seems to
be no dispute that the necessary relationship was in place between Amex, Mr S and H here.
I dont apply the law but I am obliged to take relevant law into account when I make my
decision. And my role here is to look into Amexs response to Mr Ss complaint.
Im satisfied that H was required (under the Consumer Rights Act 2015) to provide goods of
satisfactory quality - and carry out any services provided with reasonable skill and care. Mr S
says there was a breach of contract because the bike that H supplied was damaged. H
doesnt dispute theres damage but H and Mr S disagree about how and/or when this
occurred. 
In cases like this, where evidence inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
H hasnt disputed the circumstances around the sale of this bike and the collection
arrangements, as far as I can see. So, Im satisfied that Mr S agreed to the purchase on the
basis that H would disassemble and then pack the bike in a box of dimensions that he
specified. And H then agreed to re-pack the bike  because the original package wasnt the
right size - when Mr S came to collect it.
Im satisfied that Mr S emailed H on 7 October 2020 to say that hed collected the bike the
day before and he found it was damaged when he got it home. H takes no issue with thetimeline that Mr S has provided and, given the specific nature of the damage (which is not
disputed to be present), I think this is unlikely to have occurred in the process of Mr S
getting the package home.
I appreciate H says a thorough investigation was undertaken and it was satisfied that the
bike left the shop in pristine condition. But, I havent seen any evidence from that
investigation - such as statements from staff involved at the time. I can see H suggested to 
Amex (in correspondence) that the bike could have been damaged in freight on the way to 
its ultimate destination abroad. But, I find that unlikely - because Mr S reported the damage 
on 7 October 2020 and he supplied evidence that the flight he was going to ship the bike on 
was not until 4 November 2020.
I think the damage present seems to be consistent with the sort of damage that might occur
during the course of re-packing the bike into a smaller box. And, based on the evidence I
have at the moment - taking into account the nature of the damage and the timeline of
events, in particular - I think its more likely than this is probably how the damage occurred.
For the avoidance of any doubt, I have considered Hs terms and conditions (which I have no
reason to think were not incorporated) and I dont think they assist H in these circumstances.
As far as I can see, H agreed to provide the re-packing service as part of the sale
transaction. On balance, Im minded to find its more likely than not this service wasnt
carried out with due skill and care  the result of which is Mr S was supplied with a damaged
bike. So, on the current information, Im inclined to conclude that there was a breach of 
contract here. And Ive gone on to consider what, if anything, Amex should do to put things 
right.
There seems to be no dispute about the nature of the damage thats present. Ive considered
photographs that Mr S supplied. Like the investigator, I think this looks fairly cosmetic and
unlikely to interfere with the bikes overall function. I accept however this is not the bike that
Mr S paid for  and I think he probably wouldnt have agreed to buy the bike with this
damage present for the price he paid. Mr S has indicated that he would like to receive a
refund. I think that sounds reasonable in the circumstances. And Im minded to agree with
the investigator that a refund of £140 seems fair overall.
It looks as if Mr S experienced some inconvenience and upset as a result of being supplied
with this damaged bike. I think Amex accepts that  given it has offered already to pay him
£50 compensation. I dont think thats quite enough in the circumstances, however. And Im
minded to find it is fair and reasonable for Amex to pay Mr S £100 compensation for all the
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of being supplied with this damaged
bike.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional findings and let me have any new evidence or 
comments by 22 February 2022 and Id consider all the evidence available after that and 
make my final decision.
Amex accepts my provisional decision and has nothing further to add. Mr S hasnt replied or 
raised any objection to my provisional findings. And I see no reasonable grounds to depart 
from my provisional conclusions. 
For the reasons set out above, I remain of the view that Amex should pay Mr S £140 by way of a refund and £100 for associated distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
My decision is I uphold this complaint and find that American Express Services Europe 
Limited should provide a refund of £140 and pay Mr S £100 for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman