DRN-2905580
The complaint
Mr O complains that his motor insurance broker, First Premium Direct Ltd (First Premium), 
failed to deal with things properly and he ended up with no insurance and his car was 
seized.
What happened
Mr O had motor insurance arranged via First Premium. A few months after the policy 
renewed his car was seized by the police for having no insurance. Mr O didnt understand 
why he had no insurance and complained to First Premium. He didnt get a response so he 
complained to this service. Mr O wanted First Premium to remove a cancellation marker 
from his records, re-instate his no claims discount, and compensate him for lost earnings 
when he couldnt work due to not having his car.
Our investigator upheld Mr Os complaint. Our investigator contacted First Premium who 
accepted it was at fault for what happened and offered to compensate Mr O. However First 
Premium then failed to reply to emails from Mr O and our investigator.
Because our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint informally, he said that First 
Premium should ensure that any cancellation marker on Mr Os records was removed and 
his no claims discount was reinstated. Our investigator also said First Premium should 
reimburse Mr O for not being able to work (subject to him providing evidence of what he lost) 
and pay him £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience. He said this decision was 
based on the limited information available to him and he would consider any new information 
provided by First Premium. 
Our investigator sent his view to First Premium by email but had no response. A later email 
was returned as undeliverable. Our investigator has been unable to contact First Premium 
by other means, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Os complaint. Ill explain why.
First Premium told our investigator -
Having looked into Mr Os complaint. It is fully warranted and totally our member of staffs 
fault so I will do what I have to do to put this right and have some faith restored.
I have messaged Mr O today regarding how much out of pocket he actually is and upon 
return email I will issue final response accepting the complaint with a compensation claim as 
well.
Our investigator tried to resolve things between First Premium and Mr O. But First Premium 
stopped replying. So our investigator contacted the underwriter of the policy. The underwriter 
explained that the insurer that provided the policy had needed proof of Mr Os address and 
asked First Premium to get it. Despite chasing several times, the insurer didnt receive this 
information. The insurer asked a final time, and told First Premium the policy would be 
cancelled if the information wasnt received. There was again no response from First 
Premium so the insurer wrote to Mr O saying the proof of address hadnt been received and 
the policy would be cancelled in seven days time. Mr O says this was the first he knew of 
any problem, and he sent the proof of address to First Premium. First Premium sent the 
document on to the insurer, but unfortunately it wasnt acceptable. Although the insurer told 
First Premium this, no other proof was received so the policy was cancelled. Mr O says he 
wasnt aware of this and continued to drive his car until it was seized by the police.
Mr O had the distressing experience of having his car seized by the police for being 
uninsured. Hes experienced a great deal of inconvenience trying to sort things out with First 
Premium and complaining to this service. Its taken far longer than it should have to sort all 
this out because of the lack of communication from First Premium.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, the complaint is upheld. I require First Premium Direct Ltd to 
ensure that any cancellation marker on Mr Os records is removed and his no claims 
discount reinstated. I require First Premium Direct Ltd to pay Mr O £250 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience. I also require First Premium Direct Ltd to reimburse Mr O for his 
reasonable loss of earnings once he provides reasonable evidence to support this. 
First Premium Direct Ltd must also pay interest on the compensation for loss of earnings 
from the date of the loss to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If First Premium Direct Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr O a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2021.
 
Sarah Baalham
Ombudsman