DRN-3155166
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Lloyds Bank Plc:
lent to her irresponsibly, causing her to get into financial difficulties;
turned down her application for a debt consolidation loan, despite her being in a 
better financial position than when the previous loans were agreed;
offered her another loan instead, which wasnt affordable for her.
What happened
In August 2014 Mrs L took out a £15,000 loan with Lloyds, account number xxxx6751, 
repayable over 60 months. Ill refer to this as loan 1. In March 2017 she took out a £12,000 
loan, account number xxxx6578, repayable over 48 months. Ill refer to this as loan 2.
Mrs L says she asked Lloyds for a debt consolidation loan in October 2019 - but that she 
was told this was unaffordable for her. She says shed been in a much worse financial 
position when Lloyds had granted loans 1 and 2. She says the second high-value loan was 
granted online in the space of 20 minutes without any contact or interaction. She feels it was 
obvious that more money shouldnt have been made available to her due to the outstanding 
commitments on her credit file. 
In December 2019 Mrs L told Lloyds she was having financial difficulties and asked for help. 
As a result, in March 2020 they agreed to refinance the amounts she owed on loan 2 and 
her overdraft. Ill refer to this refinance agreement as loan 3. Mrs L feels she was pushed 
into paying even more interest by spreading her debt over seven years, instead of the two 
years shed had left on her previous agreement. 
Mrs L complained that the last two loans shed been given had been unaffordable. Lloyds 
disagreed, but they acknowledged thered been delays in addressing her complaint. They 
credited £75 to her account for this. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and set out her initial assessment of the 
case. She didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly by approving Mrs Ls loans in 2014 and 
2017, because she was satisfied that theyd carried out adequate checks on both occasions. 
And she didnt think theyd done anything wrong by declining Mrs Ls loan application in 
October 2019. The investigator initially didnt consider the changes made in March 2020 to 
have been unfair, because Lloyds had agreed to restructure Mrs Ls current loan and reduce 
the monthly payments instead of lending to her again.
Mrs L said our investigator had got this wrong  and that shed in fact signed up to a new 
loan agreement in March 2020. After looking at more evidence from both parties, our 
investigator issued a second view of the case. She said she thought the new loan agreed in 
March 2020 was unaffordable  and that Lloyds wouldve realised this if theyd completed 
proportionate checks. She thought Lloyds should refund the interest and any fees paid on 
that loan plus 8% interest from the date of payment. And that they should remove any 
adverse information about this agreement from Mrs Ls credit file. 
Lloyds said the investigators original view had been correct. They said no new money had 
been lent to Mrs L in March 2020  the loan was restructured to reduce her outgoings by 
paying off her loan and overdraft, leaving her with one lower monthly payment that would 
save her over £200 per month. They said Mrs L wouldve been in a considerably worse 
financial position if they hadnt done this. They felt the fact that shed made every monthly 
payment on time so far further confirmed that the loan theyd given her in March 2020 was 
affordable for her and had helped her during her financial difficulties. They asked for an 
ombudsman to review the case.
My provisional decision
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance for lenders to follow. 
These can be found in their Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Ive reviewed what this 
required Lloyds to do before granting Mrs Ls loan applications. 
Before granting each loan, Lloyds were required to carry out a creditworthiness assessment. 
This meant carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that Mrs 
L would be able to make repayments in a sustainable way. These checks werent just about 
how likely it was that theyd get their money back  they had to focus on whether the 
repayments would adversely affect Mrs Ls financial situation.
There was no set list of checks that Lloyds had to complete, but they had to make sure the 
checks they completed were proportionate in the circumstances. There were a number of 
factors that might affect how extensive these checks needed to be, such as the type and 
amount of credit, the customers financial position, their credit history and other financial 
commitments.
 
Lloyds say theyre a responsible lender and consider each application for borrowing 
carefully. Theyve told us that their computerised decisioning system allocates points to each 
piece of relevant information, including credit reference agency data, to produce a score. 
They say this system assesses all the relevant information in a matter of seconds and that 
each application is accepted, declined or referred for further review according to the total 
score reached. 
Lloyds have provided copies of the information Mrs L gave in each application. Theyve told 
us that their decisioning system wouldve used credit reference agency data as a guide to 
how shed handled her finances in the past. Ive considered the checks they carried out for 
each loan.
Loan 1: granted in August 2014 (account number xxxx6751)
Lloyds records show that Mrs L applied for this £15,000 loan over the phone, repayable over 
60 months. She told them this was to pay for a wedding. She declared her monthly income 
to have been £1,394. I can see that she was asked about her existing financial commitments 
and other expenditure. Based on the information Mrs L provided, after making the required 
repayment for this loan as well as the rest of her monthly expenditure, I calculate that shed 
be left with just under £264 each month. 
Lloyds say they arent required by law, good banking practice or current regulations to obtain 
proof of income for unsecured loans - and that it isnt standard industry practice to do so. They say they rely on customers to provide accurate information about their income and 
expenditure, as theyre best placed to know their circumstances. But the guidance set out at 
CONC 5.3.1 says that, if income or expenditure is taken into account as part of a 
creditworthiness assessment, its generally not sufficient for a lender to rely solely on what 
the customer has told them. I find this to be particularly relevant for larger loans requiring 
repayments over a number of years, as in this case. 
Lloyds have told us that the income Mrs L declared was in line with her current account 
activity at the time. Theyve shown us copies of her current account statements. Ive seen 
that her income varied each month  and that the figure of £1,394 represented an average of 
her salary in the two months before her application. Taking this additional information into 
account, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for Lloyds to rely on the information Mrs L 
provided in her application for this loan. 
Lloyds have told us that they also used credit reference agency information as part of their 
creditworthiness assessment, but they no longer hold this data due to the length of time 
thats elapsed. Ive reviewed Mrs Ls account statements, together with the details shes 
provided about other accounts she held, to see whether her credit file was likely to have 
recorded her as being in default or arears at the time. 
Mrs Ls current account statements show that, in the six months leading up to her loan 
application, she was making regular use of her overdraft facility. But she stayed well within 
her approved overdraft limit, and her salary put her account back into credit each month. So, 
I dont think this alone shouldve given Lloyds cause for concern. And Ive seen nothing to 
suggest shed missed payments or got into arrears on any other accounts.
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, Im satisfied that Lloyds carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before granting this loan. And I havent seen anything in the 
information those checks revealed that shouldve given them cause for concern about Mrs 
Ls ability to make repayments in a sustainable way. So, I cant say Lloyds did anything 
wrong by approving this loan application.
Loan 2: granted in March 2017 (account number xxxx6578)
In March 2017 Mrs L applied online for another relatively large loan of £12,000, repayable in 
48 monthly instalments of £309.76. Lloyds application record doesnt include any 
information about what this loan was for. 
Lloyds say that, as Mrs L made the decision to apply online and chose not to discuss her 
finances with a member of staff, they assume shed considered how much she wanted to 
borrow and how much she could afford to repay. I dont consider this approach to be 
consistent with Lloyds regulatory obligations. CONC 5.2.2 made it very clear that, before 
entering into any loan agreement, the lender had to carry out their own assessment of the 
potential for the repayments to adversely affect the customers financial situation, taking into 
account the information theyre aware of at the time the application is made.
In her application, Mrs L declared her income to be £1,400 per month. Lloyds say credit 
reference agency data showed she had other credit commitments totalling £578 per month - 
and that theyd used statistical data to estimate her expenditure on essential living costs to 
be £393 per month. Theyve told us that Mrs L declared her housing costs to be zero. And 
on that basis, they concluded that this loan was affordable for her. Based on the evidence 
Ive seen, Im not persuaded that this was the case. Ill explain why I say this.
Ive reviewed the record of Mrs Ls application for this loan in detail. Theres a section 
entitled Expenditure, which allows for a breakdown of the customers monthly expenditure by type, amount and remaining balance. That section simply says: no data exists. 
Underneath this is a section entitled Other Finance, showing the following information:
Other annual income: £0 Monthly mortgage rent £0
Monthly commitments: £0 Total other major: £0 
At the bottom of this section are the words Commitments Monthly, followed by a colon. Id 
expect this field to display the total of the customers existing monthly finance commitments. 
But this field is blank. 
Mrs L clearly did have other financial commitments  the credit reference agency data that 
Lloyds had obtained showed these totalled £578 per month. Based on what Ive seen so far, 
I think it most likely that Mrs L hadnt entered any information at all as to her monthly 
expenditure and other financial commitments. And for that reason, I dont think it was 
reasonable for Lloyds to assume her housing costs to be zero.
Although Mrs L didnt provide any expenditure information in this application, Lloyds held 
details of the monthly expenditure shed declared in her previous loan application. This 
indicated that she was likely to have had less than £264 per month to spare. Bearing in mind 
this was a relatively large loan - and that Mrs L would have to keep up the repayments for 
four years - Id expect Lloyds to look more closely at her financial situation before deciding 
repayments of £309.76 per month were sustainable for her.
Ive also looked at the information that was available to Lloyds in Mrs Ls current account 
statements. Her monthly income appears to have increased very slightly  in the two months 
before her loan application her average salary was £1,467. But in the six months leading up 
to this application Mrs Ls statements show that her current account was nearly always 
overdrawn. During that period, I saw her account in credit on only one occasion, lasting less 
than four days. The day before her application her account was overdrawn by more than 
£1,900 against her approved overdraft facility of £2,250.
For these reasons, Im not satisfied that Lloyds carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before granting this loan. Based on the available evidence, Im unable to see how an 
additional monthly payment of £309.76 couldve been considered affordable for Mrs L. 
Request for a loan to consolidate debts in October 2019
Lloyds customer records say Mrs L visited a branch on 29 October 2019 to request a 
£10,000 debt consolidation loan. Ive seen evidence that they offered her support from their 
specialist team to go through her income and expenditure with her - but she declined. Based 
on the evidence Ive seen, Im unable to say they did anything wrong here. 
Loan 3: Refinance agreement made in February 2020 (account number xxxx4221)
Having reviewed the account notes Lloyds held for Mrs L, I can see she called them in April 
2019 to ask for help with her loan payments. I dont think this shouldve given Lloyds cause 
for concern, because she said this was a one-off problem that had only arisen because her 
husband had changed job, meaning hed be paid on a different date. Mrs L requested a debt 
consolidation loan in October 2019. Five weeks later she contacted them again to say she 
was having financial difficulties - and asked for help.
Lloyds say they agreed to restructure Mrs Ls existing borrowing  paying off the loan ending 
xxx5678 and the £1,200 overdraft on her current account. The Lending Code says that, 
when customers are struggling to make repayments, the business should do what it can to 
help them deal with what they owe, which may include making new arrangements about how 
theyll pay off the debt. The Code goes on to say the lender should ensure the customer is left with enough money to pay day-to-day expenses. So, I wouldnt necessarily consider it 
unfair of Lloyds to refinance Mrs Ls debts with a new agreement that reduced her monthly 
payments, provided theyd explored whether this was in her best interests and affordable for 
her.
Mrs L is unhappy that this agreement was for seven years  much longer than her previous 
loan. Id expect Lloyds to satisfy themselves that the repayments would be sustainable for 
Mrs L over that length of time. She says she went through her income and expenditure with 
them. And that, even though theyd worked out that shed be left with only £15 per month 
after bills - they nevertheless agreed to give her the new loan as long as she used it to pay 
off her Lloyds overdraft. 
Lloyds havent provided the recording of that telephone conversation with Mrs L, or the detail 
of what expenses were taken into consideration. Theyve provided a brief summary of the 
conversation, which states that the income and expenditure calculation found Mrs L had 
£116.09 left each month after payment of her living expenses. So, after making the monthly 
payment of £100.21 in accordance with the terms of the refinance agreement, I calculate 
that Mrs L would be left with £15.88. I consider this to be in line with her recollection of the 
conversation.
Mrs L has told us that this calculation didnt include the cost of food. In the absence of any 
further evidence, Im minded to uphold her complaint that Lloyds treated her unfairly by 
refinancing her existing debts in this way, because Im not persuaded that this agreement left 
her with enough money to pay for day-to-day living expenses.
Putting things right
Mrs L says shes struggled for years to ensure she never missed a payment on these loans 
 using her overdraft, high-interest loans and racking up debt on utilities and priority bills. 
She says her outgoings were hundreds of pounds more than her income. And that this 
situation led to her husband defaulting on numerous credit cards, which he was using to pay 
their living expenses whilst Mrs L was making payments towards the loans in her name. 
Ive thought about how Mrs L used the money, and her current financial situation. I dont 
think her circumstances suggest it wouldnt be fair for her to have to repay the money she 
borrowed from Lloyds. But the repayment should be restructured in a sustainable way that 
doesnt cause her undue hardship. In my view this should include waiving interest and 
charges, backdated to the start of loans 2 and 3 respectively. And I think Lloyds should 
remove any adverse information about these two loans from her credit file. 
I said I was minded to direct Lloyds to:
Refund all interest and charges Mrs L paid as a result of loan 2 (xxxx6578);
Remove all interest and charges applied to loan 3 (xxxx4221) from the outset. The 
refunded interest and charges for loans 2 and 3, together with the payments Mrs L 
has made, should be deducted from the £6,300 originally lent under the refinance 
agreement, to arrive at a new starting balance;
Restructure the repayments on the outstanding amount Mrs L owes in a way that she 
can sustainably afford to pay, taking into account her current income and 
expenditure;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ls credit file in respect of 
accounts xxxx6578 and xxxx4221 (loans 2 and 3).
I invited both parties to send any further information or comments theyd like me to consider.Responses to my provisional decision
Lloyds said they had nothing further to add. Mrs L responded, asking whether Lloyds should 
pay 8% interest on any interest and charges to be refunded to her. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information in response to my provisional findings, 
I see no reason to depart from them. But Ill clarify the point Mrs L has raised as to whether 
interest should be paid on the amount to be refunded.
Sometimes the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges applied to one or more loans
means theres no longer an outstanding balance. In those circumstances wed be likely to 
direct the business to refund any overpayment the customer has made, plus 8% simple 
interest.
Lloyds are entitled to offset any refund of interest, fees and charges for loans 2 and 3 
against the debt Mrs L owes. Although this will have the effect of reducing her debt, therell 
still be an outstanding balance that shell need to repay. For this reason, an award of interest 
isnt appropriate in this case.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Lloyds Bank Plc to:
Refund all interest and charges Mrs L paid as a result of loan 2 (xxxx6578);
Remove all interest and charges applied to loan 3 (xxxx4221) from the outset; 
Deduct the refunded interest and charges for loans 2 and 3, together with the 
payments Mrs L has made, from the £6,300 originally lent under the refinance 
agreement, to arrive at a new starting balance;
Restructure the repayments on the outstanding amount Mrs L owes in a way that she 
can sustainably afford to pay, taking into account her current income and 
expenditure;
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ls credit file in respect of 
accounts xxxx6578 and xxxx4221 (loans 2 and 3).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman