DRN-4071492
Complaint
Mr B has complained about a personal loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to him. 
He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr B with a loan for £1,000.00 in June 2021. This loan had an APR 
of 44.9% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£1,324.98, including interest, fees and charges of £324.28, was due to be repaid in 18 
monthly instalments of just under £75. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Bs complaint and she thought that 118 118 Money 
ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr B with his loan. So she thought that 
Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. 
118 118 Money didnt respond to our adjudicators assessment. So the case was passed to 
an ombudsman for a final decision as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Bs complaint. 
Having carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain 
why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr B could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Given the relatively low monthly repayments due on this loan, I can understand why 118 118 
Money may believe that a relatively light touch assessment of affordability would have been 
proportionate given the circumstances here.
However, Im concerned that 118 118 Moneys own checks showed that Mr B was already 
significantly indebted and a significant proportion of his monthly income was already being 
taken up by repayments to existing credit commitments. 
Furthermore, the credit checks also showed that Mr B had only recently taken out a loan in 
the lead up to this application. I think that 118 118 Money ought to have been concerned as 
to why Mr B had an apparent want or need for so much credit in a relatively short period of 
time. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr B has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Bs financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 
118 Money, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Bs version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Bs existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. 
And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not have 
shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr B. As 118 118 Money 
provided Mr B with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. 
Mr B ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr B lost out because of what 118 118 Money did wrong and that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr B
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Mr B by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr B paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr B to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about this loan from Mr Bs 
credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman