DRN-2329651
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money has placed a late 
payment marker on her credit file, although she had understood it had given her time to pay, 
and she said it was giving confusing messages about how much she owed. 
What happened
Mrs A said that after a previous complaint about Virgin was dealt with, she just wanted to 
pay off the whole balance on her card, and close it. But she said that Virgin had been very 
difficult to contact on the phone. And it had given her conflicting information about how much 
she needed to pay to clear her debt. She said it took a long time for Virgin to decide how 
much she owed, and even after shed cleared the balance it was still asking for payment. 
Mrs A said Virgin had now recorded a mark against her credit rating. She didnt think that 
was fair. She said if Virgins service had been better, and she hadnt been misinformed, then 
there wouldnt have been a late payment. She wanted Virgin to remove this mark, but it had 
said no. She also wanted compensation for the poor service she said Virgin had provided.
Virgin said that Mrs As account was unlocked on 23 March, after a previous complaint. On 
the same call, she was passed through to someone who could take a payment. Payment 
was due on 24 March, but Mrs A experienced a long delay and decided not to wait on the 
call to make her payment. 
Virgin said Mrs A didnt ring back to make her payment until 30 March. By that time, her 
payment was already late. She was told on that call how to make a payment from her bank, 
as Virgin couldnt take a payment over the phone large enough to clear the balance on her 
card. And Virgin said she was given the correct final balance to pay on this call.
Virgin said that Mrs A was told that a waiver of interest would be put on the card for the next 
month. But, importantly, it said it never told her that she had a month to make her payment. 
She didnt pay until 14 April. 
Virgin said it had applied a late payment marker to Mrs As credit file because her March 
payment was three weeks late. It felt this was justified, and it wouldnt take it off. But it said 
that it was sorry Mrs A had waited a long time for calls to be answered, so it would pay £25 
to make up for that.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said shed listened to the 
call Mrs A made on 30 March, and she thought that the advisor was clear that interest was 
being waived. Mrs A wasnt told she didnt need to make her minimum payment to the 
account. Our investigator said she had understood from the call that Mrs A was going to 
organise a transfer to pay off the balance of the card. But she didnt pay until 14 April. 
Our investigator said even if late payment charges had been refunded by Virgin, the entries 
on Mrs As credit file would stay. Virgin is required to report Mrs As payment history to credit 
reference agencies, and this reporting should correctly reflect any months where there were 
missed or late payments. Our investigator said she wouldnt ask Virgin to remove this. 
Our investigator said that Mrs A had received a letter which didnt reflect the amount owing 
on her card, but that was because the letter was issued before Mrs A had made her 
payment. So it was accurate when it was sent. And our investigator said that Mrs A was 
given the right balance to pay off her card in full when she rang Virgin. 
Our investigator thought that £25 was a reasonable amount to pay for long call queues. But 
she said that it remained Mrs As responsibility to make a payment, and she didnt have to 
speak to Virgin to do that. So our investigator didnt think Virgin had to do any more. 
Mrs A said that she still felt Virgin had been unfair. She said she hadnt cashed Virgins 
cheque for £25, because she didnt think it was a fair amount for the poor customer service 
shed received. 
Mrs A wanted to stress that she was willing to pay the full amount on 30 March, but was told 
she couldnt pay that on the call. She repeated that shed been given conflicting information 
about how much she owed. And she said shed understood she had been given a month to 
pay, so the person she spoke to couldnt have been clear enough in their communication, 
otherwise shed have paid. 
Mrs A said shed called a number of times but hadnt been able to get through in a 
reasonable amount of time. And the post she received was late. Mrs A said shed only been 
able to pay over the phone when her card was blocked, before her earlier complaint had 
been resolved. She felt shed made reasonable attempts to pay, so she still wanted the black 
mark on her credit file removed. 
Our investigator said she hadnt commented on what happened with Mrs As earlier 
complaint, that wasnt being considered as part of this case. But on this complaint, our 
investigator didnt change her mind.  
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mrs A says that on a call she made on 30 March, she had understood she was being given a 
grace period of a month to pay her card. Ive listened to that call, and I dont think thats what 
was said. And I do think she was given the right amount to pay on that call, if she wanted to 
clear her balance entirely. 
But I also think its worth noting here that even if I had agreed with Mrs A that shed been 
misled on this call somehow, that wouldnt have helped her in this case. Thats because Mrs 
A still needed to make a minimum payment each month while her card was open. Mrs As 
payment for her March statement was due on 24 March. So shed already missed the 
deadline for her minimum payment by almost a week, when she spoke to Virgin on 30 
March. And that means that Virgin was entitled to record a late payment on Mrs As account for that 
month. For that reason, I dont think Mrs As complaint about this should be upheld. I dont 
think Virgin has to remove this late payment marker from Mrs As credit file now.
Mrs A has also complained about the time it has taken to get through to Virgin on the phone. 
Virgin has paid Mrs A £25 for that, and I think that provides a fair and reasonable outcome to 
this part of Mrs As complaint. 
When Mrs A last spoke to our service she said she hadnt cashed this cheque. Because I 
think that payment is part of providing a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint, Ill 
award Mrs A this sum now. Ill also allow Virgin to offset any payment it has already made to 
Mrs A, which means that if Mrs A has cashed this cheque more recently, Virgin doesnt have 
to pay this amount twice.
My final decision
My final decision is that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must pay Mrs A £25. It 
can count any payment it has already made to Mrs A for this complaint, towards that award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman