DRN-2025007
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him for a transaction he didnt make or 
authorise.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr B tried to make a cash machine withdrawal from his Lloyds account. 
Mr B says he put his bank card into a cash machine and requested £100. But the machine 
didnt dispense any cash and instead displayed a message on the screen you cannot 
withdraw this amount - £505. Mr B says he then attempted a second withdrawal and 
requested £100 at the same machine. But again, these funds werent dispensed, and the 
machine displayed the same message. Mr B then made a branch withdrawal of £100 from 
his account.
Mr B told Lloyds that he hadnt received any money when hed tried on the first two 
occasions, but the bank said £500 had been debited from his account. The bank looked into 
Mr Bs complaint and said the evidence showed there was no discrepancy when they 
reviewed the information for the cash machine that day. And that the money was dispensed.
The bank also said that Mr B had tried to make two further withdrawals of £100 following the 
£500 transaction at a different cash machine close by. The bank said these transactions 
were declined as Mr B had reached his £500 daily withdrawal limit. And that following these 
declined transactions Mr B made a further withdrawal in branch for £100. So, Lloyds didnt 
refund Mr B £500.
Mr B was unhappy with this outcome and brought his complaint to this service where one of 
our investigators looked into things for him. The investigator reviewed the evidence provided 
by Lloyds and found that the information from the bank supported that the money was 
dispensed when Mr B had requested it. So, he didnt think itd be fair to ask Lloyds to refund 
Mr B £500. Mr B disagreed, he said hed forgot to mention hed used two different cash 
machines at the time before going inside the branch. But maintains he never received the 
£500.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking Lloyds to give Mr B the £500 he wants here. Ill explain 
why.
When someone tells us they didnt get the money they requested from a cash machine, we 
look at the evidence the bank provides. This includes information about whether the cash 
machine  where the disputed transaction took place - had the money it was expected to 
have in it at the end of the period under review. Essentially did it balance or was there more 
money in it than expected. If the latter is the case, this could suggest a customer didnt get 
the money they requested. 
Lloyds has provided evidence to show that the machine Mr B used balanced and there were 
no discrepancies. If there had been a malfunction with Mr Bs withdrawal, Id have expected 
there to be considerably more in the machine. But there wasnt a surplus of £500, which I 
would expect to see if the money hadnt been dispensed properly to Mr B. 
There were also successful transactions shortly before and after Mr Bs withdrawal here. So, 
the machine looks like it was operating without any problems. Theres nothing to suggest 
that a third party had interfered with the machine in any way.
Ive also looked at information Lloyds provided about the machines purge bin. As the 
investigator explained, a purge bin would hold funds that are retracted into the cash 
machine, for example when notes are not taken in time by a customer. The information 
shows there was £80 in the purge bin. But Ive also kept in mind that Mr B says he didnt 
receive any money from the machine. So, I cant say the £80 relates to Mr Bs transaction. 
Mr B says that when he tried to withdraw cash from the first machine it displayed the 
message you cannot withdraw this amount - £505. So, Ive reviewed the journal roll of 
the cash machine, which provides details of Mr Bs first transaction and whether there were 
any errors. Having done so, I have some bad news for Mr B. This does show that £500 was 
dispensed (24 x £20 and 2 x £10). And that these notes were taken from the machine within 
15 seconds of being presented. The journal roll doesnt show that an error message was 
displayed on the screen. So, having considered the matter carefully, and recognising this will 
be disappointing for Mr B I think it more likely than not that the machine was working 
correctly and that it dispensed the £500.
From looking at the evidence I can also see that Mr B used two different cash machines  
before going inside the branch. He requested £100 on each occasion, but as hed reached 
his daily limit, which was £500, these transactions were declined. Im not sure why Mr B 
didnt mention this to the investigator when he was explaining what had happened. Its 
possible he simply forgot. But although unusual, from looking at Mr Bs account statements, I 
can see that he had withdrawn £500 from cash machines on at least two occasions prior to 
January 2020.  And on one of these occasions this was followed by £100 withdrawals on the 
same day. So, I think its likely Mr B wanted to withdraw more money than he normally did  
which was £100 every few days. 
In summary, I cant rule the possibility that the cash machine was faulty but having looked at 
all the evidence I think on balance, thats unlikely. Its also unlikely that Mr B would have 
been the only customer affected by any fault, and Lloyds has provided evidence to show that 
there were no other reported problems. So, it wouldnt therefore be fair to ask Lloyds to 
refund Mr B.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Bs complaint against Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman