DRN-3882993
The complaint
Mr B complains about how HDI Global Specialty SE dealt with a claim he made on his pet 
insurance policy.
HDI are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of their appointed agents. As HDI have accepted they are accountable for the actions of their 
appointed agents, in my decision, any reference to HDI includes the actions of their 
appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr B and HDI. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr B had a life time pet insurance policy with HDI to cover his dog. The policy started on 3 
August 2021 and had a policy limit of £10,000, but also had a number of lower inner limits 
for specific treatments/procedures. 
In August 2022, Mr B contacted HDI to enquire about some tests/examinations that were 
required and how this would impact the policy limits. HDI say their agent gave incorrect 
information about which limit (the overall limit or inner limit) would be applicable. 
Mr B made a claim against his policy for an x-ray and subsequent cruciate ligament 
treatment. HDI paid out on some of the claim Mr B made, but not all of it. Mr B felt he was 
owed around another £1,000 and that both claims shouldve been treated as separate and 
not one claim. He raised a complaint with HDI as he felt hed been treated unfairly and the 
policy terms were unclear. They partially upheld Mr Bs complaint and offered to refund a 
£120 excess. 
As he remained unhappy, Mr B referred his complaint to our Service for an independent 
review. Our Investigator considered the complaint but didnt recommend that HDI needed to 
do anything further. He recommended that the £120 excess refund was sufficient. As Mr B 
didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
Have HDI fairly and reasonably considered the claim  in line with the policy terms?
Ive listened to a copy of a call recording from 8 August 2022 when Mr B contacted HDI. In 
that call, Mr B asked if x-rays would be covered and what the policy limit would be. Mr B 
further questioned the inner cruciate limit of £2,000 and the overall policy limit of £10,000 
and which x-rays would be deducted from. HDI accept that they initially gave Mr B incorrect 
information here and offered him £120 compensation. This equated to the cost of Mr Bs 
policy excess. I find this fair, reasonable and proportionate. 
In a further call, on 16 September 2022, Mr B questioned how the referral to another vets for 
treatment would impact any claim. It was confirmed two policy excesses would be payable. 
Mr B then referred to x-rays being excluded from the inner cruciate limit (£2,000). The 
adviser also clearly communicated that x-rays related to cruciate injuries would be deducted 
from the lower limit and not the £10,000 policy limit. Mr B then went ahead (as a responsible  
pet owner) to have the operation carried out. I dont hold HDI responsible for any loss that Mr 
B is now claiming.
Ive then considered the policy terms. Mr B argues that the terms werent made clear, but I 
dont agree. Any policy of this nature may name certain diagnostic tests (CT and MRI scans 
for example) but not others. This doesnt mean that anything not named will automatically 
not form part of the inner limit. 
I dont agree with Mr B that; By omitting x-rays from the cruciate injury inner limit
wording, it indicates to customers that x-rays do not contribute to the £2000 inner limit
for cruciate injuries. It remains that even if Mr B was of the opinion that x-rays would be 
covered under the overall policy limit - and not the inner cruciate limit, this was clarified 
during the call on 16 September 2022. 
The policy may not have defined associated costs, but a reasonable interpretation has been 
applied here. Ive also noted that Mr B has acknowledged that: 
CT scans, MRI scans and x-rays are commonly associated diagnostic 
imaging tools used to assess and identify issues in pets, [bold added for 
emphasis my Ombudsman]..
In any scenario, our Services remit doesnt extend to directing a business to amend policy 
terms. 
Ive also noted Mr Bs point about the x-rays being considered as a separate claim as they 
were exploratory - as it wasnt confirmed until after they were carried out that this was a 
cruciate injury. But again, I dont agree as the ultimate condition being claimed for is a 
cruciate injury  these tests confirmed it. 
In summary, I find that HDI have fairly considered this claim in-line with the policy terms and 
can fairly deduct the cost of the x-rays from the inner cruciate limit. I also find that the policy 
terms were clear, fair and not misleading.  
Itll disappoint Mr B, but my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or require HDI 
to do anything further here. My decision brings to an end our Services involvement in trying 
to informally resolve this dispute between him and HDI.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman