DRN-3271194
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy Barclays Bank UK PLC did not allow him access to his universal credit 
payment since he was overdrawn, and when he contacted the bank about this he was given 
conflicting information. Mr G thinks the compensation offered doesnt reflect the distress and 
worry caused.
What happened
On 2 June Mr G became overdrawn. Money was debited from his account following an 
investigation by Barclays into a disputed transaction raised by Mr G. Barclays had initially 
credited Mr Gs account while it carried out its investigation. Barclays didnt find in Mr Gs 
favour and so it debited the money from his account causing him to become overdrawn. 
The universal credit payment reached Mr Gs account on 8 June 2021. But Mr G says he 
was unable to withdraw the full amount due to the overdrawn balance. Mr G says he is 
entitled to the whole amount regardless of whether his account is overdrawn. 
Mr G says he spoke to various people at Barclays to try and resolve this but says he was 
ultimately told it wasnt possible for him to have access to the full amount. Mr G says this 
caused him a lot of stress since he was worried he wouldnt be able to pay his rent and 
would become homeless. Mr G says Barclays added to his anxiety by not following their own 
processes. 
Mr G wasnt happy and so raised a complaint. He says he had to beg on the streets and was 
worried he wouldnt be able to pay his rent. He says he explained this to Barclays but it didnt 
help.
Barclays accepted Mr G had been given different information from different people he spoke 
to. Barclays paid Mr G £50 by way of apology for the service issues raised. Mr G says even 
when Barclays approved the withdrawal and offered him the compensation it took several 
days to make the payment; when he had been assured it would take a day to reach his 
account. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the response hed received from Barclays. So he referred the matter 
to us. 
The investigator looked at the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator said while Mr G wasnt fairly treated when he was told he wasnt able to 
withdraw all of his universal credit payment, the compensation paid by Barclays was 
sufficient to reflect this. 
Mr G didnt agree. He thought the fact that he had been unable to access the remaining 
universal credit money for a week had had a significant impact on his wellbeing and mental 
health. So the complaint has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment 
to Mr G and I hope my reasoning below helps to explain why I have come to this decision.
I was sorry to see Mr G was experiencing financial problems. This must have been a very 
distressing situation to be in. And when Barclays initially told Mr G he was not able to access 
the full amount of his universal credit it would have been upsetting and frustrating for him. 
Barclays have accepted it was at fault and so theres no factual dispute here. When looking 
at this complaint I have considered whether the compensation paid to Mr G was sufficient for 
the trouble and upset caused. 
I understand the points Mr G has raised and have listened to telephone calls made to 
Barclays when considering this complaint. 
Mr G spoke to different people at Barclays in order to try and get access to his money. And 
he was told he was not able to when in fact he could access about 80% of the payment. And 
since Mr G was managing on a low income any limitation understandably caused financial 
stress. So I can see why Mr G feels the way he does. 
When Mr G was able to speak to the advisor who ultimately assisted him, he was given 
access to the money on the same day, which was seven days after the universal credit was 
first paid to him. Mr G was provided with information for the financial assistance team who 
would help him to set up a plan to repay the overdrawn amount, and a note was placed on 
his account to allow Mr G access to the money when he visited the branch later that day. 
Based on this I am satisfied Barclays took the necessary steps to correct the misinformation 
Mr G initially received. Barclays has accepted its service shortfalls and paid Mr G £50 in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused. 
Mr G says £50 isnt sufficient for what he has been through. While Mr G may not agree I am 
satisfied £50 is a reasonable amount of compensation here. I know Mr G will be 
disappointed with my decision And I appreciate this was a difficult and stressful time for him, 
especially when he has to manage on a limited income. But I think Barclays has done 
enough to reflect its errors. I say this because Mr G had access to the universal credit 
payment within seven days and although this was longer than he expected I think the matter 
was dealt with fairly swiftly once the error was realised. 
Mr G is also unhappy for the time it took for Barclays to pay the compensation after he was 
told he would be paid within 24 hours. 
I can see Mr G was offered compensation on 15 June 2021 and was told it would be paid 
straight into his account but it wasnt. Mr G says it took a number of days to reach his 
account and he had to chase Barclays. He received the compensation payment on 24 June 
2021. There was some delay in Mr G receiving the compensation, in part due to the initial 
payment being returned by the receiving bank, but overall I dont think the timescale was 
excessive. 
I am satisfied whilst Barclays gave Mr G incorrect information regarding access to his full 
universal credit payment, it has now compensated Mr G for it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I wont be asking Barclays Bank UK PLC to do any more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman