DRN-3629161
The complaint
The complaint in this case relates to the ad hoc administration charges that have been levied 
by Alltrust Services Limited (Alltrust). Mr A, Mr M and Mr Ds pension syndicate have been 
invoiced for work carried out in chasing a third party for an unpaid debt. 
Mr D is the lead complainant and has been dealing with this complaint on behalf of Mr A and 
Mr M. Given the charges have been levied for the work carried out of behalf of all three, the 
decision below predominantly refers to the syndicate rather than individuals. 
The syndicate state that the charges are not justified and should not have been levied.
What happened
The pension syndicate entered into a loan agreement with a third party in May 2015. This 
loan was meant to be secured on the third parties residential home and was initially due to 
be repaid two years later in May 2017. 
The loan was not repaid and in September 2017 Alltrust wrote to the borrower giving a new 
repayment date of November 2017. If the loan was not repaid at that time Alltrust confirmed 
legal action would be taken to recover the funds.
With no repayment forthcoming from the borrower, legal action commenced in June 2018 
when Alltrust instructed solicitors DJM.
Also, around this time, Alltrust registered a complaint with the solicitors used in 2015 to 
produce the loan and property charge documentation.
Following this Alltrust reduced the administration charges levied on the syndicates pensions 
by 50% and it was subsequently identified that the loan was not secured on the borrowers 
property. Alltrusts role in setting up the loan, and the issue around the loan not being 
secured on the borrowers property is the subject of a separate complaint and as such has 
not been considered in detail within this decision.
In July 2020 a Summary Judgement in favour of the syndicate was confirmed with the total 
amount payable by the borrower being detailed as around £116,000. This was made up of 
the original loan of £77,000, set up costs of £1,410, interest of around £20,000 and costs of 
around £18,500.
Following this there were several months of discussion between the syndicate, DJM and 
Alltrust, as well as the borrower and his family concerning how this debt should be repaid. 
Rather than wait and allow the borrower to sell the property in his own time, it was decided 
that an order of sale would be sought via the courts.
The sale was confirmed in June 2021 with the proceeds being around £214,000. Half of this 
amount  just over £107,000  was used to repay some of the borrowers debt to the 
syndicate with the funds being received on 2 August 2021.
On 29 October 2021 Alltrust issued the syndicate an invoice for the ad hoc administration 
undertaken in chasing the repayment of the debt. This invoice was for £5,000 plus VAT.
The syndicate complained to Alltrust stating that they did not consider the charges fair given 
the amount of work carried out by Alltrust in chasing the outstanding debt and their role in 
establishing the loan in the first place. In addition, it was noted that the charge had only been 
raised once Mr D had submitted his request to transfer his pension away from Alltrust. 
Alltrust investigated and rejected the complaint. As such the complaint was forwarded to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things and issued findings stating they did not believe Alltrust 
had acted inappropriately. 
The investigator noted that the Alltrust application form required policy holders to confirm 
that they agreed to pay fees as detailed in the Alltrust fee card and that this fee card 
showed ad-hoc administration fees were £180 per hour. Given the invoice was for £5,000 
(plus VAT) the investigator stated that the fee equated to around 28 hours worth of work and 
given the evidence on file, it was reasonable to conclude that Alltrust would have completed 
this level of additional administrative work over the time period in question. As such the 
investigator concluded the charges were reasonable.
Additionally, the investigator noted that given the unusual circumstances which had played 
out over an extended timeframe the fact Alltrust had not been able to provide a quote in 
advance of the work being undertaken was not unreasonable. Whilst this meant Alltrusts 
costs could not be included in the court judgement against the borrower, there had been 
insufficient equity in the borrowers home (once released) to repay the existing order in full 
and as such these fees would not have been recovered in any case.
Alltrust agreed with the findings issued however the syndicate did not. 
In response to the findings, the syndicate noted that the findings issued had not considered 
the fact that Alltrusts offer to reduce their ongoing costs by 50% was made when they 
realised their error in setting up the loan with the desired legal charge in place. Additionally, 
it was noted that the findings did not note that Alltrust had also agreed to cover 10% of 
ongoing legal costs in relation to the unpaid debt. 
In consideration of these points the investigator concluded that whilst Alltrust did reduce their 
ongoing loan administration charge  and that this was done around the time it was 
discovered the loan was not secured on the borrowers property - this did not merit a change 
in their findings. 
Whilst the timing of the reduction in the charge did coincide with the realisation that the loan 
had not been secured on the property, our investigator said there was no evidence that this 
was the reason the charges had been reduced. Rather, it could be explained by the fact that 
given the loan was not being repaid the usual administration tasks that would have been 
necessary (processing repayments, issuing paperwork etc) were no longer required and as 
such reducing the fee payable was reasonable at that time.
Additionally, whilst Alltrust had agreed to contribute to the legal costs incurred in chasing 
repayment of the debt, this had been done as part of an informal arrangement in order to 
prevent a complaint being progressed by the syndicate. The investigator stated that this was 
not an admission of liability on Alltrusts part and that as a business they were entitled to 
make a commercial decision to contribute to legal costs in order to prevent a complaint.Whilst Alltrust accepted the findings of our investigator the syndicate did not and as such the 
case was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I would like to note that this decision focusses solely on whether the Alltrust are 
entitled to invoice for any additional work carried out in pursuing the repayment / settlement 
of the debt owed to the syndicate from the borrower.  Alltrusts actions in setting up the loan 
has been covered in a separate decision and has not been commented on here.
 
The Alltrust pension application form states:
In return for these services to be provided by the Administrator, I agree to pay the 
charges detailed on the Alltrust SIPP Fee card 
The fee card itself details all of the charges that can be levied on the Alltrust Self Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP). Given the variety of investment options that the SIPP facilitates 
there are a number of charges that can be levied depending on how the SIPP is used. 
Ad Hoc Administration is included in the fee card as being up to £180 per hour with 
additional confirmation that the Fee is charged on completion of transaction and will 
normally be quoted in advance of work being undertaken.
Given the above I consider it clear that Alltrust were entitled to charge for any ad hoc 
additional administration required of them. I would also expect all members of the syndicate 
to be fully aware of the fees and charges that applied to their pensions, especially Mr D who 
was not only a policy holder but a regulated financial adviser who had introduced customers 
to Alltrust in the past.
As per the investigators findings I would also agree that given the time period over which 
this additional administration was required it is reasonable to conclude that this additional 
administration was significant enough to make the £5,000 (plus VAT) invoice reasonable.
In assessing the fee raised as reasonable I have considered the point that the invoice was 
only issued once a request to transfer away from Alltrust to a new pension provider was 
made, and as such the syndicate consider it a last revenue raising exercise prior to the 
external transfers being actioned. Whilst the invoice and transfer request did occur around 
the same time, I do not consider this sufficient to deem the raising of the invoice 
unreasonable.
The timing of the invoice also coincided with the resolution of the outstanding debt, coming 
roughly two months after funds were received from the borrowers house sale. It is not 
unreasonable therefore for Alltrust to invoice for work undertaken once the funds had been 
received.
In addition, even if the raising of the invoice was triggered by the requests for transfer away, 
I do not consider it would not be unusual for a business to undertake an audit of an account 
and ensure any and all fees were paid appropriately before a transfer away was actioned.
Mr D, on behalf of the syndicate has made several other points regarding this invoice. 
Firstly, that the additional work invoiced for was only required as a result of Alltrusts error in 
setting the loan up in the first place. As discussed above, this issue is the subject of a 
separate decision and as such will not be discussed here.The fact no quote for the additional work was provided before the invoice issued  with the 
fees also not being included in the summary judgement issued against the borrower  has 
also been considered. 
As per the investigators findings I accept that the fee card does state that a quote would 
normally be provided however I do not consider the sequence of events in this case to 
have been normal. Whilst the solicitors involved did quote for the work they anticipated being 
necessary, it is reasonable to state that they would have been much more familiar with the 
chain of events which were likely to unfold, and as such more able to provide an accurate 
estimate for their work.
Whilst this meant that the costs incurred by the DJM could be included in the summary 
judgement against the borrower whilst the fees payable to Alltrust could not be included, I do 
not believe this itself justifies my deeming these fees unreasonable.
Moving on to the fact that Alltrust reduced their ongoing loan administration charge and 
offered to contribute to the legal costs incurred by the syndicate I again agree with the 
outcomes reached by our investigator.
The fact that the loan administration charge was reduced is considered appropriate given the 
usual administrative tasks associated with such a loan were no longer required given the 
borrower was making no payments towards the debt. Whilst Alltrust were not required to 
reduce this charge doing so is considered fair with there being no evidence that this was an 
admission of fault on Alltrusts part.
With regard to Alltrusts contribution to the legal costs incurred in chasing the debt, this was 
done in discussion with the syndicate to informally resolve a complaint on the understanding 
that the contribution to the legal costs would prevent a complaint being progressed.
Businesses are entitled to try and resolve complaints informally in this way in order to 
conclude issues in a way agreed by all parties. In this case the offer to contribute to legal 
fees did not come with any admission of guilt or fault on Alltrusts part with the offer made 
before any investigation into the issues raised and subsequently revoked once the syndicate 
decided to pursue their complaint further. 
As per the investigators findings, Alltrusts offer is not evidence of any fault on their part and 
as such I see no reason to use this offer to suggest that Alltrust did not complete the 
additional administration for which they have invoiced nor that the invoice itself is unfair.
Overall, I have concluded that the file supports the fact that Alltrust did complete the 
additional administrative work which they invoiced for and that they are entitled to invoice 
accordingly.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr A, Mr D and Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
John Rogowski
Ombudsman