DRN-3429866
The complaint
Mr Q complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card 
account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr Q says he opened a Vanquis account in 2017. He says he had applied in the previous 12 
months for various loans and took out a number of other loans after the Vanquis account 
was opened. Mr Q says the lending was irresponsible and unaffordable. He says Vanquis 
should have realised that and that he had a County Court Judgement (CCJ) recorded 
against him. Mr Q would like all interest and charges refunded and any adverse information 
removed from his credit file.
Vanquis says the account was opened in May 2017 and the CCJ was recorded some two 
years before that date. It says it checked the application and calculated Mr Qs other debt at 
under £10,000 and that he managed other accounts appropriately. Vanquis says Mr Q told it 
he had an income of over £20,000 a year and it set a low credit limit of £500.
Mr Q brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator thought Vanquis carried out appropriate checks on the application and there 
were no signs of unaffordability at the time of the application. The investigator thought it had 
been about five years before the application that Mr Q had missed an account payment. And 
that Mr Qs financial position deteriorated after the Vanquis account was opened.
Mr Q doesnt accept that view and says he was using credit cards and loans to pay off other 
debts.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mr Q will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit card account providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate 
checks on any credit or loan application. Those checks will of course vary depending on the 
type and amount of the lending. This was an application for a credit facility rather than for 
example a loan or mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Vanquiss checks to have 
been as detailed as for that type of lending. But of course, checks still need to be carried out.
I can see that Mr Q applied for the Vanquis account in 2017 and declared an income of over 
£20,000. I can see that Vanquis checked Mr Qs credit file and calculated his other debt. I 
can also see that Vanquis checked Mr Qs other account management and looked at his 
past credit history. I think those checks showed Mr Q was managing other accounts 
appropriately and that it had been some years since adverse information had been recorded 
against him.
So, Im satisfied Vanquis did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr Qs 
application and that there were no factors present that ought to have led Vanquis to 
conclude the lending was unaffordable. I also think Vanquis approved a modest £500 credit 
limit. It follows that Im satisfied that on the face of it the lending facility was affordable, and 
that Vanquis didnt make a mistake by opening the account.
I appreciate Mr Q says he applied for a number of loans after the Vanquis account was 
opened. But I can only consider what Vanquis knew at the time or ought to know. I think it 
likely Mr Qs financial position deteriorated after that time, which is not something, I can fairly 
hold Vanquis responsible for knowing or anticipating. I also appreciate Mr Q says he was 
using loans and credit facilities to repay other debt. I cant see evidence from this account 
about such matters and think most of the spending on the Vanquis account took place 
abroad in 2017.
Overall, Im satisfied that Vanquis did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on Mr 
Qs credit card account application and that the lending was not unaffordable or 
irresponsible. It follows that I cant fairly order Vanquis refund any charges or interest and 
remove any adverse data from Mr Qs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman