DRN-2718248
The complaint
Ms A complains that Bamboo Limited irresponsibly provided her with loans which she 
says were unaffordable.
What happened
Bamboo provided Ms A with loans as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Term Monthly 
repaymentAPR
1 June 2018 £5,000 48
months£213.37 49.7%
2 September 2019 £4,000 60
months£130.18 34.9%
Our investigator assessed the complaint and recommended upholding it. He set out the 
steps Bamboo needed to take to put things right. 
As far as I can see, Ms A is happy with what our investigator said. 
Bamboo disagreed with our investigators view. In brief summary, it said:
Ms A took out only one other credit account in the eight months before she applied 
for loan 1 and had no other search history
the loan was for debt consolidation and £5,000 would have been sufficient for Ms A 
to have cleared all of her revolving credit, transferring to a fixed term credit and so 
putting her in a better financial position - and it could also have cleared her overdraft
Ms As overdraft limit was less than half of one months net pay  and the APR on 
loan 2 was lower than the average APR her bank charged customers for an overdraft
Ms As credit position between loans 1 and 2 improved and her perfect payment 
record on loan 1 qualified her for a cheaper loan when she applied for loan 2 
by loan 2, there was evidence that Ms A was making more than the minimum 
monthly repayments on her credit cards and one other account had been settled 
within three months of loan 1 starting
having now reviewed the bank statements provided, Bamboo didnt think they 
showed Ms A was under financial stress. It said at the time of loan 1 she was never 
more than one months net pay into her overdraft and she had paid Bamboo perfectly 
until the outbreak of the COVID-19 Pandemic.
Bamboo told us that it had treated Ms A positively and sympathetically and, when needed, it 
had provided appropriate forbearance, including allowing her six payment deferments.
As the complaint hasnt been settled yet and Bamboo has asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case it comes to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry 
practice at the time. Id like to reassure Bamboo that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  
and Ive independently reached the same conclusions as our investigator and Im upholding 
this complaint. Ill set out my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Ms As complaint. 
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay. 
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into 
account things like the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, 
a proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.  
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. 
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about Ms As case.Like our investigator, I dont think Bamboo shouldve provided either of these loans. Ill 
explain why I say this.
Loan 1
Bamboo asked Ms A some questions about her income and expenditure. Bamboo did its 
own checks, which included using an online tool to verify Ms As income. It obtained 
information about Ms As credit history and relied on statistical information about how much 
someone in Ms As position typically spent each month on basic essentials. 
Bamboo relied on information gathered that suggested Ms As net monthly income was 
around £2,047. Using national average figures to reflect her living costs, plus the amount 
Ms A said she was paying towards her housing costs, and after also allowing for Ms As 
spending on her other credit commitments, Bamboo worked out that Ms A would still have 
net monthly disposable income of approximately £525. So the loan monthly repayments 
looked affordable for her. 
I've taken into account what Bamboo has said about how it calculated the affordability 
of this loan before it agreed to lend to Ms A. But, I dont think Bamboo made a fair 
lending decision when it lent to Ms A based on the information it had gathered.
I say this because Bamboo was able to see from its credit checks that she had a total 
outstanding credit balance of £16,107  which I think was a substantial amount of debt for 
someone with Ms As earnings. And it was clear that she had used up almost all her 
available credit  her balance to limit ratio was 99% and most of the ten active credit 
accounts listed were credit cards  all close to their limit. Bamboo couldve seen that Ms A 
was mostly making only minimum repayments to her credit cards  so it wouldve known that 
this meant she wasnt making any significant inroads into repaying this debt. As well as this 
Ms A had unsecured loans, including a large loan taken out around 13 years earlier in April 
2005 that still had an outstanding balance of £6,415 and one from April 2017 which showed 
£3,590 still owing. It was also evident that Ms A had a history of taking out expensive loans. 
I think Bamboo should have considered more carefully why someone with the amount 
of disposable income its checks suggested Ms A had would have needed to make use 
of expensive credit the way it could see Ms A was doing. And I dont think, based on 
what Bamboo had in front of it, I can fairly say that Bamboo saw enough to reasonably 
be satisfied that Ms A was going to be able to make the repayments for this loan in a 
sustainable way. 
I think that Bamboo shouldve done more in-depth checks when considering Ms As 
loan application. I dont think its checks were proportionate because, to my mind, the 
amount borrowed, the total repayments Ms A would have to make for this loan and the 
length of the loan term all lead me to think, on balance, that Bamboo should have 
carried out a complete review of Ms As finances and done more to verify what she had 
told it  especially bearing in mind also what it saw on the credit checks it did carry out.
I've looked at bank statements provided by Ms A which I think are a useful guide to 
understanding Ms As overall financial situation at the time. And I think, if Bamboo had done 
a proportionate check before lending, it wouldve seen nothing to reassure it that this loan 
was going to be sustainably affordable for Ms A. I can see that, far from having the amount 
of disposable income left over each month that Bamboo had calculated, in reality Ms A was 
struggling to keep her bank account in credit. 
In the three months running up to her taking out loan 1, Ms A was around £900 overdrawn at 
the end of each statement period and paying daily overdraft fees for this. And in the weeks running up to her pay going into her account she was operating the account very close to its 
£1,000 arranged overdraft limit.
I think, had it done a proportionate check, Bamboo wouldve most likely realised that this 
loan wasnt going to be sustainably affordable for Ms A when she was already making no 
real headway towards clearing her outstanding debts and struggling to get through the 
month without needing to rely on credit. 
I've taken into account that the loan was for the stated purpose of debt consolidation  in 
other words, it would be used to pay other debt. And Ive noted what Bamboo said about 
how loan 1 couldve been used to help Ms A. But I think the scale of her debts, compared to 
the much smaller value of the loan, would suggest that she would remain in serious financial 
trouble regardless. 
All this leads me to conclude that Bamboo should not have provided loan 1. 
Loan 2
Bamboo carried out the same affordability and creditworthiness checks when Ms A applied 
for loan 2.
It recorded her net pay as £2,510, allowed for her declared monthly housing costs of £560, 
used statistical information to assess her likely living costs at around £449 and worked out 
that she was paying around £400 towards servicing debt. This led Bamboo to calculate that 
Ms As net disposable income would still be around £971 after she had made her monthly 
repayment for loan 2.
I've taken into account that Bamboo was reassured by the information it saw on the credit 
checks it carried out around this time, showing that Ms As total indebtedness (leaving aside 
her mortgage) had gone down from around £16,100 to £9,275  and she was now using 
76% of her available credit. 
But I think Bamboo ought to have realised that Ms A had been struggling to manage her 
debt for a number of years and she was using expensive credit to effectively move her debt 
around  mostly using expensive high cost lenders to provide the new credit she needed to 
do this. 
I think thats borne out by what Bamboo saw on its credit checks  overall, the total amount 
of her revolving credit went up from £3,672 when she took out loan 1 to £5,153 by the time 
she applied for loan 2. 
She had 15 active accounts when she applied for loan 2  half as many again as she had 
when shed taken out loan 1. 
Bamboo was aware that she had used another high cost lender to pay loan 1  and by the 
time she applied for loan 2, she had taken out a second mortgage on her home and two 
further unsecured loans (as well as having taken out and repaid other borrowing in-between 
loans 1 and 2.) 
Her use of credit showed concerning hallmarks of financial difficulty  Ms A had fully used a 
£393 credit limit on a mail order account. 
And she had taken out a new credit card in December 2018 which Ms A used straightaway 
more or less up to its £250 credit limit in the first month - since when she had made just the 
minimum (or sometimes no) monthly repayments.  Like our investigator, looking at all this information and given the amount of this loan and 
bearing in mind that Ms A was signing up to repay it over the next five years, rather than just 
drawing its own conclusions from what it saw, I think Bamboo needed to do more to ensure it 
had a proper understanding of Ms As actual financial situation before it was able to fairly 
assess her loan application. 
And, had Bamboo done more in-depth checks, it wouldve likely found out that Ms As actual 
pay was less than the figure Bamboo had relied on - in reality, in the region of £2,000 per 
month. Ms As bank statements from around this time also show that she was still struggling 
to keep her account in credit  despite having taken out two other substantial unsecured 
loans with other lenders and she still didnt have the amount of disposable income that the 
information Bamboo chose to rely on suggested.
It also looks like Bamboo failed to factor into its affordability assessment that its credit 
checks showed Ms A had taken out a second mortgage which was costing her an additional 
£321 on top of the £560 Bamboo had allowed for (shown as £572 monthly on its credit 
report). Taking into account this information, the repayments for this loan look a lot less 
affordable than Bamboo thought. 
I think the overall picture showed that Ms A had money problems which shed struggled with 
for some time and Bamboos lending decision, which was based on flawed information and 
assumptions that werent borne out by what a proportionate check wouldve revealed, was 
unfair. 
Ive thought carefully about everything Bamboo has said  including its comments made in 
response to our investigators view. Ive seen nothing to make me think that Ms As financial 
situation improved in the months following loan 1. Ms A took out another high cost loan to 
repay her Bamboo loan  and whilst this loan was charged at lower interest, I cant fairly say 
that taking out a high cost loan to repay another suggests that Ms A was in control of her 
finances or that it was in her best interest to do this. Not only was she just moving a portion 
of her debt from one lender to another, doing things this way had long term implications for 
her credit record. 
And any short term savings in interest were off-set by the fact that Bamboo saw, by the time 
Ms A was applying for loan 2, that she had taken other borrowing in-between. 
Bamboo hasnt shown me that it knew which debt was going to be repaid by loan 2 and it 
didnt have control over how the loan was used. Even if it was applied to pay other debt, all 
the indications were that Ms A was reliant on regularly taking out new credit after repaying 
previous borrowing. And the £4,000 loan amount was insufficient to make any real impact on 
her overall debt  just the two loans she had recently taken out were significantly more than 
the amount of loan 2, and she had other outstanding credit. 
Overall, I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboos loans helped Ms A to 
improve her financial situation. For all the reason I've explained, I think they shouldnt 
have been provided. So Im upholding her complaint about both loans. 
As Ms A has been further indebted with a high amount of interest and charges on loans 
that she shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that she has lost out as a result 
of what Bamboo did wrong. So, I think Bamboo needs to put things right.
I havent seen enough to make me think that Bamboo acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Ms A some other way. So Im not proposing to award any additional redress over 
and above what I've set out below.For all the reasons I have explained above, I think it is fair and reasonable for Bamboo to 
take the following steps to put things right.  
Putting things right
In line with this Services approach, Ms A shouldnt repay more than the capital amount 
she borrowed when she took out loans 1 and 2. But she has had to pay interest and 
charges on loans that shouldnt have been provided to her  which isnt fair or reasonable. 
With this in mind, Bamboo should: 
add up the total amount of money Ms A received as a result of being given 
loans 1 and 2.The payments Ms A made should be deducted from this amount 
 
if this results in Ms A having paid more than she received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement) 
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then Bamboo should attempt to 
arrange an affordable/suitable payment plan with Ms A bearing in mind the need to 
treat her positively and sympathetically in those discussions
remove any adverse information placed on Ms As credit file regarding these loans
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Ms A a certificate showing how much tax it takes off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Ms As complaint about loans 1 and 2 and direct Bamboo Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman