DRN-1887430
 
The complaint
Mrs W says Ferratum UK Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs W took out a £400 loan with Ferratum in October 2019. The loan was repayable in three 
monthly repayments of between £203 and £210. An adjudicator considered Mrs Ws 
complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs W didnt agree and her complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W 
could repay her loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ive seen that before lending to Mrs W, Ferratum obtained some information from her about 
her income, expenditure and employment status. Mrs W told Ferratum she was employed 
with a monthly income of £1,751 and monthly expenditure of £1,107. Ferratum also carried 
out a credit check. 
I think these checks were proportionate given the size of the loan, Mrs Ws declared income 
and expenditure and all of the other relevant factors. As these checks suggested the loan 
was affordable, I dont think Ferratum was wrong to provide this loan to Mrs W.
In saying the above I want to make it clear I have looked closely at the results of the credit 
check as this shows Mrs W had a significant amount of both secured and unsecured credit 
(although its not clear from the credit check results how much of the outstanding credit was 
in Mrs W name alone and how much was in joint names with her husband). Despite the 
amount of outstanding credit, the results of the credit search dont suggest Mrs W was 
having any significant difficulties making her existing repayments. The credit check results 
suggest Mrs W may have missed a payment in the 12 months before this loan but also 
suggest there were no existing defaults at the time she made her application to Ferratum. I 
appreciate that Mrs W has highlighted she was in financial difficulty, but I dont think this is 
something Ferratum ought to have realised from the checks it carried out.
I was sorry to hear of Mrs Ws personal and family circumstances, which I wont set out here 
to preserve her privacy. Im afraid that as Im not upholding her complaint, Im not making 
any award  so wont be directing Ferratum to remove/refund any of the interest on the loan 
or write off any of the principal.
I think Ferratum is already aware of Mrs Ws situation but I remind it of its duty to treat her 
positively and sympathetically in respect of any outstanding debt.
  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2020.
 
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman