DRN-1967029
 
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General (L&G) 
declined a claim against his home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B has a holiday home insurance policy with L&G. In November 2019, following a period 
of intense rainfall, his dormer roof failed causing water damage to the inside of the property. 
Mr B wasnt at the property when this happened, so he cant say exactly when the roof 
failed. He can only say that the damage happened within a three-week period.
He made a claim against his policy, but L&G declined this because there werent any storm 
conditions during the period when the roof wouldve failed. And they said the roof failed due 
to general wear and tear (which wasnt covered by the policy) and because it hadnt been 
properly maintained (the property was damp and there was vegetation in the gutter).
Mr B didnt agree and brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our 
investigator said Mr Bs policy covered him for storm damage, but the weather records from 
around the time the roof failed dont show any storm conditions. So she didnt think thered 
been an insured event and she thought L&G had been reasonable in declining the claim.
The investigator also thought that the report from the surveyor who visited the property 
shows that the roof failed because of general wear and tear. And she thought the damp and 
black mould within the property showed that thered been water getting into the property for 
a period of time. So she didnt think itd be fair to ask L&G to repair the damage.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. He doesnt think the property being damp is anything 
to do with the roof failure and says that all the local properties are damp because theyre 
close to the seafront and dont have foundations.
Hes also said that the property was well maintained, and the guttering to the front of the 
property had been cleaned out before the roof failed. He thinks L&G are bringing up things 
that arent related to the claim, so hes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering L&Gs decision, Ive considered whether they acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of Mr Bs policy. And Ive considered whether the decision was both fair and 
reasonable. Its important to note its not my role to re-underwrite the claim. My role is to 
consider the service L&G provided. And having done so, Ive reached the same overall 
conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Firstly Ive considered the damage to Mr Bs roof and whether it was fair for L&G to decide it 
wasnt storm related. Ive seen a copy of Mr Bs insurance policy and it defines a storm as:
A period of violent weather which may incorporate:
wind speeds of at least 48 knots (55mph)
torrential rain, falling at a rate of at least 25mm an hour 
The policy also excludes:
Any loss or damage caused by wear and tear, corrosion, damp, mould, dry or wet rot or 
fungus or any other damage that happens gradually over time
The policy classifies a rainstorm as 25mm of rainfall an hour, but it doesnt provide a 24-hour 
measurement. As a general guide we consider anything over 30mm of rainfall within 24 
hours to be classified as heavy rainfall and so also qualifies as rainstorm conditions. This 
falls in line with weather industry guidelines.
Mr B says he last visited the property three weeks before he discovered the roof had failed. 
L&G have said that during this period the highest wind speed was 35mph and the highest 
amount of rainfall was 18.4mm in a 24-hour period. These dont meet the criteria of a storm 
as defined by Mr Bs policy. Weve also checked the weather records for the time and, while 
theres no doubt the rainfall was higher than average for the time of year, theres nothing to 
show there were any storm conditions.
L&G sent a surveyor to inspect the property and the damage. The surveyor said the roof was 
in a poor state of repair, and the gutters were chocked with moss and vegetation. The 
surveyor concluded the flat roof over the dormer had reached the end of its natural life, and 
there had been water getting in for a period of up to five years. And the black mould present 
in the bedrooms and lounge was consistent with rain water coming in for a period of time, 
not a one-off event.
I appreciate Mr B has said the gutters for the dormer had been cleaned shortly before the 
roof failed, but this would indicate they were blocked and not working fully effectively before 
cleaning. Which would mean rain water wasnt draining away properly and could enter the 
property through a damaged roof. 
Mr B has also said that the property was only damp because of its costal location and poor 
foundations. The surveyor has said there was raising and penetrating damp, and this would 
be consistent with Mr Bs explanation. But this is in addition to the damp caused by rain 
water getting into the property. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think L&G acted reasonably by declining the claim. There 
wasnt any insurable event  a storm  and the water entering the property over a period of 
time, and the roof failing, was because of wear and tear. And wear and tear isnt covered.
Mr B has also said hes not claiming for the failure of the roof, but for the internal damage 
caused by rain water entering the property. But for this damage to be covered by the policy, 
it has to result from an insurable event. And for the reasons above, I dont think there was an 
insurable event. So I wont be asking L&G to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint about Fairmead Insurance 
Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28August2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman