DRN-2688149
The complaint
Mr Z complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
Its been agreed that AXA France IARD, (AXA), should accept responsibility for the 
sale. For simplicity Ive referred to AXA throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr Z took out a store card in 2001 in the store. Some seven months later, during a 
telesales call, he took out the policy. The policy covered risks in addition to accident, 
sickness and unemployment, but I havent considered these other benefits as part of my 
decision. The policy cost £1 for every £100 outstanding on Mr Zs credit card account
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. As Mr Z disagreed, 
the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive followed this in making my decision in Mr Zs case.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mr Z says that the PPI was added to his account without his knowledge or consent. He told 
us that, when he applied for the store card, he didnt opt for the PPI. He says, this was 
because he didnt have any need for it as he was entitled to excellent sick pay from his 
employment. However, as Ive said, the insurance was added to his account later during a 
phone call. Because of the time that has passed AXA no longer has a record of what was 
said to Mr Z during the sale. But, as Mr Z had already had his store card for several months 
by that time, it would have been clear to him that he didnt need to have the policy in order 
to get the card. And as PPI was added to his account, on balance, I think that Mr Z must 
have agreed to take it
Because the sale was so long ago, we dont have a complete copy of the actual policy 
terms that applied to Mr Zs card. So Ive considered the policy terms of the same insurers 
that we do have, that were in use for other store cards nearest to the time of the sale.
AXA says it didnt advise Mr Z to take the policy. This means that it didnt have to check that 
it was right for him. But AXA did have to give Mr Z clear, fair and not-misleading information 
about the PPI so that he could make an informed decision himself whether he wanted it or 
not. Its possible the information AXA gave Mr Z about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But it seems he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, he was eligible for the 
policy and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of its exclusions or limits  such as 
those affecting someone who had a pre-existing medical condition. So it could have been 
useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
As Ive said, Ive considered everything Mr Z has told us. Including that he was entitled to 
generous sick pay from his employer. However, following a successful claim, the PPI would 
have likely paid 15% of his store credit account balance a month. These payments would 
have been paid until the date he was able to return to work or the date on which the 
balance on his store card was cleared, whichever arose first. And they would have been in 
addition to anything he got from his employment - leaving such work benefits available to 
meet his other expenses while he was unable to work. 
It could be that AXA didnt give Mr Z all the detail of the PPI costs as it ought to have  for 
instance that he would still have had to continue paying the premiums during any claim. But 
although Mr Z has told us about the sick pay he recalls he was entitled to, I havent seen 
any documentary evidence of this. In my view the sick pay Mr Z remembers having 
represents an unusually generous level of employee benefit  even taking into account his 
length of service and the nature of his employer. Overall Ive not been persuaded that 
Mr Zs sick pay entitlement was of an amount that meant he had no need for the policy; so 
that being given better costs information would have dissuaded him from taking it.
Mr Z has also told us that he met all his store card repayments, even with the PPI costs, so 
this showed that the insurance wasnt necessary in his circumstances. But that is not the 
way insurance works. Because he didnt in fact need to claim during the time he held the 
PPI doesnt mean that, at the time he took it out, there wasnt the possibility that some 
unforeseen circumstance could have arisen later which could have given rise to a claim. 
Further Mr Z has told us that he was in secure employment at the time of the sale. But my 
comment above also applies to this. And I note that he was in fact made redundant a few 
years after taking out the PPI.
So I find that Mr Z hasnt lost out because of anything that AXA may have done wrong during 
the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that I require AXA to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, my decisio0n is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman