DRN-4318467
The complaint
Mrs L complains Mulberry Wealth Management Limited provided her with unsuitable 
financial advice. She says she was advised to re-mortgage a property for more than she 
needed in order to invest in an unsuitable product. She says this has caused her a financial 
loss. 
What happened
In late 2018, Mrs L received advice from Mulberry in relation to a buy to let mortgage (BTL) 
on a property she owned. She was advised to raise capital from the property by taking out 
an interest only mortgage for £150,000. 
A few months later (in April 2019), and after the mortgage had completed Mulberry provided 
Mrs L with investment advice. The advice centred on using £100,000 of the money raised 
from the re-mortgage to generate additional income. She was advised to invest £20,000 in 
an ISA and the remaining £80,000 in a General Investment Account (GIA). Mrs L didnt 
accept this recommendation and the investment didnt proceed. 
In April 2020, Mrs L raised a complaint with Mulberry. She said originally, she only needed to 
release £50,000 of equity from the investment property for home refurbishment and repairs, 
holidays and day to day living. But she says was convinced by the adviser to take out an 
additional £100,000 to generate additional income. But she said as a result of the mortgage 
payments, rather than having additional income she had interest to pay. While she didnt 
proceed with the investment products recommended by Mulberry, she said she has found 
herself tied into a fixed rate mortgage which she is unable to repay early as there were large 
penalties.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2023. This is what I said:
Mrs Ls complaint and the losses she claims refer to mortgage advice she received to take 
out an advance on a BTL mortgage and also subsequent investment advice  both sets of 
advice were given by Mulberry, albeit several months apart. At the start of my findings I will 
set out what I can and cant look at as part of my considerations of the complaint. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets the DISP rules within its handbook. These set 
out our powers to consider complaints  known as our jurisdiction. The rules cover a number 
of different things that determine what type of complaints we can look into  this includes 
whether the activity complained about is regulated. If not, then we would be unable to 
consider a complaint. 
One of the complaints (and arguably her main complaint) Mrs L makes relates to the activity 
of providing advice on a mortgage by Mulberry - so Ive thought about whether this is a type 
of activity which is covered within the rules. The rules sets out a list of activities were able to 
consider, and ancillary activities in connection to them.
In respect of mortgage advice, it requires the mortgage to be regulated by the FCA. If a 
mortgage is unregulated, the rules dont allow us to consider a complaint against the advisor 
- which is this case is Mulberry. Im satisfied the advice Mulberry gave Mrs L in late 2018 
doesnt fall within the scope of a regulated activity. Thats because the BTL mortgage Mrs L 
took out is unregulated. I also havent found this advice to be ancillary to any other regulated 
activity. I note the documentation relating to the mortgage advice refers to a need to invest to 
generate income. But no specific investment products or strategy was mentioned within this 
advice instead the fact find completed records that the £100,000 was for a possible 
investment property. All of this means I cant consider the complaint points Mrs L makes 
about the mortgage advice. 
Mrs L did receive separate advice several months later, in April 2019, in relation to 
investments  and this is something I can consider. This advice is covered by the regulated 
activities within the rules. The consequence for Mrs Ls complaint about Mulberry is that Im 
only able to consider the merits of the complaint in relation to the investment advice given. 
So, I can only look at this in isolation  without consideration of the BTL mortgage and the 
implications of the advice to take out the mortgage.
Ive reviewed the information available from the investment advice, including the 
recommendation letter sent by the advisor to Mrs L on 29 April 2020. Ive also considered 
what Mrs L has told us about her needs and circumstances at the time. 
The suitability letter provides details of Mrs Ls circumstances and objectives at the time. It 
says you would like to invest as tax efficiently as possible and also to provide you with a 
sustainable income which we have initial agreed would be £3,600 per year paid in monthly 
instalments.
Her attitude to risk is also detailed and the advisor said the funds were recommended 
based on the level of risk you are prepared to accept. It is also explained that Mrs L 
competed a risk profiling questionnaire  and from this her risk profile suggested a profile 
of 3 on a scale of 1 to 5, and this kind of investor will be typically described as:
prepared to take a moderate amount of investment risk in order to increase the chance of 
achieving a better return on the investment. A typical Moderate investor will usually invest in 
a variety of assets to obtain diversification and therefore reduce risk. Equities and property, 
which can boost longer term returns but are associated with more risk would often account 
for a higher proportion of assets than fixed interest gilts and bonds or cash. At shorter 
investment terms the proportion of higher risk assets is usually reduced. The range of asset 
types helps reduce the overall risks while increasing the chance of better returns.
From what Ive seen Mrs L appears to have been in a position in which she was able to 
invest the amounts committed to the ISA and GIA. While she seems to be a relatively 
inexperienced as an investor, I dont think means she couldnt have understood the level 
of risk involved with the portfolio and that it wouldnt be consistent with her attitude to risk. 
But I dont have a lot of information from which to make a finding on this. The suitability does 
suggest an attitude risk questionnaire was completed and the fund recommended was 
consistent with Mrs Ls agreed attitude to risk, and a fund fact sheet was enclosed  
although I havent been provided with all of this information.  
There is a dispute about Mrs Ls need for income. The suitability letter says that her 
objective was to increase her income. The recommendation was designed to do this as the 
two investments were designed to pay a monthly income and retain capital (depending on 
performance of the underlying fund).  But I note Mrs L has questioned the level of income 
the recommended products would generate in comparison to the costs of the mortgage she 
had taken out a few months earlier.  While I understand the point she makes about the 
mortgage costs exceeding the projected income from the investment, I dont think this gives 
me grounds for saying the advice was unsuitable. In order to generate more income, Mrs L 
would likely need to take a greater risk with her capital  which would make the recommendation unsuitable for her recorded attitude to risk. The mortgage costs were 
established before the investment advice was given  and as previously mentioned I cant 
consider the mortgage advice that resulted in this outgoing. 
Even if I was to find that the investment advice was unsuitable for Mrs L, I dont find that she 
has suffered a loss as a result of this. If I were to uphold the complaint, I would look at 
putting Mrs L back in the position had she not invested the funds by returning them to her. 
But she decided not to go ahead with the recommendation, so there is nothing to refund. 
From what Mrs L has said, she decided to take a different approach with using her funds as 
she intended to buy a new property instead. Unfortunately, this didnt complete, but I dont 
find this has anything to do with the suitability of the investment advice. As the money wasnt 
invested in line with the recommendation, I havent established there is a loss caused by the 
investment advice given by Mulberry. So, despite not having full information about how Mrs 
Ls attitude to risk was assessed and the fund make up, I wouldnt be able to recommend 
compensation anyway. 
I appreciated Mrs L has described financial losses as a result of having to pay her BTL 
mortgage. She also mentioned the early repayments charges preventing her from paying the 
capital back to reduce the mortgage. But none of this relates to the investment advice.  So, I 
cant reach a finding that unsuitable investment advice has caused these losses  or the 
associated stress and upset. 
Ive carefully considered all of the submission Mrs L has made. She has confirmed the crux 
of her concerns are that she only ever wanted to borrow £50,000 and the extra £100,000 
that the advisor suggested for her to release from her BTL property has caused financial 
debt, worry and stress. But for the reasons Ive already explained, I cant consider this 
advice. I appreciate Mrs L may feel Mulberry isnt being held accountable for the 
consequences of its mortgage advice. But Im not saying Mulberry has nothing to answer for, 
nor am I saying it does have something to answer for. I simply cant consider the mortgage 
advice either way as its not within our remit to do so. If this was a complaint about a 
regulated mortgage (and in our jurisdiction to consider) then I could make a decision on all 
the points Mrs L has raised, but as her BTL mortgage isnt regulated, Ive no power to 
consider this part of her complaint about Mulberry. And I havent found unsuitable 
investment advice has caused the losses she claims. 
Mrs L responded and made further submissions. In summary she said:
- The information in the application summary was falsely filled in as it states that the 
£100,000 was for capital raising to potentially buy another property/investment.
- The mortgage lender told her the mortgage would never have been given on the 
grounds of a savings investment. So, she believes Mulberry lied on the form as it was 
always its intention to sell her an investment plan.
- She was pushed into a far bigger mortgage than she ever wanted and has now found 
out it was supposedly to invest in another property. 
- After the application came through and while the savings investment was being 
considered, she found a property but that was not on the horizon when she first 
sought to raise funds. After the property purchase fell through, she didnt receive any 
help from Mulberry. 
Mulberry didnt provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Ive considered the further submissions made by Mrs L. I acknowledge that she believes the 
information recorded on the paperwork available from the mortgage application is false and 
doesnt present her intentions at the time. I also note the comments made by Mrs L about 
the basis for the mortgage being accepted. And her ascertain that she was pushed to take a 
bigger mortgage than she needed
The first point I need to reiterate is that these points all relate to the mortgage advice she 
received. I explained in my provisional findings that the mortgage advice Mulberry gave her 
in late 2018 doesnt fall within the scope of a regulated activity  so not something I can 
consider. 
While Mrs L disputes the accuracy of the information that was recorded, it is 
contemporaneous evidence to the events that lead to her agreeing to accept the advance of 
£150,000. There is no information within the mortgage advice documentation that indicates 
specific discussions about investment advice and/or products were held. So Im not 
persuaded to change the conclusions that I reached in my provisional decision on my ability 
to look into the concerns Mrs L raises about the mortgage advice. 
Mrs L has also raised concerns that Mulberry didnt provide her with further support after her 
property purchase fell through, subsequent to the investment advice. While I understand why 
she would have liked further support, I dont find that Mulberry had a responsibility to support 
her after this purchase fell through. As I explained in my provisional decision, Im only able to 
look at the investment advice she received in April 2019. The property purchase didnt form 
part of the this investment advice and therefore two matters arent related. So, I dont find 
that there has been a failing by Mulberry in not providing further support here. 
In summary, I do empathise with Mrs L and understand the difficult financial situation she 
has found herself in. Im not saying that Mulberry hasnt done anything wrong during the 
mortgage advice process - but rather this isnt something I able to consider. And for the 
reasons previously explained, I havent found grounds to recommend compensation for the 
investment advice she received in April 2019. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman