DRN-3346867
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund him the money hes lost after falling victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances of the complaint and the details were clearly set 
out by our investigator when she wrote to the bank upholding Mr Ts complaint in part. As 
such, I wont repeat them all here. In summary: 
Mr T, having sold his business, had funds he wished to invest and, in early 
March 2020 he searched online for investments with good interest rates. Mr T has 
explained that at the time, he understood that investment interest rates were 
dropping  due to the pandemic and so, he searched for corporate bonds which he 
believed paid higher interest rates.  
Mr T registered his details online. He was called by two firms. However, Mr T decided 
to proceed with the firm Ill refer to as firm A. In his contact with firm A, Mr T spoke to 
two individuals purporting to work for the firm. He was initially told about the firm and 
that it was authorised by with the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and he then 
spoke with a more senior colleague who discussed the corporate bonds available. 
Mr T was told about two corporate bonds available  one which was paying interest 
at 9.625% and the other paying interest at 11.5%. 
Mr T was sent literature and he says, after having carried out some online research, 
he felt happy to invest. Mr T didnt invest straight away following the initial contact 
due to him falling ill. It was a few weeks later when he completed an application. 
The fraudsters informed Mr T of the Financial Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and of 
its limits. Mr T proceeded to open two bonds: one for himself for £85,000 and another 
in his wifes name also for £85,000. Having been asked to make an initial payment of 
£17,000, Mr T sent this amount on 27 March 2020. He made this payment to the 
beneficiary details he was given, which he was told was in the name of firm A. Mr T 
then made eight further payments totalling a further £178,000 between 30 March 
2020 and 10 April 2020. These payments were made to a different payee. In total 
Mr T sent £195,000 to the fraudsters. 
For completeness, Mr T invested another £100,000 into a bond in his name. Some of 
the payments outlined above were made towards this investment but further 
payments were also made from an account Mr T held with another bank. The 
payments made from Mr Ts other account will be considered under a separate case 
with our service against the other bank. Therefore, in this decision I will be focussing 
only on the payments Mr T made from his Lloyds account.  
Mr T didnt receive the contact from the fraudsters that he was expecting  setting 
him up with online access to his accounts. And when he hadnt heard anything for a 
couple of months, he became concerned. Mr T was unable to reach the fraudsters 
and when he searched online, he came across a warning that had been posted on 
the FCA website on 16 April 2020 which indicated the firm had been cloned. 
Mr T contacted Lloyds on 22 July 2020 to ask for help. Lloyds contacted the receiving 
banks but unfortunately no funds remained. 
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM) Code which is designed to reimburse customers that have fallen victim to an APP 
scam. The starting position under the Code is for a customer to be refunded in all but a 
limited number of circumstances. Lloyds says one or more of those exceptions applies in this 
case. 
I am also mindful that when Mr T made these payments, Lloyds should fairly and reasonably 
also have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
And in some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm from fraud. 
When Lloyds considered the matter, it said an effective warning was provided on each 
payment to alert Mr T to this type of scam. It also says a warning was provided that the 
name of the intended recipient didnt match the name that the accounts were in when he 
made payments to the two receiving accounts. This was on the first payment Mr T made on 
27 March 2020 and the second payment on 30 March 2020. Lloyds raised that there was an 
FCA warning in place before Mr T made the first payment, which indicated firm As 
authorisation was removed on 12 March 2020. Lloyds also felt the interest rates were too 
good to be true and that there were negative reviews online which ought to have caused 
Mr T concern. In summary, it felt Mr T couldve taken more caution and carried out further 
checks before making the payments.
Mr T disagreed with Lloyds and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and thought the complaint should be upheld in part. In 
brief, she wasnt satisfied Lloyds had established that Mr T had ignored an effective warning. 
However, she also didnt think Mr T had met his requisite level of care under the CRM Code. 
On this basis, she recommended Lloyds reimburse Mr T 50% of his loss under the 
provisions of the CRM Code, along with paying interest at the Club Lloyds account rate at 
the time the payments were made.  
Mr T accepted our investigators view, but Lloyds didnt agree. In summary, Lloyds maintains 
Mr T is liable for his loss as he didnt complete the due diligence required before making the 
payments. It reiterates that the rate of return for the bonds offered were way higher than 
market average and so feel this was too good to be true and should have been a warning to 
Mr T. It says there were negative reviews of the firm online  most of which pre-dated the 
payments Mr T made. It again highlighted the no match result for Confirmation of Payee 
(CoP) and say he failed to acknowledge the warning the bank tried to give him about the 
account details not matching. In addition to this, Lloyds add that Mr T ignored an Account at 
Risk (AAR) warning and nor did he read the warnings on its Fraud Hub Page. Lloyds isnt 
convinced that, even if it had shown Mr T these warnings on the initial payment page, that he 
would have taken heed of them. 
Lloyds considers the ruling in Philipp v Barclays Bank to be relevant to this case  a court 
decision that the Quincecare duty should not apply where the transfer is properly and 
lawfully authorised by the customer. Lloyds in response to our investigators view has referred to intervention  commenting that the payments Mr T made were with his normal 
spending pattern. Therefore, it feels there was no reason for bank intervention. Even if there 
had been intervention, Lloyds doesnt think this wouldve likely deterred Mr T from making 
the payments. 
Having carefully considered the banks response, our investigators view remained 
unchanged  largely for the reasons shed previously set out. However, she did 
acknowledge the recent Phillip v Barclays Bank judgement where the judge took a different 
view about the Quincecare duty. Whilst she didnt suggest the Quincecare duty applied to 
this case, she acknowledged that this service had a duty to resolve complaints based on 
what we think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case  taking into 
account not just the law but also the regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what we consider to have been good practice at the time. This includes the 
CRM Code, which Lloyds is signed up to. 
Our investigator clarified that shed not argued Lloyds ought to have contacted Mr T about 
the payments and ask him questions about them. But she did consider that each of the 
payments made were remarkable enough to have warranted an effective warning and 
referred to the requirements for firms under the CRM Code. She concluded each payment 
Mr T made was significant enough in value for Lloyds to have identified a scam risk and 
provided an effective warning. And whilst she recognised, Mr T had made similar payments 
in March 2020, this was following the sale of his business. Prior to this, the account was not 
used to make such high value payments. 
Our investigator explained that under the CRM Code, where the sending firm has failed to 
meet the standards for firms, and the customer has not met their requisite level of care, each 
liable party will accept equal responsibility. Therefore, her view remained the same that both 
Lloyds and Mr T should share liability 50:50. 
As Lloyds continued to disagree with our investigators view on the complaint, its been 
passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold this complaint in part. I will now explain why. 
The starting point in law is that Mr T is presumed liable for any transactions on his account 
that he authorises. He did authorise all the payments that are the subject of this complaint, 
even though he did so under false pretences and as a result of a scam. 
But thats not the end of the story. Lloyds is signed up to the CRM Code and so ought to 
refund victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams in all but a limited number of 
circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that a customer failed to meet their requisite 
level of care, as set out in the Code. 
Lloyds has said that one or more of the exceptions to reimbursement apply in Mr Ts case. 
And I agree that is the case, which is why Im not telling the bank to do any more than was 
recommended by the investigator. 
The relevant exceptions to reimbursement are, broadly: where it can be demonstrated that a customer ignored an effective warning given by 
the bank 
where the customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for belief 
they were for legitimate goods and services.
Did Mr T meet the requisite level of care required of a customer under the CRM Code?
Ive first thought about whether Mr T have a reasonable basis for belief for all the payments 
he made. Having carefully considered all the circumstances of this complaint, I agree with 
both Lloyds and our investigator, in that I dont find Mr T had a reasonable basis of belief that 
the payments he was making were legitimate and in turn Im not satisfied he has met his 
requisite level of care under the CRM Code. 
Lloyds has raised Mr T didnt complete the due diligence required of him before making the 
payments he did. I do appreciate there were elements of the scam which were convincing, 
for example, the paperwork he received appears in line with what he would have expected to 
receive in connection with genuine investments of this type. He was also asked to complete 
an application process - again which would have appeared typical for an investment. And 
Mr T also had dealings with more than one individual which gave him the impression he was 
dealing with a busy organisation which convinced him he was dealing with a genuine firm.   
However, Lloyds highlight there were warnings on the FCA register at the time and negative 
reviews which ought to have caused Mr T concern. I can see there wasnt a cloned firm 
warning about firm A added until April 2020, which was after Mr T made the payments. But 
there was information on the FCA register on 12 March 2020 which confirmed the firm was 
no longer authorised. 
Mr T says on 9 March 2020 he looked up the firm online and didnt see anything of concern. 
However, Im not persuaded Mr T did this level of research into the firm. I say this because 
Mr T was in court the same day in relation to a serious matter and so, I think its unlikely that 
he also wouldve researched a possible investment on the same day. But in any event, even 
if Im wrong about this, Im satisfied there were some other red flags that I feel he shouldve 
been concerned about before proceeding with the payments. 
The rates of return offered were quite high in comparison with what was available elsewhere. 
I understand Mr T felt this was because they were corporate bonds. However, I note there is 
some discrepancy as to the term of the bonds within the paperwork. Given the rates of return 
I think Mr T ought to have looked more closely at the paperwork before proceeding.
I also cannot ignore that the fraudsters asked Mr T to make payments to two different 
beneficiary accounts with two different banks. Ive not seen any plausible reason as to why 
Mr T was asked to make payments to two different payees. In addition, while Mr T says he 
was satisfied he was making payments to firm A, Lloyds has provided information which 
shows he was presented with a no match CoP result for the first payment, and the 
subsequent payment. 
Given that Mr T was provided with two negative CoP results, I can understand why Lloyds 
feel this ought to have caused him concern. These results ought to have prompted Mr T to 
question whether he was paying the correct firm, even more so by the time he made the 
second payment given this was inexplicably going to a different payee. 
As Ive explained, Im not persuaded Mr T had undertaken much independent research prior 
to making the payments, and at this point I think he shouldve checked that he was dealing 
with a legitimate business. Its also important to note that the possibility of a scam wasnt the only risk  the message shown indicates that it could be the wrong account number and so 
there was the risk that firm A might have made a mistake when providing the account details 
to Mr T. So Id have expected him to consider the possibility that there had been a mistake 
with the account details and Ive seen no evidence to persuade me Mr T did any further 
checks upon receiving the no match CoP results. 
Ive thought about what Mr T has told us about previous payments he made under his 
business  that most times the information about the payee was that the account could not 
be found when he knew it existed and so he had no concerns - Im afraid I cannot agree this 
was a reasonable conclusion to draw in this particular set of circumstances. Im persuaded 
the no match result could and should have led Mr T to take steps to check the payment 
details and conduct further research into the firm he was trying to invest through. 
With all the above in mind, thinking in particular about the rate of returns offered and the 
discrepancies relating to these rates within the paperwork the fraudster provided, and the 
negative CoP results, I think Mr T shouldve done more checks, and on doing so, Im 
persuaded hed have realised this was a scam. I say this because I think Mr T wouldve 
realised that the firm he believed to be legitimate and authorised was not in fact authorised. 
This wouldve prompted him to call the genuine firm in turn realising he was dealing with 
individuals impersonating the firm. 
It follows that Im not satisfied Mr T has met the requisite level of care under the CRM Code. 
As Ive concluded Mr T didnt meet the requisite level of care, Ive gone on to think about 
whether Lloyds met the standards required of it under the CRM Code. 
Did Lloyds meet the standards required of it under the CRM Code and did it present Mr T 
with an effective warning?
In the particular circumstances of this case Im satisfied Lloyds ought to have provided 
effective warnings. This is because I think it ought to have identified a scam risk given Mr T 
was paying large amounts of money to new payees, and it seems to me Lloyds accepts this 
position given it provided warnings and has said Mr T ignored effective warnings. 
I dont find that the warnings given by Lloyds met the definition of an effective warning. The 
requirements for this are set out in the Code under standards for firms. 
The CRM Code says: 
SF1(2)(e) As a minimum, Effective Warnings should meet the following criteria 
(i) Understandable  in plain language, intelligible and meaningful to the Customer 
(ii) Clear  in line with fair, clear and not misleading standard as set out in Principle 7 of 
the FCAs [Financial Conduct Authority] Principles for Businesses 
(iii) Impactful  to positively affect Customer decision-making in a manner whereby the 
likelihood of an APP scam succeeding is reduced. This should include steps to 
ensure that the Customer can reasonably understand the consequences of 
continuing with an irrevocable payment; 
(iv) Timely  given at points in the Payment Journey most likely to have impact on the 
Customers decision-making; 
(v) Specific  tailored to the customer type and APP scam risk identified by analytics 
during the Payment Journey, and/or during contact with the Customer
Im not satisfied the warning that was presented to Mr T meets all those requirements. The 
warning isnt specific to any one type of scam and more information on the specific scam 
types is only accessible through an optional link to the Fraud Hub page. So this information isnt prominently displayed and therefore lacks the clarity and impact required of an effective 
warning. 
The warning Mr T saw did not bring to life what investment scams looked and felt like - more 
specifically it didnt highlight any of the common features of these types of scams and in 
particular, a cloned firm scam and just how sophisticated these can be. It also doesnt set 
out what steps Mr T could specifically take to protect himself against the common features of 
investment scams or cloned firm scams  as required under the CRM Code. The generic 
warning simply tells the customer to check the account details with a trusted source, yet the 
importance of this isnt explained, and theres no indication what such a trusted source could 
be in the circumstances. Overall, Im not persuaded the warning Lloyds provided when Mr T 
made the payments met the standards set out in the CRM Code. 
In this case, Lloyds has referred to the fact the warning was provided alongside a no match 
CoP result. I think it is important to distinguish an effective warning and negative CoP 
results under the CRM Code. Effective warnings are intended specifically to address the risk 
of, and enable customers to protect themselves from, APP scams. An effective warning 
must, as a minimum, meet the definition under the Code  that is to be understandable, 
clear, impactful, timely and specific. 
Messages accompanying negative confirmation of payee results, though sometimes 
mentioning the possibility of fraud, are primarily intended to warn customers that payment 
details do not match (as was the case here) so as to warn customers about the risk of 
misdirecting a payment. And while I acknowledge Lloyds provided a warning (albeit I have 
already explained why I dont find this to have been an effective warning) and a negative 
CoP result within the same payment journey, I dont find the two together to be sufficient to 
amount to an effective warning in this particular case. 
Ive also carefully considered Lloyds position that it isnt convinced that a warning wouldve 
made a difference or that Mr T wouldve taken heed of them. However, I dont agree. While 
Im persuaded that the no match CoP result could and should have led Mr T to taking steps 
to undertake more research and check the payment details at the time of making the 
payments (which Ive explained above), I dont think I can safely say that Mr T has acted with 
such recklessness or negligence to find he would have ignored an effective scam warning. 
Ive not seen anything that suggests Mr T had any experience or knowledge about what a 
cloned firm scam looked and felt like. And, Im mindful there were aspects of the scam which 
were persuasive and mirrored that of what a genuine investment firm would do. I dont find 
that Mr T has demonstrated a clear disregard for risk  nor was it the case that he had 
concerns and yet decided to proceed in any event. 
Had Lloyds provided an effective warning  bringing to life an investment scam, explaining 
that they can be sophisticated  i.e. that firms can be cloned - and setting out steps Mr T 
could take to protect himself, I think hed have done further research. Im particularly 
persuaded this wouldve been the case coupled with the no match CoP results  I accept 
Mr T didnt act in the way he ought to have done in response to the CoP results, but Im 
satisfied hed have taken a different course of action had the no match CoP results been 
provided within the same payment journey as an effective warning. The two combined 
wouldve been much more impactful in my opinion and Im persuaded the scam wouldve 
been exposed for the reasons Ive previously explained. I think Mr T wouldve recognised he 
wasnt dealing with a legitimate firm. 
And so, as Im not satisfied Lloyds provided effective warnings, it follows that it failed to meet 
the standards required of it under the Code. Therefore, Lloyds is liable for 50% of the loss 
here. And for completeness, while it doesnt affect the outcome of this case, given Ive concluded Lloyds did not provide effective warnings, I do not think Mr T ignored any effective 
warnings.
Is there anything else Lloyds ought to have fairly and reasonably done? 
Having carefully considered this, I agree with our investigator. I dont think the payments 
Mr T asked to make were so unusual or out of character from the previous account activity, 
whereby I wouldve expected Lloyds to have intervened beyond providing effective warnings.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I think both parties ought to share 
some responsibility for the loss. 
I therefore require Lloyds Bank PLC to: 
Refund Mr T 50% of his loss and;
Pay interest on 50% of the loss, from the date Lloyds declined Mr Ts claim under the 
Code, until the date of the settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible). Lloyds should 
send Mr T a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one. The interest should be 
calculated at the rate of Mr Ts Club Lloyds account at the time, as this is an interest-
bearing account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman