DRN-3285805
The complaint
X and X have complained that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined their claim 
regarding a bore hole water supply issue under their home insurance policy. 
There were several parties involved in this complaint on behalf of Fairmead, such as agents, 
loss adjusters and contractors. For ease of reference however, I will only refer to Fairmead 
in this decision.
What happened
X and X had house insurance with Fairmead at the relevant time. In May 2021, X and X 
were in the process of selling and moving from their property. Before doing so, the water 
supply to the property which was serviced by a bore hole had recently stopped working. 
Fairmead recommended that they obtained a cause of damage report from a suitably 
qualified professional to determine if an insured event had occurred. X and X then appointed 
water supply specialists to look into the matter. The specialists provided a report which 
indicated that the problem was possibly covered by the home insurance policy. 
X and X then contacted Fairmead to make a claim under their policy and Fairmead sent a 
representative to the property to review the position and he also provided a report. Fairmead 
declined to pay out on the policy on the basis of this report, stating that the pump was 
defective and was not covered.
X and X complained to Fairmead as they felt that it had ignored their expert report which 
showed, in their view, that the problem had been caused by ground movement and not by 
wear and tear of the pump as suggested by Fairmeads representative. Fairmead concluded 
that its decision to decline X and Xs complaint was correct and they then brought their 
complaint to this service. They complained that Fairmead had ignored their expert evidence, 
that Fairmeads engineer wasnt qualified to assess the problem, and that it had unfairly 
declined their claim. They also said that theyd suffered financial hardship as the work to 
restore their water supply had cost £9,000. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. It was his view, having compared the two 
reports, that they came to different conclusions about whether the pump itself was broken or 
not. He noted that the reports came to the same conclusion however that the pump couldnt 
be retrieved due to the borehole sleeve being damaged. He thought that this wasnt covered 
by the policy wording and he was therefore satisfied that Fairmead had acted fairly in 
declining the claim. 
X and X remain unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and the case has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue for me to consider is whether Fairmead acted unfairly or unreasonably in 
declining the claim and concluding that the loss of X and Xs water supply was caused by 
damage outside the policy. I cant say that it did, and Ill explain why.
The starting point in these circumstances is the wording of the policy itself and any relevant 
associated documents. I note that in the policy booklet, the definition of buildings cover 
includes; Accidental damage for which you are legally responsible to cables, underground 
pipes or underground tanks servicing the property, and the definition of Accidental damage 
includes;-  Unexpected and unintended damage caused by sudden means.
It also states; You are not insured againstLoss or damage caused bymechanical or 
electrical fault, failure or breakdown.
As to General exceptions that apply to the whole policy, it states that; This policy does not 
insure the following;Loss or damage arising from:
 gradual causes
 wear and tear 
 corrosion, deterioration or similar causes 
 wet or dry rot. 
At the end of May 2021, X and Xs water supply specialists reported that they had carried out 
significant testing and had deduced that the borehole pump had failed. A lifting team had 
attempted, but was unable, to lift the pump to either repair or replace it. Use of heavy lifting 
gear was also attempted but failed. It recommended and implemented the solution of a new 
bore hole. The specialists stated that the possible reasons why the pump couldnt be lifted 
were numerous. It offered the following as examples; possible ground movement, incorrect 
liner installation or fine sediment jamming it tight in position over a period of time. 
In further correspondence in June 2021, X and Xs water supply specialists reported that; 
the recent failure of your borehole supply is absolutely nothing to do with the borehole pump 
breaking down, it is to do with the fact that the pump is stuck down the well. It reported that 
borehole pumps are intricate mechanical devices, some of which run at exceptionally high 
speed, and that they will at some time break down. It is guaranteed that they will fail at some 
point in the future. 
The report said that its for this reason that the wells in which pumps are placed are 
designed for them to be retrieved for many decades to come. In your case, however, 
something has prevented this from happening. It is not down to fair wear and tear, it is not 
down to recent vandalism (one of the bolts holding the borehole top plate was totally 
inaccessible without dismantling the dry-stone wall) and it certainly is not as a result of 
anything you have done, either intentionally or accidentally, Finally it added that X and Xs 
water supply was  integral in terms of suitability of a property for residential use, and 
ultimately its value. 
Fairmeads report referred to the claim as being a; claim for accidental damage to the 
underground water supply services. Fairmeads representative referred to the failure of the 
current pump serving the borehole and that it wasnt easily accessible as a small dry-stone 
wall had been built over the top of the main access point. This had been pulled down to 
allow access. He noted that X and Xs specialists had referred to an unsuccessful attempt to 
remove the pump from the borehole and that damage had occurred to the sleeve for the 
borehole which prevented removal.Fairmead concluded that there was no intervening cause of accidental damage and that the 
issue was caused by the failure of a mechanically operating part i.e. the pump, which it said 
was a policy exclusion. It also said that a mechanically operating part becoming stuck within 
a bore hole would also be excluded under the policy. It acknowledged that it was possible 
that the sleeve of the borehole could be deformed, although this had not been evidenced. 
Fairmead considered the sleeve wasnt an underground pipe in any event and wouldnt be 
covered under the policy terms. It concluded that there was no evidence of any accidental 
damage to a below-ground pipe serving the property. It said that mechanical faults and wear 
and tear were exclusions in the policy.
X and X say the specialists they instructed were one of the countrys leading experts in this 
field. They said that Fairmeads representative openly admitted that he had no knowledge of 
boreholes at all, shrugging his shoulders as he spoke and had no knowledge of how to 
access the borehole. They felt that their specialists report had been totally disregarded. X 
and X said that it wasnt fair and that theyd paid the policy premiums for many years and felt 
that Fairmead was; trying to wriggle out of paying out, outlining small print in there policy.
Ive considered the policy terms and conditions very carefully in the light of the available 
evidence and Ive considered the three available reports in the light of these terms and 
conditions. In conclusion, Im satisfied that theyre consistent in stating that the borehole 
pump had failed. X and Xs specialists confirmed that its guaranteed that such pumps will 
fail at some point. The reports are also consistent in saying that the pump couldnt be 
removed from the borehole. The reports were inconclusive however as to the reason why it 
hadnt been possible to remove the pump. 
X and Xs engineers reported that the failure of the borehole water supply was due to the 
pump being stuck down the well. Im satisfied however that it was fair and reasonable for 
Fairmead to conclude that the primary reason for the supply issue was due to failure of the 
pump. The difficulty in removing and repairing or replacing the pump from the borehole was 
a secondary issue but didnt cause the water supply interruption.
The policy terms and conditions make it clear that mechanical faults and wear and tear were 
exclusions in the policies. Im satisfied that the failure of the pump was either due to 
mechanical failure, or (as X and Xs specialists indicate, pumps are likely to fail at some 
point), due to general wear and tear. In both instances, the failure of a pump would be 
excluded from cover under X and Xs policy. 
I appreciate that this will come as a great disappointment to X and X and that resolution of 
the borehole water supply issue was extremely costly for them. I cant say that this was due 
to Fairmeads actions however, or that Fairmead has acted unfairly in applying the wording 
of its insurance policy.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold X and Xs complaint and I dont require 
Fairmead Insurance Limited to do any more in response to their complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and X to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman