DRN-3473427
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly applied an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only mortgage with Barclays in 2012 over a ten-year term 
 so due to expire in September 2022. 
Mr and Mrs S said they spoke to Barclays letting them know their plans to purchase another 
property in cash then port the mortgage to the new property (move their current product to 
the new property) once they sold their mortgaged property. Mr and Mrs S said that Barclays 
told them they would be able to do this, as long as they did this within 90 days of selling the 
mortgaged property. In August 2020, Mr and Mrs S took out another fixed rate product for 
two years. 
In June 2020, Mr and Mrs S said they were informed that a property they had made a bid on 
a few months earlier was available again, but they would need to complete the purchase by 
4 September 2020. 
Mr and Mrs S contacted Barclays in August 2020 to start the application to port their 
mortgage but they were told they didnt meet Barclays lending criteria for an interest only 
mortgage, so they wouldnt be able to port the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S have said it was always their intention to purchase the property before selling 
their mortgaged property and they would then port the mortgage over to the new property. 
Mr and Mrs S said they were not told that they were not able to do this, and had they known 
this, they wouldnt have entered a two-year fixed rate on 1 August 2020. They said they 
would have stayed on the standard variable rate mortgage and avoided the ERC that they 
have since been charged. 
Barclays said that Mr and Mrs S didnt meet their lending criteria for an interest only 
mortgage due to the time left on the mortgage. They also said that because Mr and Mrs S 
bought the property outright, they wouldnt be able to port the mortgage over to the new 
property. 
Mr and Mrs S brought the complaint to our service where it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. Our investigator asked Barclays for the telephone calls from June 2020 where 
Mr S said he discussed moving onto another fixed rate, and from August 2020 where he said 
he was told he couldnt port the mortgage. Barclays couldnt provide any of these calls or 
any call notes relating to them. After considering this, our investigator didnt uphold the 
complaint and didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They said they had around £125,000 in savings which they could 
have used, and they wouldnt have entered into a two-year fixed rate if they didnt think they 
would be able to port this over to the new property. They said they wouldnt have done this 
as it made no logical sense. Mr and Mrs S said they were told by a Barclays agent that they 
would be able to port the mortgage as long as they did so within 90 days and Mr S wouldnt 
have known this unless he was told.
As Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy, they asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.  
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 27 April 2022. I said:
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator but for slightly different reasons so I will give both 
parties a chance to respond before I issue my final decision on the matter. 
The crux of the matter here is that Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that they have been 
unable to port their existing mortgage to a new property and have had to pay an ERC 
of around £2,500 plus an exit fee of £200 when they redeemed their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs S have told us that they called Barclays to discuss porting their mortgage 
and said they explained to the adviser their intention to purchase the new property in 
cash first. Mr and Mrs S have told us that this call would have happened between 1 
April and 1 August 2020. 
Barclays have told us that Mr and Mrs S were not able to port their mortgage to a 
new property because they didnt meet their lending criteria because the mortgage 
was on interest only, with only a short term remaining. Barclays also said that 
because Mr and Mrs S had already purchased the property outright, porting wouldnt 
have been an option. 
Mr S is adamant that he spoke with someone to discuss his intentions, and he knows 
he called Barclays a couple of times between April and August 2020, but he strongly 
believes the key call happened in June 2020. But Barclays are unable to locate this 
call recording. I have also looked at the contact notes that Barclays have provided 
and there is no evidence to suggest that Mr S called in June. Thats not to say it 
didnt happen, just that there is nothing to show that he did. 
We asked Mr S to try and obtain evidence that he spoke to Barclays during this time 
and the only records he has been able to provide us, are itemised phone records 
which show that he called Barclays on 21 August 2020 and he was on the phone for 
around eight minutes. His phone provider hasnt been able to send him any other 
information which would show that he called them between April and August 2020. 
Barclays have since been able to locate the call recording from August 2020 which is 
most likely the call that is shown on Mr S itemised phone records. 
Ive listened to this telephone call and Mr S contacts Barclays to discuss making an 
application to port his mortgage. On this call he explains the position that they are in 
and that he is looking to purchase the new property in cash and wanting to port the 
mortgage to the new property once his current property has been sold. 
Mr S makes it clear that his mortgage will be paid off one way or the other and 
queries any fees that would apply. The adviser explains that Mr S would incur an 
ERC and an exit fee if the mortgage was redeemed. Mr S says that it wasnt worth 
paying the ERC so he would just put his money into savings for the time being and 
port the mortgage. 
The adviser then explained to Mr S that because there were only a couple of years 
left on the mortgage, it wasnt possible to port the mortgage, and he asked Mr S if he 
would be willing to extend the term of the mortgage to five years to enable that to 
happen. Mr S said that he isnt working as he is now retired so he didnt think that 
Barclays would let him extend the term anyway. 
It was then established on the call that it wouldnt be possible for Mr S to port the 
mortgage to the new property because the mortgage was on interest only and this 
didnt meet Barclays lending criteria. Mr S asked if anything could be done about the fees as the £2,500 ERC was quite a 
lot of money to pay,  and the adviser confirmed the fees would not be waived and the 
only way they might be  is to log a complaint.
Mr S explained that he doesnt necessarily want them waived and would be happy if 
they were halved. Mr S also said as a last resort he would pay the mortgage off and 
pay the ERC but would rather not do that. 
Mr S then went on to say that he would like someone to look into the fees because 
he was only two months into a new fixed rate. The adviser then asks if Mr S thought 
about this when he took out the fixed rate  in terms of then being tied into a product. 
Mr S then explains that both he and Mrs S were thinking about moving but missed 
out on a couple of properties so didnt think they would bother after that. But then just 
over two weeks ago, a property came on the market and the sellers wanted a quick 
sale, so they made an offer to purchase it in cash and it was accepted. Mr S said this 
all only happened over a couple of weeks. 
Having listened to this call, although its clear that Mr S would rather not pay the 
ERC, he understands that he needs to pay it if he is going to pay his mortgage off. Mr 
and Mrs S have argued that they spoke to someone possibly in June 2020 about 
porting their mortgage and that they wouldnt have entered into a fixed rate if they 
thought there would be an issue with doing so. But there wasnt any debate on the 
August call about what he was told previously.  If this was the case, I would have 
expected Mr S to let the adviser know about the conversation he had earlier with 
Barclays, but this didnt happen. Instead, Mr S agreed to log a complaint to see if 
anything could be done about the ERC. 
It sounds like when Mr S took out the fixed rate, which was applied for online, moving 
property might not have been something that they intended on going through with 
again in the short term as they had missed out on a couple of properties. 
There is no evidence to suggest that he did ask to port the mortgage earlier or 
explain that the purchase was going to be made in cash. He may well have spoken to 
Barclays earlier but there was no mention of this discussion in the call that I listened 
to which is something I would have expected.  
This sounded like the first time Mr S was aware that he wouldnt be able to port his 
mortgage due to the lending criteria not being met. So its possible that he didnt think 
this was a problem prior to this call. I also note that Mr S is unhappy that Barclays 
changed their lending criteria and didnt inform him about this, but Barclays didnt 
have to do this. So while I understand that Mr S may not have taken out a fixed rate 
had he known this, he did apply and take out a new fixed rate online so he wouldnt 
have spoken to anyone at Barclays about this. 
There are certain rules that Barclays need to follow when thinking about whether to 
agree to allow a borrower to port  and these rules are set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA). Barclays have said that Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have been 
allowed to port the mortgage over because it was on interest only with only a short 
term remaining  but this isnt a valid argument due to the rules in place. 
However, Mr and Mrs S agreed to purchase the new property in cash from the 
outset, so they were never going to be able to port their mortgage to a property that 
they already owned. 
I know that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with my provisional decision, but I dont 
think that Barclays have acted unreasonably.
DevelopmentsBarclays responded to the provisional decision and accepted what I had said. Mr and Mrs S 
asked us for a copy of the telephone call that I had listened to. We sent this call recording to 
Mr and Mrs S.
Mr S then made the following comments with regards to the telephone call he had with 
Barclays:
He was clear he was under the impression he could port the mortgage and that he 
was enquiring as to the best time to start the process or whether he would be 
penalised for paying it off. If he was to be penalised, he would prefer not to port.
It is also clear that he was surprised that he did not meet the criteria either to port the 
mortgage or to take out another mortgage for a five-year term
He cannot explain why he didnt tell the adviser that he had been given information 
previously which led him to believe he could port the mortgage
He was not surprised that there was to be an early repayment charge. He never 
intended to repay the mortgage so this would have been irrelevant to him
The adviser uses terms such as we are forcing you to pay it back and we are 
putting you in this position. Clearly the adviser understands that Mr S was under the 
impression he could port the mortgage
He is trying to avoid confrontation and a long drawn out issue by suggesting a 
compromise of reduced fees. Maybe he should have said that as it was Barclays who 
put him in this position, they should waive all the fees?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought very carefully about the comments that Mr S has made but they do not 
change my opinion on the matter. 
I dont disagree that Mr S was under the impression on the telephone call that he could port 
the mortgage and that he was trying to establish the best time to do this. I also accept that it 
was the first time he was told he didnt meet Barclays lending criteria. As I said in my 
provisional decision, it sounded like this was the first time Mr S realised he wouldnt be able 
to port his mortgage due to the change in lending criteria. 
But my point remains the same. If Mr S had spoken to someone in June 2020 regarding 
porting the mortgage to a property that he intended to purchase in cash and was told it 
wouldnt be an issue, I would have expected Mr S to argue this on the telephone call. He 
wasnt surprised that he had to pay an ERC and even though Mr S says this was irrelevant 
because he didnt  have any intentions of repaying the mortgage  he was told on this call 
that the ERC was going to apply. 
He didnt argue that he was told prior to this call that porting the mortgage wouldnt be an 
issue. Nothing at all was mentioned about what he was told previously in June. And as Ive 
already mentioned, I would have expected this to have been discussed. This isnt about 
being confrontational  its what I would have expected.
I do appreciate the adviser made some comments which alluded to Barclays putting Mr and 
Mrs S in the position they were in. But I dont think the issue here is whether or not the 
adviser was under the impression that Mr and Mrs S could port the mortgage. The adviser 
made it clear that Mr and Mrs S were not able to port and based on the discussion that was 
had, Im not persuaded that Barclays told Mr and Mrs S prior to the August telephone call 
that they would be able to port their mortgage to a property they were purchasing in cash. Mr and Mrs S decided to enter into a fixed rate and did so online and were charged an ERC 
when that mortgage was redeemed  in line with their contract with Barclays. 
Without going into a considerable amount of detail again, the comments I made in my 
provisional decision still stand, and I see no reason to depart from them.
I understand that Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision, but I wont be asking 
Barclays to refund the ERC to Mr and Mrs S. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman