DRN-4003339
The complaint
Miss B complains Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) restricted and then closed her accounts 
without explanation causing her substantive distress and inconvenience. 
What happened
In March 2022, following an internal review, Lloyds restricted Miss Bs accounts and sent her 
notice it would be closing them in two months time. 
Miss B was told no payments could be made from the account, which included her standing 
orders and direct debits during the time of the restriction. But Miss B could withdraw funds 
from a Lloyds branch and pay funds into her account before they were closed. 
Miss B was able to withdraw money from the accounts from a Lloyds branch. But Miss B 
says on one occasion she was told erroneously in one of the branches to travel to another. 
Unhappy with Lloyds actions, Miss B complained. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint saying its terms allow it to close the accounts 
without explanation. In a later response, Lloyds awarded Miss B £50 compensation for being 
told incorrectly she would need to travel to another branch to withdraw her money. 
Miss B referred her complaint to this service. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint, and in summary they found: 
- Lloyds acted in line with its terms and conditions, and wider obligations when 
restricting and closing Miss Bs accounts
- Miss B was able to withdraw funds from the account shortly after, so there wasnt any 
inconvenience caused in terms of accessing the funds 
- They appreciated Miss B had to go to a branch to withdraw funds, but thats what 
Lloyds would be expected to do if restricting and closing an account in this way 
- No evidence of a parking fine has been given by Miss B, so theyre unable to say 
Lloyds should refund this 
Miss B did not agree with what our Investigator said and asked for an ombudsman to decide 
her complaint. The deadline for further responses from both Miss B and Lloyds has now 
passed. It follows Miss Bs complaint has now been passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will disappoint Miss B, 
so Ill explain why. 
Banks in the UK, like Lloyds, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having seen Lloyds reasons for placing restrictions on Miss Bs accounts, Im satisfied its 
done so in line with the obligations it must follow - and has done so fairly. 
Lloyds is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before a Lloyds closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms 
and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which Lloyds and Miss B had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice  the reasons given 
for this are if Lloyds reasonably think: 
-there is illegal or fraudulent activity on or connected to the account;
-you [customer] are or may be behaving improperly (for example in a threatening or 
abusive way);
-by continuing the agreement we (or any other company in the Lloyds Banking Group) 
may be exposed to action from any government, regulator or other authority or may 
break a regulatory requirement; or
-you [customer] have seriously or repeatedly broken this agreement in any other way 
Having carefully considered the above, and Lloyds other terms of account, Im satisfied its 
acted fairly and applied the terms of the account properly in both restricting and closing the 
accounts in the way it has. 
I know Miss B would like an explanation, but neither I, nor Lloyds are under any obligation, 
that Im aware of, to do so. I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in 
confidence. We may treat evidence from banks as confidential for several reasons  for 
example, if it contains security information, or commercially sensitive information.
Some of the information Lloyds has provided is information we consider should be kept 
confidential.
Miss B says this matter has caused her substantive distress and inconvenience, and 
financial loss by incurring charges for failed regular payments like direct debits.  
I do appreciate Lloyds actions wouldve caused Miss B some difficulty. But having looked at 
whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might make an award 
against Lloyds given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its own procedures when it 
closed Miss Bs accounts. 
So Im not going to ask Lloyds to compensate Miss B for any trouble and upset this may 
have caused. Nor will I be asking it to compensate Miss B for any financial loss for missed 
payment charges or a parking fine. Thats because I havent seen any evidence of such loss, 
and I think by giving Miss B access to her funds pretty much straight after the restrictions 
were placed, she wouldve been able to make regular payment commitments in alternative 
ways. Miss B was also responsible for parking her car responsibly, and I dont think Lloyds did 
anything wrong by asking her to withdraw funds in branch. Lastly, I note Lloyds gave Miss B 
£50 for poor customer service given she was told in error to go from one branch to another. I 
dont think it needs to do anymore.  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 August 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman