DRN-2952975
The complaint
Mr H complains that Close Brothers Limited refused to let him reject a faulty car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such this service is 
able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers are also the supplier of the goods 
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
Having read Close Brothers contemporaneous notes from the beginning of the finance 
agreement I can see that initially Mr H reported his concerns about the dealer. However, I 
note that he told Close Brothers that the initial issues had been addressed and I can see that 
the dealer reported replacing the battery. 
However, in December 2020 he told the business that he had personal problems and he was 
seeking some means by which he could return the car as he was struggling to make the 
monthly payments. A little over a week later he reported further faults with the car. I gather a 
warning light came on and it went into limp mode. The RAC roadside assistance report 
states:
customer reported warning light on code read ,,showing absolute manifold pressure. ,clear 
codes ,customer road test with no faults,,,,,,,customer has been advised vehicle requires 
further investigation.
I note this does not confirm the warning light was on and it seems that once the codes were 
cleared no faults were found to be present.
The car was subjected to an independent inspection some five weeks later and its 
conclusions read as follows:
We would conclude the vehicle does have several faults including vibration from the 
steering and a judder from the brakes and abnormal noises emanating from the vehicle 
when the engine is revved under acceleration and also displaying a slight turbo noise.
We were unable to replicate a fault with the vehicle entering limp mode although we were 
able to demonstrate a fault with the vehicles tailgate as it would not open via the opening 
button on the tailgate and would only open via the key fob.
Due to the time and mileage elapsed since date of vehicle purchase we do not consider the 
faults to have been developing at sale and therefore the selling agent does not have any 
responsibility with regard to the costs
Mr says that shortly after this the warning light came on and he has recently submitted a 
quote for work on the car for some £2,652. This is to fit a turbocharger.  
To allow me to uphold this complaint and require the business to accept rejection of the car I 
have to be satisfied that it wasnt fit for purpose at the time of sale in June 2020. It is clear 
there were some issues, but the car was repaired by the dealer and according to the notes 
at the time Mr H notified Close Brothers that this was resolved. The independent expert does 
not agree that the car wasnt fir for purpose at the point of same and I do not have sufficient 
evidence to reach a different conclusion.
I have noted that Mr H was able to cover some 6,700 miles in the first seven months he had 
the car and this would indicate that it was of suitable quality when he first acquired it. I would 
add that it was some eight years old and had done over 100,000 miles and so a degree of 
wear and tear is to be expected. Quite simply the car was originally an expensive model and 
in due course parts will suffer wear and tear and replacement costs will be more expensive 
than cheaper cars.
I have every sympathy with Mr H, but I do not consider I can safely conclude that the car 
wasnt fit for purpose and so I cannot uphold his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman