DRN-3942524
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complained through their former representative (T) that First Holiday Finance 
Limited (FHF) didnt fairly or reasonably deal with their complaint under Sections 75 or 140A 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased on 24 
August 2009. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were provided with a free holiday by a timeshare provider with whom they 
were already customers as members of its Vacation Club. As a condition of that they had to 
attend a meeting and sales presentation on 1 July 2009 during which they upgraded their 
Vacation Club membership by purchasing an additional 501 points  which enabled them to 
purchase more holidays from within Cs portfolio. The purchase agreement was between 
Vacation Resorts Limited (C) and Mr and Mrs B. The sale took place on 24 August 2009. 
And they paid £5,259 in total for the points, of which FHF funded £4,759.  
As I understand it Mr and Mrs B took 13 weeks holiday through C over a period of four years 
until 2013, when they stopped paying maintenance charges. They subsequently complained 
through T that the product had been misrepresented to them and that they were pressurised 
into buying it. They said they were required to buy further points every year. Mr and Mrs B 
were presented by T with a number of examples of the sort of misrepresentations which it is 
alleged are made at these sorts of presentations and asked to indicate which ones applied to 
them. Also in Mr and Mrs Bs case their written answers to further questions posed to them 
were as follows:
Q What did they tell you? 
A. The resorts and size of apartment will always be available.
Q Why was the statement false?
A They were not available.
Q Why was it of material significance to you? 
A We could never use it.
Q What did they tell you? 
A That the standard of the apartment will always match or exceed the show one.
Q Why was the statement false? 
A Because they were nothing like the sales one.
Q Why was it of material significance to you? 
A False advertising.
T later produced a witness statement signed by Mr and Mrs B. In that statement they alleged 
that they had to buy points each year and that they could not obtain the holidays they 
wanted and that on some occasions no inventory was available. They also complained about 
not being given certain documents, and the contract. They relied on the questionnaire as  
similar fact evidence i.e. (I believe) that other consumers have made similar allegations. 
They alleged that the holiday club was dormant and that its products were a delusion. T 
further alleged that insufficient credit checks had been carried out by FHF before lending the 
money.
FHF responded to the complaint. It pointed out that the consumers didnt need to buy any 
additional points, though had to pay maintenance charges to continue enjoying the benefit of 
the membership. It pointed out that Mr and Mrs B had attended similar presentations before 
and had had the benefit of a number of holidays. It said the club provided genuine benefits. 
Our adjudicator reviewed the complaint in December 2020. She said that the claim under 
s75 was out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (LA)  it should have been raised within 
six years of the date of the cause of action i.e. July 2009, but Mr and Mrs B didnt raise their 
claim until October 2017. 
She also considered s140A CCA. She considered the various points and said that she 
thought it unlikely that the courts would find that there was an unfair debtor creditor 
relationship.
T raised various points in response:
That FHF had filed to provide a proper final response letter but that it had been allowed 
by us to provide an amended final response.
That FHF had failed to draw attention to a case in the Spanish court of appeal which 
confirmed its point that the selling of holiday points was a delusion and fraudulent. The 
Vacation Club was a dormant company and didnt receive or pay out any money.
FHF is a subsidiary of Club la Costa (UK) PLC, therefore the vendor, the Club and the 
Respondents are all connected to each other. These entities are all in administration.
FHF has been allowed to introduce new evidence by the Financial Ombudsman Service 
and denied the consumers access to that evidence.
It contends that the cause of action under the Limitation Act only arose at the time that 
Mr and Mrs B knew (or could be reasonably expected to know) that there had been 
misrepresentations. 
C didnt have the authority to sell finance.
And in response to that FHF said:
Mr and Mrs B had been allowed to respond the investigators view after eleven months 
rather than the fourteen days allowed in the view.
Mr and Mrs Bs membership of the Vacation Club was suspended after their failure to 
pay membership fees.
Neither the supplier of the holiday club points nor FHF are in administration.
The timeshare agreement is governed by English Law  so the Spanish case referred to is irrelevant.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Mr and Mrs Bs claim under 
s75 CCA would be out of time under the LA, so it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to uphold 
the complaint in respect of this claim. In respect of s140A CCA, I didnt find that it was likely 
that a court would find there was any unfair relationship between Mr and Mrs B and FHF. 
Neither party has made any substantive response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings, below in italics:
process
Before I go on to make my provisional findings, I will comment on a few matters the parties 
have raised concerning our process. Firstly as part of our inquisitorial and impartial remit our 
investigators will of course ask both sides for comments and/or further evidence. Whilst any 
such information will not automatically be shared with both sides, Mr and Mrs B are free to 
ask for documents concerning their complaint from our file.
On the question of whether the final response was a proper response, I wont go into that 
since its not part of my remit. I think I have enough evidence to make a decision, subject to 
what the parties may say in response to these provisional findings.
In respect of Mr and Mrs Bs response to our investigators view this was, I believe, misdated 
19 December 2021. It was sent by T to us on 19 January 2021, (so presumably should have 
been dated 2020) after the adjudicator gave it a 2 week extension to reply.
In making these findings I should advise both parties that the Financial Ombudsman is an 
informal alternative dispute resolution service. So whilst I have looked at the information 
provided by both sides I wont be providing a point by point response. Instead I will just deal 
with what I consider to be relevant points.
Section 75 of the CCA: Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against C would ordinarily be made under Section
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors
[2012] that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded in tort for the purposes
of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of
action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr and Mrs B made a like claim against FHF under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation 
period for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. This means that 
they had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr and Mrs B entered 
into the purchase and/or credit agreements. I say this because they entered into the 
purchase agreement based on the alleged misrepresentations of C  which they relied on. 
And as the finance from FHF was used to help pay for the purchase, it was when they 
entered into the credit agreement that they suffered a loss.It follows, therefore, that the cause of action accrued when Mr and Mrs B entered into the 
purchase agreement or, if later, when they entered into the credit agreement to finance the 
purchase  which means they had six years from either of those points in time to make this 
claim. But as he didnt do that until October 2017, and as I cant see a reason why they had 
more time to make this claim in keeping with the relevant provisions of the LA, I think FHF 
had and has a defence to it under the LA.
T argues that a cause of action arose when Mr and Mrs B first knew that there had been a 
misrepresentation i.e. when they were advised by T. It points out that any complaint made to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service must be made within six years after the event complained 
of or (if later) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that they had cause for complaint. And T argues that 
there is similar provision under s14A LA. But the LA is not to be confused with the Financial 
Ombudsman Services jurisdiction as theyre two separate sets of rules. Whats more, s14A 
only applies in respect of actions for negligence. And for that, the defendant in any claim 
had/has to owe a duty of care to the claimant. As I havent seen any evidence that such a 
duty arose in this case, that provision  in my view  didnt and doesnt extend the relevant 
limitation period..
s140A
Nevertheless M and Mrs B can still make a claim under this section of CCA, as any action 
would arise after the loan had been paid off and I understand the loan is still being repaid. 
The section provides:
(1) The court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit agreement 
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising out of the 
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is unfair to the debtor 
because of one or more of the following
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement.
(b) the way in which the creditor has exercised or enforced any of his rights under the 
agreement or any related agreement.
(c) any other thing done (or not done) by, or on behalf of, the creditor (either before or after 
the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
Only a court can make an order under this section, but I can take into account whether it 
would be likely that the court would make such an order.
Mr and Mrs B argue that the sale of the holiday points was misrepresented to them. A 
misrepresentation in law is a statement of fact or law made by one party to a contract to the 
other that:
isnt true; and
induces the person to whom its made into the contract.
Having not been present at the sale in August 2009, it isnt possible for me to determine with 
certainty what Mr and Mrs B were or werent told by C. But in the end, the part their 
testimony plays here comes down to how much it can be relied on. And neither Mr nor Mrs B 
have set out in any detail what was said and by whom, such that Im persuaded that there 
were representations by C that, being likely to be untrue, induced them  into the contract. So whilst I understand that the sales presentation attended by Mr and Mrs Bs may have 
been used to extol the virtues of the product in question, I cant say that its more likely than 
not that there was a factual and material misrepresentation by C. 
T suggests that C was part of a corporate structure that was fraudulent  and points to a 
Spanish court case to support its argument. In short, T says that the club Mr and Mrs B 
joined didnt actually receive the money they paid, nor did it provide them any benefits under 
the timeshare. Having read the lengthy submissions made on this point, I fail to see what the 
alleged fraud actually was  such that the relationship between Mr and Mrs B and FHF could 
be said to have been unfair as a result of it. And as far as I can see, they took out a 
timeshare and it worked in the way it was intended to, i.e. they were able to use it to take 
holidays. I dont think that, just because C was part of a corporate structure that involved 
different parts taking payment from Mr and Mrs B and supplying them the services they paid 
for, there was some sort of ongoing attempt to defraud them  nor do I think that a Spanish 
judgment saying that one part of the corporate structure was liable to pay damages awarded 
against another part means that the relevant debtor-creditor relationship was unfair
pressure selling
The evidence for this comes from the questionnaire Mr and Mrs B completed. Other 
evidence that T has produced consists of allegations made by other consumers. But I 
understand that that evidence also concerns other loan suppliers, other products, and 
different sales representatives. And without an explanation of how and why such evidence 
relates to what was said to Mr and Mrs B, I cant see that it is relevant.  Ive not seen 
sufficient evidence to show that Mr and Mrs B in particular were pressured into buying the 
timeshare points rather that there was a pressured environment. And the allegation that they 
had to buy more points every year has been shown not to be factually correct. I dont uphold 
the complaint about pressure selling.
English case of Wilson v Link financial
T asserts that this case applies to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. As I understand it that case 
found that a provision whereby the purchasers right to the provision of the timeshare could 
be extinguished by the failure to pay maintenance fees was unfair. However as I understand 
it Mr and Mrs Bs membership has been suspended, not extinguished, because of their 
refusal to pay maintenance fees, not connected to any financial difficulties. Under the rules 
set out in its Articles of Association at the time the contract was signed, I agree that there 
was potential for unfairness in that Mr and Mrs Bs membership could have been withdrawn 
for failure to pay fees. However that position was altered in December 2015, when CLCs 
articles were amended. And as a result Im persuaded that a membership can be suspended 
but fees will not continue to accrue. That appears to be the position here, so I dont think, in 
the circumstances that its likely that a Court would find there to be an unfair debtor creditor 
relationship as a result of this.
the supplier not being regulated to sell finance
Our records indicate that C was covered under the Financial Ombudsman Services 
consumer credit jurisdiction from 22 January 2009 until 25 August 2011. C would have not 
come under the Services consumer credit jurisdiction unless it had the necessary consumer 
credit licence. I am persuaded, therefore, that it was properly authorised as a consumer 
credit broker when the loan was arranged in August 2009.
irresponsible lendingIts also alleged that FHF failed to carry put proper credit checks before providing the loan. 
However Mr and Mrs B havent provided any details about the affordability or otherwise of 
the loan. Without such evidence I cant say that the loan wasnt properly supplied.
overall
I think Mr and Mrs Bs claim under s75 CCA would be out of time under the LA, so it wouldnt 
be fair and reasonable to uphold the complaint in respect of this claim. I dont find that it is 
likely that a court would find there was any unfair relationship between Mr and Mrs B and 
FHF. 
As neither party has made any further comments, I remain persuaded by my provisional 
findings which are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
 I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman