DRN-2392223
The complaint
Mr M complains that when he bought a motor insurance policy through BISL Limited he was 
charged unfairly for a non-fault incident he reported to it. 
What happened
Mr M got a quote for a policy online and then called BISL - an intermediary that sells and 
administers insurance policies - to complete the purchase. During the call he told the advisor 
about a non-fault incident involving his car in 2016. He said he hadnt mentioned it in the 
online application, as he thought it wasnt relevant. The advisor told him that all incidents, 
regardless of blame, had to be disclosed. He then checked the price again, having added 
the new information, and it had risen by £52. Mr M wasnt happy with that, but he bought the 
policy and later made a complaint about the extra charge. 
In its reply to his complaint, BISL said the advisor had made Mr M aware before he bought 
the policy that the price had changed, so he was able to make an informed decision about 
whether to buy it. BISL didnt think it had done anything wrong, but Mr M didnt agree.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He confirmed that all incidents, 
regardless of blame, must be declared by consumers when buying a policy. He said Mr M 
had been advised correctly by BISL of the rise in price when the non-fault incident was 
noted. So he could have declined the policy then - or cancelled it within the 14-day cooling-
off period. 
Mr M said he shouldnt have been penalised for a mistake made by another driver, when he 
wasnt even in his car at the time, and her insurer had accepted full liability for it. He asked 
for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. Mr M said the principle he wanted to be 
addressed was the ability of insurers to impose extra premiums on innocent motorists. Mr M 
also provided a photo showing the circumstances of the non-fault claim.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of BISLs role in selling and administrating policies on behalf of insurers is to ensure that 
the details a consumer has entered online are correct. If they arent, the quote generated 
online may be wrong. And should a claim later be made on the policy, if some of the 
information given by a consumer is wrong, or incomplete, it may mean the claim isnt paid. 
So I think it was essential for BISLs advisor to check and amend the details as he did.
Most insurers make a charge if they know a consumer has been involved in a non-fault 
claim. Mr M - and many others - disagree with that on principle. I think its understandable 
that they take that view. But its for an insurer to decide what it wants to charge for the risk it 
thinks its covering. Insurers say the statistics show that if a consumer has been involved in a 
non-fault incident, the risk of that consumer being involved in another incident rises. 
BISL isnt responsible for the approach taken by insurers or for the premiums they charge. I 
think BISLs advisor acted correctly in adding the details of Mr Ms non-fault incident. And 
had Mr M entered those details himself whilst online, the quote would have been the same 
as the one the advisor gave him. The new price reflected the insurers criteria, not BISLs. 
As Mr M was advised of the new price before he bought the policy, it was for him to decide 
whether to accept or decline it. Mr M says he didnt have time to look around for other 
quotes, but BISL cant be held at fault for that. I think it did all it could be expected to do by 
advising Mr M appropriately and allowing him to decide what to do next. 
Its open to Mr M to complain to the insurer that set the price for the policy - bearing in mind 
that insurers have the right to make their own commercial decisions. But as I dont think 
BISL did anything wrong in the way it sold and administered the policy, I cant uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.       
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman