DRN-4089312
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complained about the remortgage of their rented property with TSB Bank plc. 
They wanted a fixed rate mortgage, but some months later, realised they had a tracker rate. 
Mr F is adamant he selected a fixed rate online, so he wants TSB to change this.
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr and Mrs F, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, our dealings have been with Mr F. So Ill mainly refer to him in this decision. 
Mr F has told us he has a diagnosis of autism.
Mr F said he applied online, in late September 2022, for a Buy To Let remortgage with TSB. 
He said hed always had fixed rate mortgages, and that is what he wanted this time. Mr F 
said he realised in December 2022 that he hadnt been given a fixed rate mortgage, because 
the payment taken for that month was significantly higher. 
Mr F said TSB told him hed opted for a tracker mortgage online. He said he did not 
knowingly do that. And he said TSB told him hed signed up to the tracker mortgage on the 
paper copy of the documentation he was then sent by TSB. 
Mr F said he wouldnt have read the whole of those documents. He said his diagnosis of 
autism means this is difficult for him. And he felt the papers he received were ambiguous. He 
thought he would have turned straight to section 3, headed "Interest rate and other costs" 
and read the following - "a current rate payable of 3.34% that will apply from completion 
until 30/11/24. Followed by a variable rate....". 
Mr F said TSB wasnt trying to sort this out, and had denied making any mistake. And he 
said the rate change letters TSB issued didnt alert him to the problem, because these both 
said "If you've recently asked us to transfer some or all of your mortgage to another product 
you can ignore this letter. Well write to you separately about your new product and monthly 
payment.
Mr F said when he was discussing the complaint response with TSB, its agent said that 
there were many people in the same position as Mr F, who applied online and found they 
didnt get the rate they wanted. So he thought there was a problem with TSBs procedures at 
the time. Mr F said he wanted TSB to apply the rate and mortgage type that he was 
confident hed chosen back in September 2022. 
TSB didnt think it had made a mistake. It said its records showed that Mr F applied online 
for a tracker mortgage, which was then at 3.34%. TSB felt that its online system explained 
the application to Mr F. And it said it had written to him since, telling him his mortgage 
payments were going up due to increases in the Bank of England rate. TSB said it wouldnt 
apply the fixed interest rate that Mr F could have chosen in September 2022, to his 
mortgage now. But he could choose a new fixed rate if he wanted to. 
Mr F said hed been trying to work out why TSB thought hed taken out a tracker mortgage, 
and he thought it must be a problem with the website, perhaps as a result of poor design 
making the site prone to unintentional changes. He didnt think customers could be held 
responsible for that. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He accepted Mr F had intended 
to choose a fixed rate, but he didnt think TSB had made a mistake. He hadnt seen evidence 
that the mortgage product could change during an online application, and said that the 
documents then sent to Mr F did make clear that the rate he applied for was a tracker rate. 
The Interest rate section Mr F had referred to said the rate was: 
The Bank of England Base Rate, currently 1.75%, with a loading of 1.59%, giving a 
current rate payable of 3.34% that will apply from completion until 30/11/2024
And our investigator noted that, in section two under the heading main features of the 
mortgage it shows the rate to be:
A variable rate which tracks the Bank of England Base Rate until 30/11/2024
So our investigator said, considering the online application Mr F completed, and the 
information provided in the offer and illustration which Mr F needed to read and agree to, he 
couldnt say TSB had made an error. 
Our investigator said hed checked with TSB if there were any other customers who 
experienced this, but TSB said there werent. 
Mr F replied to object. He wanted our service to consider if TSBs fraud guarantee was 
relevant here. He said he assumed the investigator thought hed made an error. He asked 
whether TSBs website had been tested for autism friendliness. He said our investigators 
description of the website didnt match with his recollections. He wanted to know how many 
other people had applied for the tracker mortgage at the same time. And he said TSB had 
told him other people were affected by the same problem as him, so either TSB had lied to 
him or it was lying to our service. Mr F was also concerned about the standard of proof we 
would require to uphold his complaint. 
Our investigator contacted TSB, for some more information. Then he wrote to Mr F again. 
He still didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said it was possible Mr F had 
incorrectly selected a rate, rather than the screen changing it. And he didnt have evidence 
to suggest the website caused the error.
Our investigator noted that TSB said it does work to ensure its websites and apps are 
accessible to all customers and meet appropriate standards, although it wouldnt be able to 
confirm if this was user friendly for individual requirements such as autism. Our investigator 
noted that Mr F hadnt told us hed informed TSB that he had a diagnosis of autism, so our 
investigator said he needed to consider how TSB couldve done more to help if it wasnt 
aware that Mr F may have needed additional support. Our investigator asked if Mrs F wasnt 
able to check the application and offer too.
Our investigator said TSB had confirmed it had a problem at the time of Mr Fs application, 
but this wasnt what had gone wrong for Mr F. It was a problem with one particular product, 
not the same product Mr F applied for, and it manifested in a different way. And finally, our 
investigator said he didnt think TSBs fraud guarantee was relevant here. Mr F wrote again after this, a number of times. He said he felt our service was ignoring what 
hed said. He repeated that he didnt recognise the process our investigator described, and 
said he wanted to see what TSB said hed have seen when he applied. When our 
investigator showed him the screenshots TSB had sent us, Mr F said those werent of his 
specific application, so he didnt think they would help. Our investigator said that TSB 
wouldnt have screenshots of the actual application. Mr F asked why TSB hadnt sent our 
service the data the website captured. 
Mr F said if TSB had accepted that other customers had problems, that showed things could 
go wrong with the web application. He wanted to know how many other people applied for 
the same sort of mortgage, a tracker, on that day. Our investigator said he didnt think that 
would help resolve things in this case.
Mr F didnt think our service was assessing things against a standard of fairness. He thought 
we were favouring TSB. He said if our services conclusion was either that he made an 
honest mistake or that he was unhinged in some way, then in either of those circumstances, 
he thought the fair outcome would be to give him a fixed-rate mortgage deal.
Mr F asked why TSB hadnt emailed him immediately with confirmation of the mortgage 
product hed opted to switch to. 
Mr F wanted to stress that this mortgage would cost him many thousands more. He wanted 
to know how much more he would have to pay on his mortgage, before our service ceased 
to say it was fair. 
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Mr F has expressed concerns about the approach our service takes to decision making. 
Perhaps it will help if I set out briefly here how I will approach this case. 
Firstly, its not unusual for the facts of a case not to be proven entirely beyond doubt. What I 
need to do is to consider the evidence provided by both sides, and weigh up what is, in my 
view, most likely to have happened. 
I must then determine the  complaint by reference to what is, in [my] opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Mr F says that if he didnt consciously and intentionally choose a tracker rate (which hes 
been clear he didnt) then the only fair outcome would be to give him now, the fixed rate he 
wanted in September 2022. 
But I dont think that takes account of all the circumstances of the case. As Mr F is aware, 
interest rates have unfortunately risen since he applied for his remortgage. So if I require 
TSB to offer Mr F now, a fixed interest rate mortgage which he could have secured in 
September 2022, but cannot secure now, then Im also requiring TSB to bear any losses that 
arise out of granting Mr F a fixed mortgage rate which is very considerably lower than those 
TSB is able to offer in the current market. The evidence Ive considered in this case includes Mr Fs testimony about what he did 
online. He recalls applying for a fixed rate mortgage, and says that if a mistake was made, it 
was likely to be as a result of poor website design, which isnt his fault. 
Ive also seen the data captured as part of Mr Fs application. And this makes clear that, 
whatever Mr Fs intentions, he did apply for a tracker rate. 
TSB has shown our service, and Mr F, the process a customer goes through when they 
apply to remortgage. It has said it works to make this site user friendly, and to make sure it 
remains easy to read. I think thats a reasonable approach for TSB to take, and I dont think 
it had to do more to support Mr Fs application, particularly as it doesnt appear to have been 
aware of any reasonable adjustment he might require. 
I do think the online application process includes a number of chances to check and confirm 
the product selected. I think its unlikely that Mr Fs initial choice of a fixed rate was 
accidentally changed to a tracker during this process, as a result of poor website design, and 
Mr F didnt notice this. 
And I also think this isnt the only point when things went wrong. TSB posted Mr F an offer 
letter, confirming the details of the mortgage hed applied for. Mr F has been quite clear that 
he did not read this offer letter which was posted to him. Mr F says that his autism makes 
this more difficult for him. But he hasnt suggested TSB ought to have been aware of this, so 
I cant say TSB made a mistake in sending him documents by post. 
I know that Mr F would also have liked an email confirming his choices, but I think any email, 
if sent, was likely to be in the same format as the letter he received. This provides a 
standardised approach to setting out the details of mortgages. So I cant say TSB made a 
mistake in using that format. And I think the outcome in this case would be likely to be the 
same, if Mr F had received these documents by email rather than by post. 
Mr F did say he thought he would have read the section on interest rates, and he quoted 
from that section in his initial complaint to us. The sentence Mr F quoted part of was then set 
out in full by our investigator. It says his interest rate is: 
The Bank of England Base Rate, currently 1.75%, with a loading of 1.59%, giving a 
current rate payable of 3.34% that will apply from completion until 30/11/2024
I think that makes clear that Mr F is on a variable interest rate. The rate is set by taking the 
Bank of England base rate, then adding a percentage on top. Mr F told us he thought he 
would have read this. But what it says isnt at all consistent with the sort of mortgage Mr F 
has told us he wanted. 
Considering all the evidence in this case, I think what is most likely to have happened, is that 
Mr F made a mistake when he selected his mortgage online. And he then did not notice this 
mistake when he received the confirmation documentation, even though he thinks he did 
read the above section. 
We know that Mr F didnt notice that he didnt have the mortgage type he wanted until 
December 2022. In the intervening period, interest rates had risen. So I have to assess 
whether its fair in this case, to ask TSB to carry this burden, rather than Mr F.
Mr F also wanted me to consider this complaint in the light of TSBs fraud guarantee. Ive 
considered this guarantee, but, like our investigator, I dont think its relevant here. Thats because I dont think its reasonable to characterise what has happened in this case as 
falling within the terms of the guarantee.
Mr F wanted our service to find out how many other TSB customers had applied for a tracker 
mortgage at the same time. He said that if he was the only customer to do so, then that 
might show something was wrong with his application. Like our investigator, I dont think that 
would assist in resolving this case. I dont think an overview of how many other people had 
applied for the same mortgage type would help me decide whether Mr F had made a 
mistake in his application. And I dont think it would have meant TSB should not have acted 
on Mr Fs application either.
Mr F said TSB had accepted that other customers had problems at the same time. And he 
said that showed things could go wrong with the web application. I havent started from the 
assumption that web applications are infallible. But I do have to decide whats most likely to 
have happened here. We know TSB has recognised a problem, which it says was confined 
to a different mortgage product, and affected a number of customers so their offer document 
didnt match the product they were given. But I dont think TSB having experienced this 
specific problem with mortgage applications for one product, means its most likely 
something also went wrong with Mr Fs application, which wasnt for the same product, and 
where the offer document and product applied to his mortgage account did match.
Mr F wanted to stress that this mortgage would cost him many thousands more. He wanted 
to know how much more he would have to pay on his mortgage, before our service ceased 
to say it was fair. But Ive explained that I need to consider whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the case. And I dont think that increasing costs for Mr F in future would 
mean that it becomes fair to ask TSB to carry the burden of these costs, if it wasnt fair to 
ask it to do so before.
Ive considered the evidence and arguments of both sides carefully in this case. But I havent 
been able to agree with Mr F, that it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances, to 
require TSB to give him now the rate which he could have secured on 22 September, when 
he made his application. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 September 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman