DRN-2818915
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs A in 2001. The policy 
provided Mr and Mrs A with cover for accident, sickness and unemployment. Our adjudicator 
did not uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs As case. 
Its not entirely clear whether HSBC recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs A. But Im 
mindful that the mortgage application process and discussions that go on at that time are 
often quite lengthy, and those taking the mortgage generally have to provide quite a lot of 
information about themselves, their finances and the house theyre looking to buy. So I think 
theres a risk that, during a discussion about a mortgage, the lender might introduce PPI in a 
way a consumer might think they are recommending the policy. Its possible that happened 
in Mr and Mrs As case, so Ive kept that in mind in assessing their case. 
It seems to me that the relevant considerations in this case are materially the same as those 
set out on our website. And the main questions I need to consider are:
- If HSBC gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr and Mrs As needs?
- Did HSBC give Mr and Mrs A the information they needed to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider whether Mr 
and Mrs A are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs As complaint and Ive set out my reasons below. 
Mr and Mrs A say they didnt know the PPI had been added to their account and that they 
wouldnt have agreed to buy it.  The difficulty I have is that I cant be sure what was 
discussed between Mr and Mrs A and HSBC when the mortgage was arranged. Im also 
mindful that the application took place a number of years ago, and recollections of what 
happened can fade over time. 
HSBC has provided a copy of the details that were recorded when Mr and Mrs A applied for 
their mortgage. This suggests that PPI probably was mentioned, as there were a number of 
different insurances discussed, alongside the PPI. HSBCs records indicate Mr and Mrs A 
agreed to buy buildings and contents insurance and life cover, in addition to the PPI. It 
seems the PPI was free for the first six months, and that two premiums were paid in October 
and November 2001. HSBC says the policy was cancelled in December 2001. 
Overall, despite what Mr and Mrs A remember, on balance I think its likely that HSBC made 
them aware that PPI was optional and they chose to take it out.
As Ive already said, its not clear whether HSBC advised Mr and Mrs A to take out the 
policy. But if it did, it doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable for them based on what Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr and Mrs A were eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI terms 
and conditions.
- Mr and Mrs A say they would have received some work-related benefits if they 
couldnt work due to sickness or accident, and that they had some savings. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to their occupational benefits and wouldve 
meant Mr and Mrs A could use their work-related benefits to pay for other expenses. 
I understand their savings were put aside for a holiday, so I cant be sure that the 
money wouldve been readily available if theyd needed to use it. So I think Mr and 
Mrs A would have had some use for the policy despite their existing arrangements. 
- Mr and Mrs A werent affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys exclusions 
and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the PPI cost was made clear to Mr and Mrs A before they agreed 
to buy it. But they took out the cover knowing they would have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs A would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But as Ive already said, Mr and Mrs A werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs A would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  
overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 November 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman