The complaint
Miss A complains about what Barclays Bank UK PLC did when she told it about her financial 
difficulties. She said shed agreed a payment plan for her Barclaycard, and shed stuck to it, 
but mistakes made by Barclaycard meant it didnt recognise what shed done.
What happened
Miss A started to have financial difficulties at the end of 2018. She got in touch with Barclays 
and told it about the problem. She had a loan and a credit card with Barclays. This complaint 
only deals with her Barclaycard. Barclaycard put Miss As debt on hold a couple of times. 
Then she went through income and expenditure forms. 
Miss A thought Barclaycard completed her income and expenditure forms incorrectly. She 
said shed told Barclaycard about this, and it had amended her payments, so she could pay 
£40 off per month. But then she got letters telling her that she hadnt been keeping up with 
payments, and Barclaycard was selling her debt off to a debt management company. Miss A 
said she hadnt missed any payments. She said she suffers with anxiety, and this had 
caused her a lot of stress. She wanted Barclaycard to fix its mistake. 
Barclaycard said Miss A had missed her payment for January 2019. Shed told it in early 
February that she was getting help from a debt management charity, and looking to put a 
payment plan in place. Her card account was put on hold then. Over the next few months, 
Miss A contacted Barclaycard a couple of times, and then Barclaycard also attempted, 
unsuccessfully, to contact her. 
In July, Barclaycard set up a payment plan directly with Miss A. Shed decided not to use the 
debt management charity after all. 
Barclaycard wrote to Miss A then. It apologised for failing to call her back, as arranged, in 
July, and it paid her £50 to compensate for the level of service shed received. It also 
refunded the fees and interest on her January statement, when she first started having 
financial difficulties. And finally, it set out the arrangements for her payment plan.
Barclaycard said that, unfortunately, Miss A didnt make the agreed repayments of a little 
over £60 per month, so the plan was cancelled. Miss As account moved to Barclaycards 
recoveries team. 
Miss A then got in touch with Barclaycard, to find out what had happened. She understood 
that a plan for £40 per month had been set up. Barclaycard said that wasnt quite right, but it 
went through her income and expenditure again in October, and amended the figures. It then 
wanted her to pay £46 per month. But Barclaycard told us that, at the time it wrote to us, 
Miss A didnt have a repayment plan in place. And it said it hadnt sold Miss As debt. 
DRN-1869606Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said there mightve been some confusion 
between Miss As loan and her credit card, because the repayment on her loan was £40 per 
month. 
Our investigator said unfortunately she hadnt seen any evidence that Miss A had kept up 
with her required monthly payments on her Barclaycard. Her account is now with recoveries, 
and no further interest or charges are being applied. Our investigator suggested that Miss A 
should speak directly to Barclaycard to agree a way forward. She said she wouldnt ask 
Barclaycard to do any more. 
Miss A replied that her complaint wasnt that Barclaycard had treated her unfairly. She was 
complaining about the mistake in setting up her payment plan, which she said had caused 
defaults on her credit file. She said shed repeatedly tried to contact Barclaycard, but its 
advisors werent able to help her. 
Miss A said that although she had set up a plan for £63.02, she had also rung back the next 
day to change that. She said shed changed the plan then to £40 per month. And shed paid 
£40 per month since July, so shed kept to the arrangement she thought was in place. 
Miss A said she now understood her debt hadnt been sold. But there was a default on her 
credit file. And that had a big impact on her, because of the job she does. She wanted this 
default either removed or amended. 
Our investigator said she couldnt find any evidence that Miss As plan had been amended to 
£40 per month. She could see it had been changed to £46 in October. She said if Miss A 
could tell us when shed spoken to Barclaycard and reset her plan to £40, our investigator 
would try to get hold of this call. Our investigator said Barclaycard hadnt registered a default 
on Miss As file.
Miss A sent us an email from Barclaycard dated early October, just after Barclaycard said it 
had set up a new plan for £46 with Miss A. She said that plan hadnt been confirmed by 
Barclaycard, and this email showed it was still trying to get in touch with her, after it said the 
plan was agreed. Miss A said she was checking the date that she spoke to Barclaycard, but 
it must have been in July. And she said Barclaycard had defaulted her account, she could 
see that on her credit file. She didnt think wed taken Barclaycards mistakes into account, 
and she repeated that shed stuck to the revised payment plan for £40. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind. She said Barclaycard might not issue a letter to 
confirm a payment plan if it was agreed over the phone. And she said Miss A was still paying 
below the agreed amount. 
Miss A then emailed us again to say that it mustve been 10 August when she contacted 
Barclaycard to amend the standing order. She said that texts from Barclays showed she had 
amended her standing order to Barclaycard then.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Miss A said the payment plan Barclaycard had set up was wrong. She told us shed 
called back soon after the plan was set up for £63.02, and changed the plan to £40 per month. And she said shed stuck to that. So she didnt think Barclaycard had been 
fair. 
Barclaycard has sent us the notes it took at the time, of phone calls it had with Miss A 
about this debt, and the letters it sent her. From those notes, I can see Miss A did talk 
to Barclaycard in July. She said she understood she had a plan set up for £40, and 
shed already set up a standing order for £40. But she had that discussion with 
Barclaycard before she ran through her income and expenditure with it, and agreed a 
plan for £63.02 per month. Barclaycard wrote to Miss A, to confirm these details. So I 
think that from 25 July, Miss A had agreed to pay £63.02 per month.
Miss A said she rang back to change this monthly payment to £40. But I cant see that 
Miss A contacted Barclaycard again to amend her plan, or that Barclaycard agreed to 
any such amendment, either in late July or early August. Miss A spoke to Barclaycard 
in late September, and said that she had a standing order set up for £40 per month. 
She said then that she wasnt aware this wasnt enough to cover her plan. 
Looking at the notes and correspondence that Barclaycard have sent us, I think that 
Barclaycard had done enough to make Miss A aware in late July that she needed to 
make payments of £63.02 per month. If, as Miss A says, the income and expenditure 
was wrong, and she ought to have been paying less, then I think that Miss A should 
have contacted Barclaycard to change the agreement. And unfortunately I havent 
been able to see any evidence that she did that. So I dont think that its unfair for 
Barclaycard to say Miss A didnt stick to the payment arrangement she had made.
Barclaycard registered a default on Miss As credit file in September 2019. I can see 
that Barclaycard had explained to Miss A in letters sent before this, that as she wasnt 
making her contractual payments, it would register a default on her credit file. I dont 
think it was unfair for Barclaycard to do this. Im sorry to hear about the impact this is 
having on Miss A. But I dont think Barclaycard has to amend or remove this now.
Barclaycard did speak to Miss A in October, and its notes say that a revised payment 
arrangement was set up then. Miss A said it wasn't. But I don't think this is directly 
relevant to Miss A's complaint about a mistake in setting up her payment plan, 
because, for the reasons set out above, I think Miss A had already missed her 
payments on the plan by then. And a default had already been recorded on her credit 
file.
Ive considered this complaint carefully, and I dont think that Barclaycard has been 
unreasonable or unfair. I know that it failed to call Miss A back on one occasion. Its 
apologised for that and paid £50. I think thats enough to make up for that mistake. I 
dont think that Barclaycard has to do any more now. And, although I know Miss A will 
be disappointed, that means I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Barclaycard said it had nothing to add. Miss A replied to disagree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Miss A wrote to us to say she could show shed requested the change which caused the 
whole dispute. She said her phone bill showed that shed called Barclays on 10 August, and 
her text messages showed an amendment to her standing order on the same day. So thats when shed changed her plan from £63 per month to £40. She sent us evidence, which 
showed a call of about thirty minutes to Barclays, and an amendment to her standing order, 
changing it to £40, at the same time. Miss A wanted us to listen to this call. She said that 
would show that she wasnt told about the impact of amending her standing order, and what 
this would do to her account. 
Miss A said she was being made to feel she had tried to avoid paying, and her integrity was 
being questioned. She thought shed done everything she could to resolve the error with 
Barclaycard. She thought things were sorted with her last call in October 2019, but then the 
Barclaycard team couldnt contact her due to work commitments, and they defaulted her 
account. She didnt think that was fair, shed been in contact after the default letter was sent 
to say that all her agreed payments had been kept to. 
Miss A said she wasnt confused between her Barclaycard standing order and her Barclays 
loan standing order, they were for different amounts. Miss A said shed also spoken to 
Barclaycard on 16 July, and expressed her concerns then. Miss A just wanted the default 
removed, and the correct payment plan put in place. 
Miss A particularly asked me to listen to calls she made on 16 July and 10 August. So I 
asked Barclaycard to send us those calls. It sent a number of calls it had with Miss A. But 
Barclaycard has said that neither it nor Barclays have a recording of Miss A calling on 10 
August. And it said that there were no notes on her file with either Barclaycard or Barclays 
showing that Miss A spoke to the bank on that date. 
Because theres no call recording, that means I wont be able to be certain, beyond any 
doubt, what was discussed on the call that shows on Miss As phone bill on that date, or 
even if the call was answered by Barclays. Ive got to decide whats most likely to have 
happened overall, without being able to hear this call. 
Ive listened to calls Miss A had on 16 July with Barclays. I can hear on that call that she 
expressed concerns about difficulties contacting Barclaycard, but I dont think thats directly 
relevant to this complaint. 
Ive listened to the call Miss A had with Barclaycard on 25 July. I can hear, as she said, that 
she was concerned about the income and expenditure information that was being used on 
this call. But her concern was that Barclaycard had overestimated her expenditure. It didnt 
think she had much money left over, so it was only able to offer her a plan with payments of 
a little over £32 per month. That plan would have meant that Miss As account would default, 
and she wanted to avoid that. To avoid that, she would need to pay more each month. So 
she went through her income and expenditure again, and agreed to pay just over £62 per 
month instead. 
Miss A was sent a letter from Barclays asking her to make two monthly payments of £63.02 
to set the plan, then her plan would begin. That letter was dated 25 July, the same day 
shed called, and asked her to pay £63.02 on 21 August and 21 September. 
I note that on 8 August, Barclaycard wrote to Miss A to say that it accepted shed agreed a 
plan prior to her more recent agreement on 25 July. Barclaycard said this plan was for a 
lower sum. Barclaycard appears to have agreed that Miss A had done this solely because 
shed made a payment of this lower amount to her card. But Barclaycard also said in that 
letter that Miss A now needed to make payments of £63.02 per month. 
So I think Barclaycard had repeatedly notified Miss A of the payments it was expecting, 
under her plan set up on 25 July. We know Miss A didnt make those payments.What Miss A says happened is that she called back, and set up a new plan for £40 per 
month. She has mentioned different dates for this call throughout this complaint, but now 
says it mustve been on 10 August, because she called Barclays on that date, and shes sent 
us evidence that says her standing order to Barclaycard was amended at that time. 
Barclaycard says it can see that Miss A called on 10 August. But it says it has no recording 
of this call, and theres no record of this call on Miss As notes. Ive checked those notes, 
and I cant see any notes made on this date. 
I dont think its likely that Barclaycard couldve amended Miss As plan, and her standing 
order, in the way she says, without any notes appearing on her file. And I dont think those 
notes have been deleted, because I can see notes after this which are consistent with 
Barclaycard monitoring her previous plan. I also think its relevant that there doesnt appear 
to be any correspondence to Miss A, confirming this revised plan. 
So, on balance, I think its more likely than not that Miss A didnt reset her plan with 
Barclaycard on 10 August, or otherwise after 25 July and before her account was defaulted. 
And because she already had considerable arrears, and then didnt make the payments 
shed agreed to on 25 July, starting on 21 August, she was issued with a notice of default on 
21 August. Her account was defaulted on 18 September, and Barclaycard wrote to confirm 
that default then. 
I can see from the account notes that Miss A also spoke to Barclaycard after this, on 1 
October, to ask if her default could be removed. She said the income and expenditure that 
had been taken from her earlier was wrong. Miss A told us that the default on her credit file 
was applied then, on 1 October, and that wasnt fair, Barclaycard had only done that 
because it couldnt call her back. But I dont think thats right. I can see from Barclaycards 
internal notes that it had reviewed Miss As complaint on 3 October, and felt the default was 
correctly applied, as she hadnt paid the agreed amounts of £63.02 per month. 
Ive reconsidered this complaint carefully, and also considered the further evidence that both 
Miss A and Barclaycard has supplied. And, although I know Miss A will be disappointed, I 
still dont think it should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman