DRN-1267227
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of Mrs A that St Andrew's Insurance Plc didn't include an amount 
for VAT in the cash settlement of her buildings insurance claim. 
Mr A is Mrs A's son. She's appointed him as an attorney under lasting power of attorney. For 
ease, I've referred to Mrs A throughout to include the actions/comments etc. of Mr A. 
What happened
In August 2018, Mrs A notified a subsidence claim on her St Andrew's buildings insurance 
policy. When the claim hadn't been resolved by May 2019, she complained to St Andrew's 
about its service and delays. It offered her £150 compensation. That complaint wasn't 
referred to our service.
By then, Mrs A needed to sell her house as she was moving to a nursing home. So she 
asked for a cash payment to settle the claim. St Andrew's agreed, but she was unhappy that 
the amount it offered didn't include VAT. She complained, and it paid her £50 compensation 
for a delay issuing the settlement. But it said no VAT had been incurred because she sold 
the house without carrying out the repairs - meaning there was nothing to reimburse. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs A referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didn't uphold 
the complaint. He said he'd only expect St Andrew's to pay for VAT if she incurred any VAT 
herself. And it was up to her to decide how to use the settlement money, which was to cover 
the damage. In response, Mrs A said the cash settlement was to compensate her for the 
reduced sale price of the property due to subsidence. And there was never a possibility of 
carrying out repairs, yet the estimate from the approved contractors included VAT. As no 
agreement was reached, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've decided not to 
uphold it.
As a starting point, I've looked at the policy terms. These say Mrs A is covered for "Loss of 
or damage to the buildings by... subsidence". It's not in dispute that Mrs A's claim was 
covered/accepted by St Andrew's. What I'm looking at is whether the settlement offered was 
fair and reasonable, given that it didn't include an amount for VAT.
When settling a claim, the terms go on to explain: "Depending on the extent and type of 
damage, we can rebuild, repair, or replace your things, or give you a cash payment". Mrs A 
asked for a cash payment. I'm satisfied it was reasonable for St Andrew's to use 
the approved contractors to calculate this, given their professional skills/knowledge. I haven't 
seen anything which contradicts their estimate of the damage - which was effectively what 
they would've charged to complete the repairs.The contractors' estimate did show an amount for VAT. That's because St Andrew's 
would've paid this if Mrs A had used the settlement to complete the repairs and been 
charged VAT - or if she'd used its contractors. We don't usually make insurers pay VAT 
unless it's been paid by the policyholder. That's because VAT, in itself, isn't damage caused 
by the insured event; it's an additional cost which some policyholders may incur. Part of the 
benefit of a cash settlement is that the policyholder can choose what to do with the money. If 
Mrs A got the repairs done for less than the settlement, she would've been able to keep the 
rest. Here, it's clear she wasn't and won't be charged VAT - so there's nothing to reimburse. I 
therefore see no reason to depart from our usual approach.
Mrs A has suggested the 'damage/loss' caused by the subsidence is the difference in sale 
price she's reported. But, as I've mentioned above, I'm satisfied St Andrew's settlement fairly 
reflects the loss/damage to the building caused by subsidence - which is what she's covered 
for. Whilst I appreciate why she sold the house without repairing it, the settlement reflected 
the cost of repairing the damage to the building. 
I think it's worth mentioning that, although I appreciate the difficult choice Mrs A had to make 
due to her personal circumstances, I'm not persuaded that has a bearing on the issue of 
whether St Andrew's should pay for VAT. I'm aware she's said she opted to cash settle due 
to claim delays. But, as I've pointed out to her separately, I can't consider her concerns 
about delays here as they don't fall within the parameters of this complaint. 
Overall, I'm satisfied St Andrew's offered a fair and reasonable claim settlement. So I won't 
be directing it to pay Mrs A for VAT costs which she didn't incur.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman