DRN-3513017
The complaint
Miss B complains that a mobile phone she bought using credit provided by Shop Direct
Finance Company Limited (which Ill refer to as Shop Direct Finance) was faulty. She says
she was promised a refund but did not receive one.
What happened
Miss B has a running account credit agreement with Shop Direct Finance. The account is 
subject to a credit limit and allows Miss B to use the account to pay for goods and services 
from retailers with which Shop Direct Finance has arrangements. Those retailers include 
Shop Direct Home Shopping Limited (which Ill call Shop Direct Home Shopping). Both 
companies are part of the same group and use the Very brand.
In December 2018 Miss B bought a mobile phone from Shop Direct Home Shopping, which 
she paid for using her Shop Direct Finance account. She took advantage of a 12 month buy 
now pay later deal, under which she would not have to pay interest on the purchase, as long 
as she paid for the phone in full by 27 December 2019.
Early in December 2019 Miss B contacted both Shop Direct Home Shopping and Shop 
Direct Finance to say that the phone was faulty. She said she had had problems with it 
almost from the outset. She said too that the manufacturer had replaced the touch screen 
because it was not working and that the manufacturer had told her the issues she had 
reported were common and that the model had been discontinued as a result.
Miss B returned the phone and, she says, was told that she would receive a refund. The 
phone was returned to her without any refund, however, and she was asked to return it for a 
second time. After some weeks, she was told she would not be receiving a refund. The 
manufacturer had inspected the phone and concluded that it was damaged and that its 
screen had been replaced with a non-standard replacement. Miss B had by that time bought 
a replacement, in the expectation of receiving a refund. She had also had interest added to 
the account, as she did not make the full payment by the deadline of 27 December 2019.
Miss B complained to Shop Direct Finance. It acknowledged that Miss B had been told in a 
phone call of 17 December 2019 that she would receive a refund. It sent a cheque for £30 in 
recognition of this but did not provide a refund of either the cost of the phone or the interest 
which had been applied to the account.
Miss B referred the matter to this service. Our investigator recommended that Shop Direct 
Finance pay Miss B a further £120. Initially, it declined because any misleading statements 
about refunds had been made by Shop Direct Home Shopping, and it was not responsible 
for them, although it later agreed to the recommendation. Miss B did not, however, and 
asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was likely to reach a different conclusion from that reached by the 
investigator, issued a provisional decision. In that decision, I said:
One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, if Miss B has a claim for 
breach of contract against Shop Direct Home Shopping, she has an equal claim against 
Shop Direct Finance. That is because of the arrangements between the two under which 
Miss B used credit provided by Shop Direct Home Finance to pay for the phone. I must 
therefore consider whether there was a breach of contract on the part of Shop Direct Home 
Shopping. That is, was the phone faulty?
I note that Miss B was not specific about the faults with the phone. The manufacturer 
reported that the phone was damaged and in generally poor condition, as were its 
accessories. The screen appeared to have been replaced by a third party. I have also 
researched the reasons why this particular model ceased to be available and do not believe 
that it was because of any inherent defects. It seems more likely that the reason was that 
sales were declining as other models were introduced.
I am not persuaded therefore that the phone was faulty or that there was a breach of the 
sales contract here. The inspection notes would suggest that Miss B had been able to use it 
extensively over the year it was in her possession. It follows that Shop Direct Finance was 
under no obligation to provide a refund or any other remedy linked to the phone itself.
Miss B says however that she was promised a refund. Shop Direct Finance accepts that she 
was promised that in a call of 17 December 2019. It does not follow however that she is 
entitled to one. In fact, it appears that this error was corrected soon afterwards.
I have considered carefully Miss Bs web chats from the relevant time. On 22 December 
2019 she was told that faulty returns take 21 days to be credited and that there was an 
inspection process. She was told too that she would need to make the payment due on 27 
December and that, if a refund were then made, it would reduce her overall account balance.
On 31 December Miss B said that she had received the phone back with a note to say that it 
could not be returned as it had a third party replacement screen. She said that the phone 
had barely been touched and was in the same condition as when she bought it. Later the 
same day, in a further web chat, Miss B says she was told she would be getting a refund. I 
dont believe however that the conversation, when read as a whole, did include that promise. 
It mostly dealt with the process for returning the phone for a second inspection. Miss B knew 
that a refund would depend on the outcome of that inspection. The outcome of the 
inspection was that any faults with the phone were the result of damage caused when the 
phone was in Miss Bs possession, they were not the result of any inherent defects.
Finally, I note that Miss B claimed the phone had not been returned to her, but that she had 
received an empty box only. In the web chats, however, she said twice that she had received 
it back following inspections  on 31 December 2019 and on 20 February 2020. I dont 
believe she received an empty box. I also think it likely that the phone screen was damaged 
when the phone was in use and that Miss B arranged a third party replacement.
I note that Shop Direct Finance agreed to offer a further £120 to resolve Miss Bs complaint. 
It did so because the investigator recommended that it do so, although it said that the 
misleading statements she referred to had been made by Shop Direct Home Shopping. 
Shop Direct Finance is not generally responsible for statements made by Shop Direct Home 
Finance. They are part of the same group of companies but are separate legal entities.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act makes Shop Direct Finance liable for breaches of 
contract in respect of the sale of the phone, and section 56 of the same act can make it 
liable for statements made by Shop Direct Home Shopping before the contract was made. 
But statements made by Shop Direct Home Finance in dealing with the complaint are not 
automatically taken to be made by or on behalf of Shop Direct Finance.I will not therefore be making an award in Miss Bs favour. I will leave it to her to decide 
whether, on reflection, she wishes to accept Shop Direct Finances offer.
Shop Direct Finance accepted my provisional decision, but Miss B did not respond to it. I 
have therefore considered the case afresh, so that Miss B s complaint can be finalised.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since I have received no fresh evidence or arguments, I see no reason to reach any different 
conclusions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to take any 
further steps to resolve Miss Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 June 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman