DRN-3928766
The complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc acted incorrectly and unfairly blocked his account 
when he was trying to make a payment to a lettings agency.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr C logged into his account and tried to set up a payment for his rent. Hed 
only recently opened the account and this was the first time hed tried to make this type of 
transfer. 
The payment was blocked, and Mr C was ultimately required to speak to the banks fraud 
team. He was on hold for around 45 minutes before he could be connected. Then the 
member of staff he was speaking with had a number of questions about the payment. The 
questions included what it was for, whether Mr C had paid the recipient before, why he was 
paying from this account, where the funds came from and how Mr C had obtained the 
account details. Mr C explains that he was hesitant at first as the banks questioning was 
intrusive and the depth of information required caught him off guard. 
The member of staff told Mr C that the payment had been released. But shortly afterwards, 
she called him back to explain the payment had not passed the banks checks. She said 
Mr C needed to go into a branch to resolve the issue.
Mr C was frustrated that his rent payment was going to be made late. He said hed answered 
every single one of the banks questions. He couldnt understand why he wasnt allowed to 
make a payment from his account when hed passed security and answered everything hed 
been asked. He called up again and was connected to another advisor who said he had to 
go to branch.
The next day, Mr C called the bank again. He was connected with an advisor who quickly 
unblocked the account and made the payment without Mr C needing to go to branch. 
Frustrated by the experience and concerned about what had happened, Mr C made a 
complaint. 
HSBC looked into the matter and issued its final response. In summary, it explained that 
additional security checks aim to prevent both customers and the bank from being victims of 
payment fraud. The bank said its actions were taken purely in the interests of fraud 
prevention, but credited Mr C with £30 compensation to acknowledge that he felt he had not 
received a high level of service. 
In a further letter issued after the final response, the bank said Mr C had been referred to 
branch because he had been uncooperative with answering its questions. It explained that if 
a customer is purposely misleading or withholding information about the purpose of a 
payment, then the customer can be referred to branch to provide identification. The bank 
explained that because Mr C had cooperated with the third advisor he spoke with, there was 
then no need for him to go to branch. The bank explained that some decision making comes 
down to the interaction with the customer and a judgment call being made by bank staff. 
Mr C referred his complaint to this service. He said HSBC gave him the wrong information 
and didnt have a valid reason to block the account. He did not agree hed been 
uncooperative and misleading.
Our Investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think there was anything more HSBC 
needed to do. She explained that HSBC had important legal and regulatory obligations that 
they must meet when providing accounts to customers and so did not have to give Mr C a 
reason why the payment he wanted to make was being questioned. She didnt think it was 
unreasonable for HSBC to have said that Mr C needed to go into branch. She recognised 
that Mr C was frustrated but thought the £30 HSBC had already offered to pay was fair given 
that he was able to pay his rent without any penalties from his landlord.
Mr C didnt agree. He said HSBC had made false accusations that hed misled them and 
didnt co-operate, which was not true. He wanted to know which questions hed answered 
incorrectly and explained there was a difference between cooperating after a pause and not 
cooperating at all. He was concerned that HSBCs staff member had made an arbitrary 
decision to block his account that was not backed up by facts. He felt it was discrimination 
and that HSBC was being allowed to cover its back by using false accusations. He also 
pointed out that the second HSBC staff member he spoke to gave him information which 
was not correct.
Our Investigator responded to Mr C. She accepted that Mr C did ultimately provide answers 
to the banks questions but said his initial responses and behaviour on the call demonstrated 
resistance. She provided extracts of things Mr C had said. She said that HSBCs terms and 
conditions allow it to block access to online banking or block payments if it has any 
suspicions of financial harm occurring. She didnt think the call handers had acted incorrectly 
by asking Mr C to go into a branch even though she recognised that Mr C was ultimately 
able to make the payment without doing so. 
Mr C was relieved that it had now been acknowledged hed answered the questions 
correctly. But he thought the first call handler must have made a mistake because the 
questions he was asked were very different to what a customer usually gets asked and were 
very different to the questions he was asked on the call when the payment was actually 
made. He thought it had been unfair of HSBC to block his online access so he couldnt make 
any payments at all just because he got impatient speaking to member of the banks staff 
that he found to be rude. He said it was clear HSBCs call handlers had made mistakes. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been referred to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its very clear how strongly Mr C feels about how HSBC has treated him. Ive carefully 
considered everything hes told us. In doing so, it may help to start by saying that this service 
isnt here to punish or fine businesses such as HSBC. 
Instead, our role is to be impartial and look at whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of an individual complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.But, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider HSBC should 
fairly and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks and building societies are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm. 
Whilst HSBCs first obligation is to follow Mr Cs payment instructions, the bank should be on 
the lookout for out of character account activity which can indicate that a transaction could 
involve fraud or be the result of a scam. If a payment instruction is unusual, HSBC should 
intervene and ask more about the reasons for making the payment before processing it.
Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to any concerns  and ensuring minimal 
disruption to legitimate payments. Looking at all of the circumstances as they were at that 
point in time, I dont think it was unreasonable for HSBC to want to ask more questions 
before agreeing to process the payment. Mr C hadnt had the account for very long and it 
was his first time making a payment of this type. Whilst Mr Cs intended payment was 
genuine, it did display characteristics and risk factors that can be indicative of financial harm. 
I dont think Mr C disagrees with the spirit of why a bank may need to ask more questions 
about a particular payment before agreeing to process it. Some of his concern stems from 
the depth and manner of questioning he received. Having listened to the relevant call, I can 
see why Mr C felt the advisor was brusque. Hes asked a lot of very specific questions and 
the advisor does not explain why she was asking them or how they were relevant. But 
sometimes a bank does not have to give reasons for why it requires certain information. 
I accept that it can seem like an interrogation and make ordinary customers feel 
uncomfortable or that theyve done something wrong. But banks like HSBC are subject to a 
number of legal and regulatory requirements. This means HSBC needs to monitor their 
customers transactions and may need to review an account at any time. When it does this, it 
may also need to restrict the account  and doesnt need to give its customer the reasons 
behind this. 
Mr C is very concerned about this situation and has suggested that how HSBC approached 
the decision to continue to block the payment and his access to online banking was 
discriminatory. Hes pointed out that he answered all of the questions he was asked 
correctly. But I cant see that Mr C has been treated differently. Im satisfied that HSBCs 
actions in relation to this payment were not motivated by anything about Mr C personally.Although the checks the bank undertook didnt amount to anything on this occasion, I dont 
think it was unfair for HSBC to ask more questions about the payment before allowing it to 
be made. I dont agree HSBC needed to tell Mr C the precise reasons why it continued to 
hold the payment and restrict his online banking access. Whilst I understand how frustrating 
this was for Mr C, I am not able to recommend compensation for distress or financial losses 
when HSBC hasnt acted incorrectly. From what I have seen, I do not consider that HSBC 
treated Mr C unfairly. As such, I make no order or award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Claire Marsh
Ombudsman