DRN-3022453
The complaint
Mrs Ss complaint is about charges shes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mrs S acquired her car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held Mrs S responsible for keeping the car in 
good condition. She would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned 
in the correct condition.
The industry guidelines for what is considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are 
returned at the end of their lease, is provided by the British Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association (BVRLA).
Mrs S was charged £115.75 for a missing handbook. The BVRLA guidelines say: All 
documents must be present in the vehicle when it is returned and this includes the 
operation manual and all other documents relating to the vehicle and its equipment. 
So, I think the guidance suggested a charge could be made and I dont think MBFS 
have therefore been unreasonable when levying one.
I dont think MBFS had to waive the charge when Mrs S returned the handbook to 
them late. I think its likely that by that time the car would have been auctioned and 
MBFS would have been unlikely to recoup any loss they may have experienced as a 
result of the missing handbook. And, regardless, the terms required that handbook to 
be present when the car was collected, and it wasnt.
I understand that Mrs S is upset that she was told she could retrieve the handbook 
and return it. Shes explained that pandemic restrictions in place at the time made it 
difficult for her to do so. Unfortunately, the requirement was for the handbook to be 
present at the time of the collection so I cant say MBFS were wrong to issue a 
charge. Theres no corroboration about what was said when the car was collected so 
I dont think it would be fair to suggest theres enough evidence Mrs S was told the 
charge could be waived if the booklet was supplied.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman