DRN-3274097
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has used incorrect account numbers for his loan 
account which may have meant his Payment Protection Insurance complaint may not have 
been investigated.
What happened
Mr H says he made a Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) complaint to Barclays which was 
upheld. He says he received a letter from Barclays which gave details of other accounts 
which he initially thought were false. Mr H says Barclays gave him details of different 
account numbers to his records and says his loan account opened in April 2006 hasnt been 
investigated for possible miss-sold PPI due to this mistake. He would like the account 
investigated and for Barclays to acknowledge its mistake.
Barclays says it uses an account reference number and an account number both of which 
are different. It says Mr H provided details for the reference number and says it investigated 
all Mr Hs loans for possible miss-sold PPI. Barclays says the loan in question taken out in 
2006 didnt have PPI and says in 2008 it changed the account number which explains why 
that account has two numbers.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
explained the difference between the reference and account numbers and thought Barclays 
had told Mr H that the 2006 loan didnt have PPI. The investigator didnt think there any 
evidence of Barclays making a mistake and thought it likely Mr H had been told in 2008 
about the change to the account number.
Mr H doesnt accept that view and says he asked for details about the account numbers. He 
says Barclays hasnt investigated his April 2006 loan for PPI and says the account number 
differences provide evidence of that. He maintains the account numbers Barclays use do not 
appear on his statements and so are not his account numbers.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint for the 
reasons I will explain. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed by my decision and also 
appreciate how strongly he feels about this complaint. I make clear to Mr H that I have 
reviewed his PPI complaint to help me understand this complaint.
I can see that Mr Hs original complaint was that Barclays had created false accounts as its 
account numbers were different to the number he had. Im satisfied that Mr H was using a 
reference number and so that number was different to the account number. Im also satisfied 
that having looked at Barclays records that the correct account number was used. And I can 
see that Mr H accepts that the loan date was April 2006 which corresponds to the date 
Barclays also says it was taken out. So, I dont think Barclays created false accounts and I 
hope Mr H now appreciates the difference between the two numbers. I also think that 
Barclays did investigate all of his accounts for PPI and told him the outcome of that 
investigation.
It follows that I dont think Barclays has investigated an incorrect account as Mr H believes 
and am satisfied that the account details are the same. I have made clear that Barclays had 
clearly set out the date the loans were taken out which I think provides additional evidence 
that the correct accounts have been looked at and that no mistake has been made.
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly explained the difference between the two 
numbers and has told Mr H that it investigated all of his accounts for possible PPI. I 
appreciate Mr H would like Barclays to confirm that it has investigated the 2006 loan, but Im 
satisfied it told him it had investigated it and another account in 2019. I find this now brings 
an end to what we in trying to resolve this dispute informally can do. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman