DRN-3983629
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Santander UK Plc has refused her request for a credit card debt 
to be written off.
What happened
Mrs C started to have difficulty making her credit card repayments in 2013. In 2021 the 
outstanding debt of £3,550.11 was passed from Santander to a third party debt collection 
agency. 
Mrs C contacted the agency to request that the debt be written off due to her chronic medical 
condition, mental health and limited capability to work. The request was passed to 
Santander to consider but was declined. The account was then passed back to Santander in 
June 2022. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the investigators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C had previously made two complaints about the debt collection agency. As already 
explained to her, these cant be looked at any further as they were referred to us too late. To 
be clear, this complaint will only be looking at Santanders actions.
Mrs C doesnt dispute that she owes the debt. But she says that, due to her circumstances, 
there is no prospect of her paying it back and so Santander is being unreasonable in 
refusing to write it off.
Santander looked at information provided by Mrs C, including medical documentation and 
details of her income and expenditure. Having done so, its decision was that her case did 
not meet the criteria for having the debt written off. As our investigator has explained, the 
criteria for this is commercially sensitive and so we are unable to share it with Mrs C.
The question for me is whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in response to Mrs 
Cs request. Ive seen that it considered all of the information and reached a decision based 
on an established rationale. Based on the available evidence, Im unable to conclude that its 
decision to decline her request was unfair.
Mrs C says she has been harassed by Santander, causing her stress, which subsequently 
worsened her medical condition. She has further explained that she received annual 
statements of account in 2021 and 2022. I cannot agree that making contact with her once a 
year could be deemed as harassment.
The debt remains payable and Santander is entitled to take steps to recover it. However, as 
our investigator has explained, Santander understands Mrs Cs situation and doesnt intend 
to actively pursue the debt at the moment, although that doesnt mean that it will never try to 
do so again. 
Mrs C has told us she will reach retirement age in the near future. If there is a change to any 
of her circumstances then Mrs C could contact Santander to re-request having the debt 
written off, with updated supporting evidence.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs C has said. She is undoubtedly going through a 
very difficult time and I have a great deal of sympathy for her situation. But, overall, Im 
unable to conclude that Santander did anything wrong in declining to write off the debt.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman