DRN-3987716
The complaint
Mr G and Mr G complain about how AXA Insurance UK Plc settled a claim they made on 
their home insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mr G and Mr G hold a home insurance policy with AXA. When their stables were damaged 
by a storm, they made a claim to AXA. AXA accepted the claim. But it said Mr G and Mr Gs 
outbuildings were underinsured. So it applied an average clause in the policy and reduced 
the amount it paid on the claim.
AXA said the outbuildings were insured up to £30,000. But if felt this figure should have been 
£62,000. So, using the average clause in the policy it said it would settle Mr G and Mr Gs 
claim by paying for 48.39% of the claim.
Mr G and Mr G didnt think this was fair and brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator asked AXA to show what would have been different had Mr G and Mr G 
said the sum insured of their outbuildings was £62,000. AXA didnt provide anything. So our 
investigator thought it hadnt shown it had treated Mr G and Mr G fairly, and recommended it 
pay the claim in full. He also recommended AXA pay them £150 in compensation.
Mr G and Mr G accepted this. AXA didnt respond. So the case has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it. Ill explain why:
There is an average clause in Mr G and Mr Gs policy with AXA. It says that if the 
sum insured isnt enough, You are underinsured. This means that any claim that is 
settled will be reduced in proportion depending on how underinsured You are, 
regardless of the amount of the claim. But AXA need to rely on this term fairly.
AXA is relying on the term because it doesnt think Mr G and Mr G gave accurate 
relevant information when they took out the policy. So I find it fair to consider what 
happened when the policy was taken out  and if Mr G and Mr G didnt give AXA the 
information it needed, I need to consider what impact, if any, that had on AXA.
Theres no suggestion that Mr G and Mr Gs underinsurance was deliberate or 
reckless. They were asked to give an estimate on the cost of their outbuildings, which 
is a statement of opinion, not a statement of fact. Ive not gone too much into whether 
this was a reasonable answer or not. Because if the answer was reasonable, AXA 
wouldnt be able to take any action anyway  that wouldnt be fair. So, Ive assumed 
the answer was unreasonable. 
AXA has said Mr G and Mr Gs outbuildings were only insured to 48.39% of their true 
value  so its only paying 48.39% of their claim. But I think AXA should consider 
what it would have done had Mr G and Mr G told it the true value of those 
outbuildings. If, for example, it wouldnt have insured them at all, then it need not pay 
the claim. If, for example it would have charged twice as much for the policy, then it 
only need pay half the claim. But, if, for example it would have not charged any more 
for the policy, then it needs to pay the claim in full (assuming there are no other 
changes made to the policy terms upon knowing the true value of the outbuildings 
Ive not been made aware of any in this case).
Our investigator asked AXA for evidence of what it would have done differently had it 
known the true value of the outbuildings, but AXA hasnt provided anything.
So, on that basis, because theres no suggestion the underinsurance was a 
deliberate or reckless act, and AXA hasnt evidenced what it would have done had it 
known the true value of the outbuildings, Im not satisfied its done enough to 
evidence its fairly relied on the average clause in its policy with Mr G and Mr G.
Therefore, AXA should settle the claim in full.
Not having your claim paid in full would be distressing and inconvenient. So, AXA 
should pay £150 compensation to Mr G and Mr G.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr G and Mr Gs claim for storm damage to their outbuildings in full
Pay Mr G and Mr G £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman