DRN-1573157
The complaint
Mrs B complains about the way Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has handled a 
claim under her buildings insurance policy.
Mrs B brings her complaint through third-party representatives, but for simplicity, Ill refer to 
all submissions as being made by her personally.
Any reference I make to L&G within this decision includes that of its representatives or 
agents.  
What happened
 Mrs B had a home protection policy that included a benefit of £7,500 for the cost of tracing 
and accessing (T&A) the cause of an escape of water. 
In May 2019 Mrs B let L&G know she had discovered damp on the wall on the ground floor 
between her kitchen and bathroom. L&G sent out agents on multiple occasions, but they 
couldnt determine what the problem was. 
In September Mrs B complained to L&G that the problem still wasnt resolved. And then 
referred the matter to our service because she wanted L&G to find the cause and fix the 
problem. 
In December L&G conducted a more in-depth investigation and the floor was eventually 
excavated. The problem was identified to be a leak in the hot water supply pipe to the sink.  
L&G repaired the leak and put a plan in place for drying and reinstatement work. 
Mrs Bs initial complaint to our service concerned events leading up until December 2019. 
So Ive only considered what has happened up until this date within this decision. If Mrs B is 
unhappy about events that have followed these will need to be part of a complaint 
considered separately by our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He thought L&G had handled the claim 
poorly so he upheld the complaint and recommended L&G pay £400 compensation to Mrs B.  
L&G accepted the investigators recommended settlement. 
Mrs B didnt think £400 reflected the distress and inconvenience caused. She explained the 
impact the stress of this claim has had on her own health. And remained unhappy we are 
unable to consider what has happened since December 2019. 
So the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that an insurer has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. So Ive looked carefully at L&Gs handling of Mrs Bs claim and 
the time taken to identify the cause of the damage to her home. 
I cant see any significant delays in the initial response to the claim. Just over two weeks 
after the claim was logged in May L&G sent out agents to carry out a T&A assessment. But 
unfortunately, it was inconclusive. Another visit was carried out on 3 July and a leak in the 
toilet was identified but the agent didnt think it was cause of the damage seen. 
A further visit was carried out in August and a drain survey was recommended because it 
was thought the problem may be beneath the extension. However, the drain survey on 19 
August was also unable to determine the root cause of the problem. There was another 
inspection carried out in October, but this yielded the same results.  So, after four 
inspections over five months, the cause of the damage remained undetermined. 
Unhappy with this, Mrs B complained to L&G in September as the problem was still 
unresolved. L&G explained it was still trying to establish the cause of the damage to allow 
them to assess if it would be covered under the policy. Their own agents had been 
unsuccessful in determining what was causing the problem so L&G reminded Mrs B she was 
able to appoint her own experts if she wanted. Although L&G provided the T&A service, 
ultimately, its Mrs Bs responsibility to show how the damage was caused. I think that this 
was a reasonable suggestion by L&G as Mrs B remained unhappy with the progress thus 
far.  Had Mrs B opted to do this and she was successful in finding the root cause of the 
issue, we would usually expect L&G to cover the cost of the report.
I note that by this stage Mrs B was unhappy with the loss adjuster so she requested a new 
one be assigned to her case. I can see L&G were accommodating to this request and 
instructed a new loss adjuster to take over. 
L&G arranged for a more in-depth investigation to be carried out in early December by the 
new loss adjuster, a surveyor and the manager of the T&A contractors. It was agreed at this 
point that the floor would need to be excavated. Once the floor was excavated the exact 
cause of the dampness was identified to be isolated to the hot water supply pipe to Mrs Bs 
sink. L&Gs loss adjuster explained to Mrs B that the leak to the pipe encased within the floor 
screed was so minor that it would not register following normal leak detection methods which 
is why it was only picked up once the floor has been excavated.  I think this is reasonable, 
but the floor should have been taken up sooner than it was. 
Escape of water claims are by their nature stressful and can take several months to 
complete. However, I dont think it was reasonable for it to take six months to identify the 
cause of the problem in this case. 
It is fair that an investigation was needed to identify the cause of the damage so the insurer 
could asses their liability. And as damage was apparent in more than one room, I think it was 
reasonable for L&G to determine whether all the damage was connected and caused by the 
same leak. This wouldnt have been a simple task so I can appreciate why it may take 
several visits to have separate tests carried out. 
I also think it was reasonable for L&G to try and eliminate other causes before excavating 
the floor because of the disruption this would cause.  But this should only have taken a few 
months at most, so I agree with the investigator that six months is too long. And I can 
understand why Mrs B felt distressed that claim was not progressing in good time.
The delay has meant Mrs B has lived in a home with damp for longer than was necessary. 
Mrs B has made reference to negative impacts on their health and has mentioned that she suffers with heart conditions. The investigator said he would consider this further if some 
medical evidence could be provided to support this but Ive not seen anything pertaining to 
this.
Ive also taken into account that there was another bathroom in the property, so although 
there was a delay and the repeated investigations wouldve been disruptive - Im satisfied 
people wouldve still had access to wash and toilet facilities.
I understand Mrs Bs feels my decision should consider everything that has happened to
date. But as Ive outlined above, these concerns would need to be considered as a separate 
complaint by this service.
I conclude that it took longer than it shouldve to identify the problem. And L&Gs 
communication couldve been better to avoid Mrs Bs representative chasing updates. But 
Im not persuaded these were to the degree that would warrant me to award compensation 
higher than the £400 recommended by our investigator.
Putting things right
 Legal & General Insurance Limited should put things right by paying Mrs B £400 
compensation for the delays and poor service received.
My final decision
 For the reasons I have given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. 
I require Legal & General Insurance Limited to pay Mrs B £400 compensation for distress 
and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2021.
 
Georgina Gill
Ombudsman