DRN-2012536
 
The complaint
Mr A complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited (Red Sands), unfairly
voided his pet insurance, as a result of his dog being pregnant and consequently declined
his claim. Ive referred to Red Sands all the way through the decision for the sake of ease, 
although the claim was handled by Red Sands claim handling agent.
What happened
In December 2017, Mr A took out pet insurance cover for his dog. Upon taking out the policy
Mr A confirmed that his dog was not used for breeding. This was completed online, so
Red Sands sent the policy and the full terms and conditions to Mr A.
In early September 2018, Mr A took his dog to the vet for a check-up as he found a small
lump on its shoulder. He made a claim to cover the cost of the treatment. As part of this visit,
he told the vet that he would like to breed his dog, but only once. The vet advised against
this and said he should wait until the dog was around two and half to three years old before
considering this as an option.
A couple of weeks later, he again informed the vet that he would like his dog to have a litter.
He was told that this would not be in his dogs best interest due to the concern of the
potential presence of Brachycephalic Obstructive Airway Syndrome (BOAS) in the puppies.
Whilst processing Mr As claim, Red Sands reviewed the information the vet had sent to
them. As a result, they asked Mr A to confirm his intentions to breed from his dog in the
future. Mr A called Red Sands to discuss this. Red Sands told us that he explained he would
possibly let his dog have one littler but that this wasnt something he was planning. He then
asked if there would be any issues if he did decide to let her have a litter.
At this point Red Sands confirmed that their policies do not cover pets used for breeding.
Were told that Mr A then said he wouldnt use the dog for breeding and agreed to confirm
this in writing. During this call, were told Mr A was also asked to inform Red Sands if this
changed and it was explained that they may cancel the policy if his dog was used for
breeding, which would leave him without cover for his dog. This was consequently followed
by Mr A sending a confirmation email to Red Sands, stating he had no intention of breeding
his dog.
In November 2018, Red Sands updated their policy terms and conditions and sent this to
Mr A. They also provided a 14-day cooling off period.
The following month, Mr A had cause to take his dog to the vet, and it was confirmed that his
dog was suffering from BOAS. Mr A explained to the vet that his dog may also have been
pregnant and following an ultrasound, this was confirmed.
An operation was needed, which Mr A consented to. Upon processing this claim in mid-
January 2019, Red Sands voided the policy explaining that BOAS fell under their exclusions.
This was illustrated by referring to the excluded dogs clauses in their policy and citing dogs
used for breeding. Mr A complained about this and explained that the condition his dog had
was not pregnancy related. Looking into the matter again, Red Sands maintained that the
policy had become void as his dog had been used for breeding, and they didnt cover such
dogs.
Unhappy with this, Mr A brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators reviewed the
evidence and spoke to Mr A. He told us that he didnt benefit financially from the puppy his
dog had and would define breeding as producing dogs for commercial use or financial gain.
And explained that when he spoke to the insurer, they made it clear his dog wouldnt be
covered and that he wouldnt have renewed his policy with them if his intention was to breed
his dog.
Our investigator concluded that Red Sands had acted unfairly and explained there wasnt
enough evidence to say he used his dog for breeding in connection with a trade, profession
or to make money. Upholding the complaint, our investigator asked Red Sands to reinstate
the policy and pay the claim.
Red Sands didnt agree with this and asked that an ombudsman consider the complaint. 
This was therefore passed to me, for a final decision.
My provisional findings
In my provisional decision, I said:
Pregnancy or breeding as a defined term
Having reviewed the policy terms I cannot see that either pregnancy or breeding is given a
definition. Consequently, I need to consider what Mr A has said he believes breeding to
mean and weigh this up against what the policy wording is and the intended meaning.
Mr A defined breeding as producing, in this case, dogs for commercial or financial gain. And
makes the point that he didn't benefit financially from the puppy his dog had  he gave it
away for free. Even if I agreed with this definition, Im not persuaded it makes a difference for
the following reason.
Under clause 11.15, the policy clearly states Red Sands do not cover pets used for or in
connection with a trade, profession, breeding (whether as a business or not) or where your
pet has been bred for monetary gain or reward, unless we have agreed in writing to cover
such use. The key wording here is breeding (whether as a business or not). By phrasing it in
this way, I am persuaded that they meant breeding in the biological sense. Furthermore, if
they had meant breeding to mean for financial or commercial gain, as the rest of this clause
deals with this anyway there would be no need for it.
Seeking further evidence, the oxford dictionary defines breeding as:
1. to mate and produce off-spring and
2. to keep an animal in order to breed from it
I think it is more likely than not, that in this instance, Red Sands intended breeding to mean
to mate and produce off-spring. For this reason, I cannot say that Red Sands acted unfairly.
Other points raised
Mr A has maintained that he hadn't planned on breeding his dog and that BOAS is not a
pregnancy related condition. I have not considered these points as I have already explained
why I do not think Red Sands need to take any further action.
In summary, I understand Mr A is likely to be disappointed by my decision but in the absence
of any new evidence, for the reasons Ive explained, Im currently minded to say Red Sands 
hasnt acted unreasonably in voiding the policy and declining the claim
The response to my provisional decisionNeither party has provided any further comments
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A nor Red Sands have provided me with any further information to consider, 
my decision remains unchanged. I dont think Red Sands have acted unreasonably in 
voiding the policy and declining the claim, as I am of the view that the word breeding in their 
policy means to mate and produce off-spring.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mr As 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Chantelle Findlow
Ombudsman