DRN-2342247
The complaint
Mrs B has complained to Insurance Factory Ltd that the premium for her pet insurance policy 
has been increased unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the
cost of medical treatment rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually wont cover any
medical conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out
or renewed. So ongoing or recurring medical conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies, like the one Mrs B took out, will continue to cover any
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Insurance Factory should have made these longer-term cost implications clear to Mrs B 
when she took the policy.
Insurance Factory have accepted the information they gave Mrs B about the policy wasnt as 
clear as it should have been. They offered to pay her £500 compensation for the trouble and 
upset shes been caused as a result of this. I understand this has now been paid to Mrs B.
Its important to be clear that Insurance Factory are the administrators of Mrs Bs policy and 
not the underwriters  so they do not set the price of her policy. But they are responsible for 
the information given to Mrs B about her policy. 
The thing Insurance Factory did wrong was not give Mrs B the information she needed to 
understand she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something 
has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer 
has lost out.
Mrs B chose to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some type of cover. And, as she 
chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the greater level of cover 
it provided. If Mrs B hadnt taken a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover at all, 
and would have had to pay for all the dogs treatment herself, or a reduced level of cover, 
where she would still have found herself in a situation where the dogs conditions were no 
longer covered. So I think its likely she would still have gone ahead with the lifetime policy, 
even if shed known the premium could increase significantly in the future.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mrs B wasnt so
surprised and upset when the cost increased significantly  instead this would have been
something she was aware could happen, particularly if she claimed on the policy. And she
would have been better prepared that at some point it might not be possible to carry on with
the policy because it might become unaffordable.
Insurance Factory have paid £500 to Mrs B in recognition that the information she was given 
wasnt good enough. And in our initial assessment of the case the investigator didnt think 
this was unreasonable. But having looked at the individual circumstances of this complaint, I 
think the compensation amount should be increased to £700 to recognise the level of 
distress caused to Mrs B. 
Insurance Factory disagree and say that Mrs Bs case doesnt warrant higher compensation 
because when considered alongside some of their other customers with similar 
circumstances, they feel the offer is fair and reasonable. 
But I think the circumstances of Mrs Bs individual complaint are quite unusual. I understand 
that the policy has been taken out to cover Mrs Bs mothers dog. Mrs B has been very open 
and honest with us about her personal situation and that the dog is used to help her mother 
therapeutically.
I recognise that Mrs B is the policyholder and is not herself classed as a vulnerable 
customer. But that does not mean that the distress she has suffered because of the situation 
she finds herself wouldnt be more than someone who does not rely on a dog in the same 
way. 
In 2020 Mrs B saw the policy almost double in price the space of just a year - and I 
understand it has risen again this year. What this means in practical terms for Mrs B is that 
she now has to make the very difficult decision about whether to carry on with the policy and 
pay a premium thats much more than she ever expected to pay or cancel it and lose the 
cover. The dog is fairly young and may well need treatment for his condition in the future and 
it will be harder to get a policy that covers existing conditions. 
Mrs B clearly didnt expect to find herself this position. When she took out a lifetime policy, 
she expected it to be for just that  the whole of the dogs life. And now she is faced with the 
cover being unaffordable. Better information about the policy wouldve meant that she could 
have been more prepared for the possibility that she might not be able to afford to continue 
with the policy at some point and lose cover for the dogs existing medical conditions. 
Instead Mrs B was shocked and upset when she realised. Not being able to afford the policy 
and continue any treatment the dog may need is likely to have a big impact on her as the 
dog is relied on to support her mothers quality of life - which has a direct impact on Mrs B as 
her main carer. 
The award I make isnt to compensate Mrs B for financial loss - I can see she has benefited
from the policy. Its about the impact that the lack of clear information has had on Mrs B, 
both practically and emotionally. Its clear the difficult position she now finds herself in was 
not something she expected when she decided to take out lifetime cover. It has caused her a 
significant amount of trouble and upset. So, I think compensation of £700 is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I think compensation of £700 is a fair way to resolve this complaint. 
Insurance Factory Ltd have paid Mrs B £500 so they should now pay her the further £200 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman