DRN-2299824
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way Nationwide Building Society handled her applications to 
open new accounts.
What happened
Mrs M had a FlexDirect account in her own name. She applied for three more accounts in 
joint names  one with her husband and one with each of her two daughters. Nationwide 
approved these applications. Mrs M applied for two more joint accounts with her sisters. This 
time she received an email from Nationwide saying her applications were being checked and 
theyd be in touch within five working days.
Mrs M says she received a letter from Nationwide three weeks after her application, saying 
they wouldnt offer her an account because she didnt meet their account opening criteria. 
The letter said she could apply for her credit file to see the information Nationwide had used 
to make their decision. Mrs M phoned Nationwide  they said her applications werent 
accepted because customers arent allowed more than four accounts.
 
Mrs M complained to Nationwide that the limit on the number of accounts wasnt mentioned 
on their website  and their letter had suggested her credit score was the reason shed been 
declined. When she didnt get a response, Mrs M complained to us
.
One of our investigators looked in to Mrs Ms complaint. She thought Nationwide was 
entitled to have a rule in place limiting the number of accounts available to each customer. 
But our investigator said it wasnt reasonable that Mrs M had to wait for several weeks to 
hear her applications had been refused - and Nationwides letter telling her about this 
decision was misleading. For these reasons the investigator recommended Mrs M should 
receive £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
 
Mrs M didnt think £100 was enough  she thought our investigator hadnt properly 
considered the effect of the declined applications on her credit file. So the case has come to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator that Nationwide are entitled to make their own business policy 
rules, such as how they decide whether to accept or reject new customer applications. So 
whilst I appreciate Mrs Ms disappointment at not being able to open the last two accounts, I 
dont find Nationwide did anything wrong here.
 
I can see Mrs M feels very strongly that Nationwides website should tell customers about 
the limit on the number of accounts offered  she says the two declined applications 
adversely affected her credit score. Before making my decision Ive carefully read all the 
evidence Mrs M has provided, to make sure Ive taken everything shes told us into account.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets general principles that businesses such as 
Nationwide must follow. Businesses must consider what information customers need, and 
communicate it in a way thats fair, clear and not misleading. Ive considered Mrs Ms 
complaint with this principle in mind. 
As businesses are entitled to decide how they assess customer applications, I dont think it 
would be reasonable to expect their websites to include details of all the criteria that apply to 
different products and customers. For this reason, Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt act 
unfairly by not including the limit on the number of accounts on their website. But in any 
event, I havent seen any evidence that Mrs M has suffered any detriment due to Nationwide 
not telling her about the limit on the number of accounts she could have. Ill explain why I say 
this. 
Mrs M has provided information from a credit reference agency about her credit profile. This 
type of report is intended to help her understand the things that can affect her credit score, 
and how to improve it. Mrs Ms credit profile shows shes made a few credit applications in 
the last six months. This could be something lenders might look at when deciding whether to 
do business with Mrs M. But overall her credit profile is very good  and Mrs M hasnt had 
any credit applications declined because of the number of applications she made to 
Nationwide. So I cant say the two applications that Nationwide declined have caused Mrs M 
any detriment.
 
I agree with the investigator that it wasnt reasonable for Mrs M to have to wait several 
weeks to hear whether her applications were successful  Nationwide had promised a 
response within five days. I also agree that their letter declining the applications was 
misleading, because it suggested Mrs M had been declined due to a problem with her credit 
file. 
Putting things right
I can understand Mrs Ms concern at the suggestion there was something wrong with her 
credit file. And I can see that she has been caused some inconvenience by having to contact 
Nationwide to find out the real reason for her applications being declined. However, although 
I realise Mrs M will be disappointed with this decision, Im satisfied that £100 compensation 
is fair and reasonable for the upset and inconvenience caused in this case.
 
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint, and I direct Nationwide Building Society to pay Mrs M £100 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, if they havent done so already.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman