DRN-4369642
The complaint
Miss C is unhappy 1Plus1 Loans Limited accepted her as a guarantor on a loan. She says 
she was vulnerable and couldnt afford the repayment responsibilities of a loan as a 
guarantor.
What happened
1Plus1 accepted Miss C as a guarantor for a £4,000 loan in April 2022, the loan was for a 
term of 24 months with monthly repayments of £245.
The borrower of the loan hasnt kept up with the loan repayments and Miss C has been 
required to repay the loan as its guarantor. Miss C complained to 1Plus1 saying she couldnt 
afford the loan, was vulnerable at the time of the loan and the borrower who was her partner 
at the time took advantage of her and coerced her into taking the loan out for him. 
1Plus1 didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint so she referred it to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service where one of our investigators looked at the complaint. Our investigator thought the 
loan was unaffordable for Miss C and so she shouldnt have been accepted as a guarantor.
1Plus1 didnt agree, it said at the time of the loan it carried out detailed checks and those 
checks showed Miss C could afford the loan. There was nothing to suggest Miss C was 
being coerced to take the loan and so it didnt do anything wrong when it lent the loan.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice at the 
time the loan was offered
Before lending money to a consumer, a lender should take proportionate steps to 
understand whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a 
sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. In this case, 
Miss C is the guarantor for the loan so before accepting her as a guarantor, 1Plus1 needed 
to satisfy itself that, the loan was affordable for the borrower, that it obtained Miss C proper 
and informed consent to be a guarantor and that the loan was affordable for Miss C.
Ive thought about these and how it impacts Miss Cs complaint. 1Plus1 has said the loan 
was affordable for the borrower, it has provided details of some of the checks it carried out. 
While the affordability of the loan for the borrower is a relevant factor, I think the more 
important element in this complaint is whether this loan was affordable for Miss C should she 
be required to make the minimum payments.
Ive listened to the calls with Miss C and 1Pluis1 and Im satisfied it obtained her proper 
consent before agreeing to accept her as a guarantor for the loan. Theres also no evidence 
that she was being coerced at the time so I wouldnt have reasonably expected 1Plus1 to 
react to information it didnt have and wouldnt have been reasonably aware of.
Was the loan affordable for Miss C?
1Plus1 was required to gather enough information for it to be able to make an informed 
decision on the lending. Although the guidance and rules themselves didnt set out 
compulsory checks, they did list several things a lender could consider before agreeing to 
lend. The key thing was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to consider a 
number of different things, including things such as how much was being lent and when what 
was being borrowed was due to be repaid. A business should also consider and react 
appropriately to what it knew about the consumer at the time it made its lending decision.
1Plus1 appears to have carried out a detailed check before lending, it spoke to Miss C, 
accessed her joint bank account through open banking and searched her credit file. The 
credit file showed she had two credit commitments, her mortgage, and her insurance 
payments.
1Plus1 says it used Miss Cs average income of around £1,380, 1Plus1 has argued that 
Miss C was in a relationship with the borrower and because they also cohabited, it has 
calculated their income and expenses jointly which meant Miss C could afford the loan, 
based on her and her now ex-partners income. 1Plus1 worked out that the combined 
household monthly expenses were around £2,745, this included a £400 buffer.
I dont accept that this was the reasonable thing to do. The joint account statements 
provided only show Miss Cs income being paid directly into the account. I can see Miss Cs 
ex-partner regularly made payments into the account, but his income wasnt directly paid into 
the account. That suggests to me that he maintained control of his income and transferred 
into the account when he saw fit, while Miss Cs income was available for payments directly.
I have significant concerns about Miss C ability to afford the repayments of this loan. She is 
required to step in to make the payments in the event the borrower is unable to pay for 
whatever reason. 1Plus1 has lent on the basis that both Miss C and the borrower were in a 
relationship, lived together and shared financial dealings. However, the mortgage and the 
household bills appear to have been in Miss Cs name, also as stated above the borrowers 
income didnt go into the joint account in the same way Miss Cs income did.
It is also concerning that 1Plus1 determined that should the borrower for whatever reason be 
unable to maintain the repayments towards his loan, hell be able to maintain payments 
towards the shared household bills and responsibilities. It is obvious that based on Miss Cs 
income alone, the repayments on this loan werent affordable and 1Plus1 loans seems to 
accept this. It has responded to the investigators view to say the breakdown of the 
relationship between Miss C and the borrower is the cause of the complaint. I think it was a 
reasonably foreseeable consequence that should the relationship between Miss C and the 
borrower breakdown, it would impact her ability to cover her living costs and step in to repay 
the loan  which is what has happened here.
1Plus1 hasnt satisfied itself Miss C could step in to make repayments on the loan in an 
affordable manner independently and so it shouldnt have accepted her as a guarantor in the 
circumstances of the loan as she was unable to make repayments.
Ive thought about whether 1Plus1 acted unfairly in some other way. Miss C has now made 
1Plus1 aware that she is vulnerable and was coerced into taking this loan, it has asked for Miss Cs open banking access, but she hasnt provided this. Apart from requesting access, 
I cant see that it did anything further to respond to the issues Miss C raised. I think it should 
have sort to understand not just her current financial circumstances but also her personal 
circumstances as well. I think it could have handled this better, but Im satisfied the redress 
for the loan being unaffordable will be sufficient to address this.
Putting things right  what 1Plus1 needs to do
Release Miss C from being the guarantor of the loan.
Refund any payments Miss C has made towards the loan. 1Plus1 should add interest at 
8% per year simple on the overpayments sums from the date they were paid, if they 
were, to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit file about this loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 to take off tax from this interest. 1Plus1 must give Miss C a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct 1Plus1 Loans Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman