DRN-1772681
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them a monthly premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with BoS in 1993 during a meeting. They were sold the 
PPI policy in connection with this mortgage at the same time.
Although the mortgage was in both Mr and Mrs Hs names, it appears (from the final 
response letter and what Mr H has told us) that the PPI only covered Mr H. It would have 
provided a monthly benefit for up to 12 months per claim if Mr H was off work sick or lost his 
job.
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs H didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs H will be disappointed by this but I will now explain why Ive reached this outcome.
As Mr H has told us that the policy was in his name alone and BoS records dont show 
otherwise  in fact their final response letter says it was in Mr Hs name alone -  I have made 
my decision on the basis that only Mr H was covered under the policy.
First of all Ive checked whether Mr H was eligible for the policy. Based on his age, 
employment and residence at the time of the sale, Im satisfied he was eligible.
BoS had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that the PPI was optional and needed their 
consent before it could be applied to the account. Mr and Mrs H say they were told they had 
to take PPI in order to get the mortgage. They said they did not want or need PPI as they 
had sufficient existing means of repayment and Mr H specifically mentions that they were 
able to manage financially when he was made redundant without recourse to the policy.
Of course, I cant know for sure what took place during the sale. Ordinarily I would have 
looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide what is more likely to 
have happened. However, BoS no longer have the documents from the time of the sale. But 
I cant hold this against BoS given that the sale took place over 25 years ago. And although I 
appreciate what Mr and Ms H have told us, again I have to keep in mind the length of time 
since the sale and the effect this can have on recollection.
So in these circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude without more that its more 
likely that BoS didnt make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that PPI was optional or that they didnt 
choose to take it out. Particularly given that from my experience of sales around this time, 
PPI was presented as optional. 
BoS accept they advised Mr and Mrs H to take PPI. So they had to take adequate steps to 
ensure the PPI was suitable for them. Mr and Mrs H say the policy wasnt suitable for them 
for the reasons already mentioned. However, having considered Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances at the time of the sale, I think the PPI was suitable. I say this because:
- The PPI would have paid out in addition to Mr Hs employee sick pay benefits and for 
a much longer period of time. It would also have provided a monthly benefit if Mr H 
lost his job. I appreciate that Mr H didnt claim on the policy when he was made 
redundant and was able to manage, but the policy would have meant that he had the 
option of using it if need be. Circumstances change and PPI was protecting a long 
term commitment and valuable asset. 
- Mr H didnt appear to have been affected by the main exclusions and/or restrictions 
in the policy. So it looks like he could have made a successful claim under the policy 
if the need arose.
- Mr and Mrs H could have cancelled the policy at any time without losing out 
financially.
- I havent seen any evidence to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H.
- I note what Mr H says about the policy being in his name alone even though the 
mortgage was in their joint names. I dont know why only Mr H was covered under 
the policy, it may be that he was the higher income earner. But in any event I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs H lost out financially as a result.
As well as checking the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs H, BoS had to give Mr and Mrs H 
information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that they could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to take PPI. In particular, this would have been information 
about the costs, benefits and main exclusions in the policy.
I dont know if BoS gave Mr and Mrs H all of the information as they should have. This 
doesnt necessarily mean that the PPI was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider whether 
better information would have put Mr and Mrs H off taking PPI out. I dont think it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons that I think the PPI was suitable for them.
So I dont think BoS mis-sold Mr and Mrs H this PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman