DRN-3160195
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that in December 2000 The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis- 
sold her a packaged bank account, called a Royalties Gold account. RBS charged Mrs C a 
monthly fee for the account and provided several potential benefits in return. She thinks it 
should refund her all the fees she paid and add interest.
What happened
Mrs C has banked with RBS for quite a long time. RBS has said that her account history is 
as follows:
several years before 2000, she opened a fee-free account,
in December 2000, RBS sold Mrs C the Royalties Gold account, for which it 
charged the monthly fee, and which replaced her fee-free account,
in July 2015, RBS replaced Mrs Cs Royalties Gold account with a new packaged 
account a count called a Select Platinum account and continued to charge the 
monthly fee.
(The change to a Select Platinum account was part of a commercial decision 
which RBS made to adjust the range of accounts it offered its customers).
I believe RBSs records about this are probably reliable and I have taken this account 
history to be correct. I understand that Mrs C still has the Select Platinum account.
I previously sent Mrs C and RBS a provisional decision on this complaint. In that 
provisional decision I explained that I anticipated upholding the case. I gave both parties 
the opportunity to make any further points they wanted me to consider before I reached a 
final decision.
The time I allowed for further comments has now passed. Mrs C has acknowledged that she 
has received my provisional decision and has said that she agrees with its content. RBS has 
sent us several additional points to consider.
  What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our 
website, and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. 
Ive looked into everything that Mrs C and RBS have told us or sent us about the 
complaint, including the new points from RBS, and Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain 
why.
Most of the new points RBS has made concern new evidence it wants me to consider in 
relation to some of the findings I made in my provisional decision. So first, I will re-present 
the main findings from provisional decision, then describe RBSs new points and then give 
my evaluation of them.
Main findings from my provisional decision 
Throughout our investigation into this complaint, Mrs C has made only one main point. She 
has told us that in December 2000 she applied to RBS for a loan and it told her she had to 
buy the Royalties Gold account to get one. So, she bought it. She now believes that RBS 
misled her, and that she could have had the loan without changing to the Royalties Gold 
account. 
Firstly, I would like to confirm that Mrs Cs current belief is correct. She could have had the 
loan, although probably at a higher interest rate, without buying the Royalties Gold account. 
RBS fully accepts and agrees with this. But it denies misleading Mrs C in 2000. It has told us 
that it gave her a fair choice to have the loan irrespective of whether or not she bought the 
Royalties Gold account.
As it is almost 20 years since RBS sold Mrs C the Royalties Gold account, there is no 
definitive evidence to show me exactly what happened; but I have looked at the 
evidence that is available to work out what is most likely to have taken place.
In outline, Mrs C has told us:
during 1993 and 1994, she had taken two loans from RBS, both of which 
she arranged over the phone,
when she applied for the loan in December 2000, she rang RBS again, but this 
time it didnt agree to the loan over the phone; instead, it told her she had to go into 
one of its branches for a meeting,
she went for the meeting and RBS told her that it would only give her the loan if 
she bought the Royalties Gold account,
as she really wanted the loan, she bought the Royalties Gold account.
Mrs C has given  us quite  a bit of detail  about  the meeting.  Shes  told us that at the 
start she had absolutely  no intention  of taking  out a packaged  account,  but the 
person  she met put her under  great  duress  to change  to a 'packaged  account'  
before  (her emphasis)  agreeing  to the loan.
She has said that RBS  told her about  both the cost and the potential  benefits  of the 
account  and that although  she didnt  want  the benefits,  she bought  the account  as 
RBS  didnt  offer her any other  way to get the loan.
One of the benefits  of the Royalties  Gold  account  was travel  insurance  and Mrs C 
has also told us that several  years  later she made  a claim  on this when  she was on 
an airline  flight  which  was delayed.  She has said that she knew  she had the travel  
insurance  but would  not have  taken  the Royalties  Gold  account  to get it. Shes  also told us that she kept the Royalties  Gold  account  for many  years  as from what  RBS  
had said,  she thought  she would  need  it if she wanted  another  loan.
RBS has pointed out that as Mrs C had taken two loans while she had a fee-free 
account, she must have known it would lend her money without her having to buy the 
Royalties Gold account.
I can see RBSs point about the previous loans, but in this particular case I dont find it 
convincing for several reasons. For example, RBS was taking a different approach in 
inviting Mrs C to the meeting rather than arranging the loan over the phone, it seems to 
have brought up the Royalties Gold account before discussing the loan, and around six 
years had passed since the previous loans so it may have been reasonable for Mrs C (as a 
consumer, not a loans expert) to assume that RBS had changed its lending practices in the 
intervening years.
Overall, it seems to me that Mrs C has given a precise and highly plausible description 
of what happened. Although I cant be sure exactly what RBS said during the meeting, 
Im satisfied that it probably didnt make it clear to Mrs C that she could have taken the 
loan without buying the Royalties Gold account. To give Mrs C a fair choice, it should 
have done this. If it had done, I dont think Mrs C would have bought the Royalties Gold 
account.
RBS has pointed out that after 2000 it sent Mrs C quite a lot of further information about 
Royalties Gold account. I accept this, but such information doesnt mitigate its previous 
omission. RBS has also highlighted that the claim Mrs C made on the travel insurance 
shows she knew about and could use the benefit. I accept this, but there is no dispute that 
RBS told Mrs C about the benefits, only that it didnt give her a choice. As Mrs C was 
paying the monthly fee, she was fully entitled to make a claim. Again, the claim does not 
mitigate RBSs earlier omission.
Given Mrs Cs history of taking loans from RBS, I also find her explanation that she kept 
the Royalties Gold account (and then the Select Platinum account) in case she needed 
another loan to be highly plausible. Indeed, I gather she went on to take several further 
loans. 
RBSs new points and my evaluation of them 
RBS has made three main points in response to my provisional decision. It has described 
these as material facts which it thinks show that Mrs C is not entitled to a refund. In 
outline, the three points it has made are as follows: 
1. Mrs C could have had a fee-free account when she didnt have a loan 
 
RBS has sent us further details about the loans Mrs C took after it sold her the 
Royalties Gold account. It has pointed out that she has had no loans since 
December 2015, so it thinks that if she only had Royalties Gold account because she 
believed she needed it to get a loan, she would have gone back to a fee-free account 
in 2015. It has added that there were also quite lengthy periods between 2005 and 
2015 when she had no loan, so it also thinks she would have gone back to a fee-free 
account during these periods and bought a new Royalties Gold account when she 
wanted to borrow again.
2. Mrs C has used some of the benefits of the Royalties Gold account RBS has pointed out that Mrs C travelled on numerous occasions and made two 
claims on the travel insurance, as well as registering for some other travel-related 
services. It thinks this shows that she needed or wanted the Royalties Gold account 
for its benefits. 
3. Mrs C told it in May 2019 that she didnt want to switch back to a fee-free account
 
RBS has told us that in early May 2019, when it was investigating Mrs Cs complaint, it 
spoke to her on the phone and she said she wanted to keep the Select Platinum  
account. It has sent us some notes it took from the time of the call which support its 
position on this. It has also drawn my attention back to a letter it sent to Mrs C about 
her complaint. Amongst other things, the letter said . you do not require a fee-
paying account in order to obtain a loan from the bank and  obtaining lending 
with the bank is strictly dependent on meeting the banks pre-set criteria such as credit 
scoring and not based on the type of account held with the bank.
The letter is dated 1 May 2019 and went on to say  Your  account  remains  as a 
Select  Platinum  account.if  you would  like to see if an alternative  account  would  
better  suit your needs,  I would  like to highlight  that RBS  offers  a range  of 
accounts  both with and without  monthly  account  fees.  The range  of accounts  
available  can be found  online .. It then gave  Mrs C details  of how she could  
change  accounts.  And it told her that if she took no action,  her Select  Platinum  
account  would  remain  open  and it would  take the next monthly  fee on 28 May 
2019.  
I will give my evaluation of each these points in turn.
1. Mrs C could have had a fee-free account when she didnt have a loan 
I mentioned in my provisional decision that Mrs C had taken further loans after RBS 
sold her the Royalties Gold account. I said that I found her explanation that she kept 
the Royalties Gold account (and then the Select Platinum account) in case she 
needed another loan to be highly plausible. While I accept RBSs new point to the 
extent that Mrs C could have switched back to a fee-free account each time she paid 
off a loan, I still find her explanation plausible. Until December she had been a 
frequent borrower from RBS and Im not convinced that even in December 2015 she 
knew that she wouldnt need to borrow again. Furthermore, had Mrs C followed the 
course of action RBS is now suggesting she should have taken, then she would 
have been frequently buying and cancelling a Royalties Gold or Select Platinum 
account. I think this would have placed too much responsibility on Mrs C to rectify 
RBSs original mistake. 
2. Mrs C used some of the benefits of the Royalties Gold account
I mentioned in my provisional decision that Mrs C had acknowledged that she knew 
about the benefits and told us she had claimed on the travel insurance, but she 
wouldnt have bought the account just to get it. This is totally consistent with the 
main point of her complaint  that RBS told her she had to buy the Royalties Gold 
account to get a loan. 3. Mrs C told RBS in May 2019 that she wanted to keep the Select Platinum account
The sole reason  I gave  for provisionally  upholding  this complaint  was that I found  
that RBS failed to make it clear to Mrs C in December 2000 that she could have had 
the loan without buying the Royalties Gold account. This reason still remains. 
However, from the  phone discussion and correspondence which RBS has now  
highlighted, Im satisfied that in early May 2019  RBS gave Mrs C a choice similar to 
the one it should have offered in December 2000. Effectively it mitigated its earlier 
mistake from that point onwards. 
It seems that in May 2019 Mrs C chose to keep the Royalties Gold account. This 
was, of course, entirely a decision for her, but I think it would be wrong for me to tell 
RBS to refund any of the monthly fees it charged her after April 2019. 
So, in summary, after considering RBSs new information, I still think that in December 
2000 it failed to give Mrs C a fair choice to take a loan without buying a Royalties Gold 
account. However, I am now satisfied that it did give her such a choice in May 2019. It 
follows that RBS should put things right for Mrs C by paying her compensation for the 
period between December 2000 and April 2019.  
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs C, RBS should put her into the financial position she would 
have been in if it hadnt sold her the Royalties Gold account until the point it gave her a 
fair choice. It should therefore:
refund Mrs C the monthly fees it charged for the Royalties Gold 
account and subsequent Select Platinum account from the time it 
sold her the account upto and including any monthly fees it charged 
during April 2019,
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) 
from the date Mrs C paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs requires RBS to take off tax from this interest. RBS 
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if she asks for one. 
If RBS can show that Mrs C gained financially from any banking benefits that came 
with the Royalties Gold and Select Platinum accounts (such as lower interest rates 
on the loans), then it may deduct the relevant amount from the compensation 
worked out as above. If it chooses to do this, then it must set out its calculation 
clearly and simply for Mrs C, so she can follow what it has done. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am upholding Mrs Cs complaint that The Royal Bank 
of Scotland Plc mis-sold her a Royalties Gold account. It should now put things right for her 
by paying her the compensation I have described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2021.  
Steve TownsleyOmbudsman