DRN-1646958
 
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O say Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd ('IB') made illegitimate deductions from 
their joint investment/trading account, which in turn have led to margin call closures of their 
trades (and losses). Mr O leads the complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O's USD denominated account was opened in 2010, based upon an execution 
only service in which IB gave no advice (on investments or tax) to them and provided no 
account management or monitoring for them. The terms agreed for the account made them 
solely responsible for their own investment decisions and for the monitoring and 
management of trading (and associated margins) within it. 
Mr O says over time and to date they funded the account with over 150,000 USD, never 
made a trading profit within the account and lost the overwhelming majority of their 
deposited funds (but for around 7,000 USD). Both parties have referred to numerous margin 
call closures/liquidations of trades during the life of the account. IB's records show that, 
during this period, it sent Mr and Mrs O 260 margin violation warnings and, following from 
those, 69 margin call liquidations had to be applied (with notification of each liquidation sent 
to them every time).
Initially, IB addressed the margin call liquidations issue by referring to evidence showing that 
each was legitimately based on margin violations in the account and by concluding that the 
forced liquidations were triggered by those violations and were applied as permitted by the 
terms for the account. One of our investigators - who investigated the complaint - was 
persuaded by the same approach and agreed with IB's conclusion.
Mr O has since clarified that the liquidations issue is not to be addressed in isolation; that it 
is the consequence of  the primary issue in the complaint; that the primary issue is the 
illegitimate account deductions that have been alleged; and that it is because of those 
deductions and their impact on the account's balance that margin violations have occurred, 
leading to the forced liquidations. He presented this as a 'cause and effect' argument, with 
illegitimate deductions as the former and margin calls and forced liquidations as the latter.
In terms of the deductions, Mr O submits that either US Withholding Tax was illegitimately 
deducted by IB from the account or no such tax ever applied to the account and IB has 
misappropriated funds from the account under the guise of such deductions. 
The latter argument is based on his assertion that no profit was ever made in the account - 
only losses were made - so he disputes the notion that tax could be due on and applied to 
losses. For the former argument, he says neither he nor Mrs O are US citizens, they do not 
have US sourced income and US tax could not have been applicable to their account. He 
says he completed and submitted the requisite W-8 BEN form in this respect at all relevant 
times and if, as IB alleges, it expired then IB was legally obliged to suspend the account until 
it was reinstated - during which no action would have been applicable to the account.Mr O also says he learnt about these deductions late (around 2019) and that they have been 
made in previous years. He says IB had no right to make the deductions and/or had no right 
to do so without notice and explanation. He seeks compensation for all such deductions and 
for the margin call liquidation effects. He also wants full disclosure of all activities (especially 
deductions) in their account.
IB's response (in support of which it has submitted documentary evidence) can be 
summarised as follows:
1. All activities within the account have always been accessible to Mr and Mrs O from the 
platform and documentation in this respect, and relevant to the complaint, has been shared 
with this service.
2. It re-affirms that all the margin call liquidations were legitimate (for the reasons 
summarised above). It also notes that Mr and Mrs O were aware of each liquidation and 
never complained about any of them at the times they were applied.
3. The terms agreed for the account confirmed that IB would make applicable tax deductions 
from the account.
4. The W-8 BEN form served the purpose of classifying Mr and Mrs O as non-US persons; 
on that basis, and when they had a valid W-8 BEN form in place for the account, they were 
not subject to US capital gains tax ('CGT') or withholding on trading profits; however, despite 
the form, they remained subject to withholding tax on US source income (including dividends 
and interests earned on US Treasury and Government Agency securities); all deductions of 
this withholding tax (on income) from their account were recorded in statements which were 
available to them at any and all times; each completed W-8 BEN form was valid for three 
years and its records show that Mr and Mrs O updated theirs in March 2013, November 
2015 and June 2019; it gave them notice in November 2018 to update their form before the 
three years deadline; as the 'withholding agent' the relevant US regulations allowed IB to 
give them a 90 days grace period; they did not respond during this period and did not update 
the form until June 2019; other than giving the 90 days grace period it was under no 
obligation to suspend the account as argued by Mr O; in the absence of a valid form at the 
time, withholding tax for trade proceeds in May 2019 was applied; however after the form 
was updated in June 2019, and as permitted by the relevant US regulations, the 
deduction was refunded to the account; documentary evidence of each point above has 
been highlighted to this service.
The investigator broadly agreed with IB and concluded that the complaint should not be 
upheld. Mr O disagreed with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I conclude that the 
complaint is not upheld.
The Margin Call Liquidations
I have noted Mr O's explanation of this issue and I understand that it is a matter to be upheld 
only if I find that IB has made illegitimate deductions from the account which affected the 
account's balance and led to margin calls (and the liquidations). It follows that if I make no 
such finding this issue falls away. As addressed below, I have not found that IB made 
illegitimate deductions from Mr and Mrs O's account (in terms of the withholding tax deductions and in the absence of any other disputed deductions). I do not consider that the 
complaint about this issue, based on the cause and effect argument, has been established.
For the sake of completeness, I have considered available evidence related to the margin 
calls and liquidations. Such evidence - including the terms for the account and records of 
related warnings - supports IB's submissions about Mr and Mrs O's sole responsibility to 
monitor and manage margin in their account, breaches of that requirement which led to 
margin calls, notices given in this respect and forced liquidations legitimately applied for the 
breaches and/or where the breaches were not corrected. Overall, I consider that the forced 
liquidations, in isolation, were not unfair. 
Deductions from the account
Based on Mr O's submissions, the deductions presently in dispute are the withholding tax 
deductions. He also appears to have argued that a lack/absence of disclosure about 
activities within the account (in terms of deductions) means there are potentially other 
illegitimate deductions that are disputable. Aside from the withholding tax matter, I have not 
seen evidence of any other deductions in dispute. Evidence shows that relevant account 
activities were available and accessible to Mr and Mrs O through their account and 
IB's platform. 
I address the withholding tax matter as follows:
1. Instructions and information about the US withholding tax regime, as provided by the US 
Internal Revenue Service ('IRS'), supports the explanation given by IB. Said information is 
publicly available on the www.irs.gov website, should Mr and Mrs O wish to verify it. As 
explained by the investigator, and as argued by IB, there was no obligation upon IB to 
suspend the account after its W-8 BEN form became invalid at the end of 2018. In any case, 
the only loss arising from this part of the withholding tax matter - the withholding tax (on 
trade proceeds) - was reimbursed to the account, so no lasting loss exists. 
2. The terms agreed for the account permitted IB to make relevant tax deductions from the 
account and evidence - from the account - has been provided to this service showing 
statements (from 2014 to 2019) in which all such deductions are detailed. Those statements 
were available within the account. Given the execution only nature of the account, it would 
have been incumbent upon Mr and Mrs O to access and monitor such statements.
3. A distinction should be drawn between two common taxable events that arise from 
investments. Capital gains, where they exist, are usually taxable (usually upon realisation); 
and income payments, where they exist, are also usually taxable and are taxable separately. 
I understand Mr O's argument about the lack of logic in tax arising from investments that 
have made losses, not gains. Whilst this argument can be applied to the idea of CGT, it 
remains possible - separately - that tax could nevertheless arise from any income generated 
from an investment. This separation of treatment is reflected in the US withholding tax 
regime. As explained by IB and as confirmed in the IRS instructions and information 
mentioned above, income (including dividends) from US sources remained payable under 
the regime.
4. The account statements show that, other than the refunded tax (on trade proceeds) in 
2019, the withholding tax deductions (between 2014 and 2019) made from Mr and Mrs O's 
account were related to US investment income (mainly dividend income). Withholding tax on 
such income appears to have been applied by the US tax authority and IB duly deducted 
them. Overall and on balance, I do not consider that the deductions were/are baseless as Mr 
O suggests or that they were illegitimately made. It is beyond this service's remit to 
determine whether (or not) the taxes applied by the US tax authority were, in themselves, legitimate. Mr and Mrs O can consider the relevant statements and if they believe any US 
withholding tax (on US source income) has been wrongly applied it will be a matter for them 
to address separately. For the purpose of the complaint about IB, IB appears to have 
deducted from their account the US withholding tax (on US source income) that the US tax 
authority initiated - IB did not initiate those taxes.
Disclosure of Account Activities
As stated above, records and statements of all relevant activities in Mr and Mrs O's account 
appear to have been available within it - available to be accessed by them. IB has also 
shared account statements with this service, so I am satisfied that they exist.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr O's and Mrs O's complaint. Under the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman