DRN-3355973
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly declined their requests to extend 
the term of their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F took out their mortgage with Barclays in January 2008. They borrowed 
£500,000 on an interest only basis over a term of 10 years. 
As the mortgage approached the end of its term, Mr and Mrs F contacted Barclays and 
asked to extend it. They said they didnt have the means to repay the capital balance and 
wanted the bank to extend the mortgage on the same basis for a further 10 years.
After reviewing Mr and Mrs Fs income and expenditure details, the bank said it would be 
willing to extend the term but only on a part and part basis (with payments that reduced the 
capital balance as well as covering the interest, rather than only the latter). It proposed 
switching £187,000 to a capital repayment basis and extending the term by 13 years. 
Mr and Mrs F declined Barclays proposal as they thought that the monthly payments due 
under the banks offer would be unaffordable for them. They wanted the mortgage to remain 
on an interest only basis and. When they complained, Barclays stood by its decision. So Mr 
and Mrs F referred the matter to us. 
One of our investigators looked into things and recommended that the complaint be upheld. 
He noted that Mr and Mrs F were expecting to be able to make a lump sum repayment to the 
mortgage of up to £150,000 in the near future. And he thought Mr and Mrs F could afford 
monthly payments on the remaining balance, on a part and part basis at the same proportion 
and over the same term as Barclays had previously proposed. As he considered such an 
extension to be in Mr and Mrs Fs best interests, he didnt think it was fair for Barclays to 
decline it on affordability grounds.
Barclays didnt accept our investigators view. It said Mr and Mrs F had a number of 
reasonable alternatives available to them now to repay the mortgage  such as using their 
pension assets, selling to realise the equity in the property or refinancing elsewhere. So it 
was unwilling to extend the mortgage any further, when there would be no more options as 
to the repayment of the capital balance than already existed.
With no resolution to the complaint, the matter was passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, explaining why I didnt intend to uphold the 
complaint and inviting any further submissions that either party wished to make before I 
reached a final decision. I said:
Under the terms of Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage agreement with Barclays, the 
outstanding balance became payable when the term came to an end in January 
2018. So it was up to them to ensure they could repay the amount they owed on 
time.
There is some dispute as to the basis on which the interest only mortgage was 
agreed in the first place. The application form that Mr and Mrs F signed when taking 
out the mortgage said that they intended to repay the mortgage through the proceeds 
of sale of a second property. I understand they sold that property in 2008. But they 
say that they always intended to sell the mortgaged property itself in order to repay 
the capital balance. 
Either way, I think it was reasonable for Barclays to expect Mr and Mrs F to make 
arrangements to redeem the mortgage when it fell due in January 2018. 
As Mr and Mrs F didnt want to sell their property, they asked Barclays if the term of 
the mortgage could be extended. Id expect Barclays to have considered their 
request fairly in light of their individual circumstances. But it wasnt obliged to agree 
any request that was made.
In this respect, I can see that Barclays did consider Mr and Mrs Fs request and took 
account of their circumstances when doing so. But ultimately, it declined their request 
primarily on the grounds of affordability. 
Changes to the mortgage regulations in 2014 required lenders to conduct stricter 
assessments of repayment strategies for interest only mortgages, with the aim of 
protecting consumers and encouraging more responsible lending on interest only 
terms. In that context, I can see why Barclays was unwilling to agree to extend Mr 
and Mrs Fs interest only mortgage on the basis that their only means of repaying it 
would be the sale of their property  which is no longer typically accepted as a 
sensible repayment strategy. And a term extension of the length proposed on a 
repayment basis, rather than interest only, evidently wouldnt have been affordable 
for Mr and Mrs F either.
However, that isnt the end of the matter. Recognising that the requirement for stricter 
assessments could unfairly impact borrowers with existing interest only mortgages, 
the regulations also allow lenders some flexibility to set aside their standard 
requirements in certain circumstances. In short, Barclays would be allowed to make 
the sort of change that Mr and Mrs F are looking for if it was in their best interests.
So Ive considered whether Barclays ought fairly to have approved the request on the 
basis that it was in Mr and Mrs Fs best interests to extend their interest only 
mortgage in the manner proposed. But I dont think it was. 
Fundamentally, the proposed extension involved a significant cost. Mr and Mrs F 
would be required to continue making interest payments on the capital balance. As 
things stood at the end of the term, these payments were in the region of £600. A 
ten-year extension wouldve meant payments totalling £72,000. Im not aware that 
remaining in the property would lead to any financial benefit or one that would at 
least offset this substantial cost. 
The longer term would also have exposed Mr and Mrs F to a number of other risks  
from a fall in the value of their property to a rise in interest rates  that couldve had a 
further adverse effect on them and their plans. Similarly, while Mr and Mrs F said 
they intended to continue working, circumstances can change  especially over a 
period as long as ten years.While I can naturally appreciate Mr and Mrs Fs desire to stay in their home, Ive not 
seen that they have a particular need to do so or that they would be any better off as 
a result. Their plan to repay the mortgage is to sell and downsize, and  from what 
Ive seen  I dont think it is in their best interests to defer doing so. 
Taking all of the above into account, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly when 
declining their request to extend their interest only mortgage  so Im not intending to 
require it to take any action in response to this complaint.
Barclays confirmed receipt of my provisional decision but said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr and Mrs F responded to say, in summary, that:
Barclays had given them four years of false hope in suggesting that an interest only 
extension or replacement could and would be provided but then going back on these 
assurances. 
Theyd had to chase the bank up on a number of occasions during this time  and 
hadnt even heard back on one application  all while receiving threatening letters 
about the possible loss of their home. 
The banks refusal of their proposals was unfair, as the extension wouldve been in 
their best interests given their circumstances  which included their son still living at 
home while studying and their elderly parents being ill and needing their support. 
They also didnt think Barclays had given them fair opportunity to demonstrate their 
income and the affordability of the proposal.
They have since remortgaged elsewhere but thought Barclays should compensate 
them for the stress theyd suffered, as well as the additional costs and higher interest 
rate theyd incurred in moving their mortgage elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, with particular consideration to Mr and Mrs Fs response to my provisional 
findings, Ive not reached a different conclusion to that of my provisional decision. Ill explain 
why Mr and Mrs Fs further points havent changed my mind.
Mr and Mrs Fs points cover two main issues  one being the decision of the bank to decline 
their requests and the other being the service it provided more generally. 
Dealing with the first of those, Mr and Mrs F have highlighted the flexibility within the 
mortgage regulations  as I referred to in my provisional decision  that allowed Barclays the 
leeway to set aside its usual affordability requirements if it deemed the proposed change to 
be in Mr and Mrs Fs best interests. So this comes back to the question of whether Barclays 
ought to have approved the request on these grounds. But I dont think it shouldve done, as 
I still dont think the proposal was in Mr and Mrs Fs best interests. While Ive taken into 
account what theyve said about their personal circumstances at the time, I still dont think 
the benefit of remaining in their home outweighed the significant costs of doing so as I set 
out in my provisional findings.
Mr and Mrs F have also said that they feel their requests werent fairly considered because 
they werent given sufficient opportunity to present an updated picture of their financial circumstances following recent changes to their employment. From what Ive seen, I think 
Barclays had sufficient information on which to base its decision and given the ongoing 
dialogue between them, I think Mr and Mrs F wouldve been able to provide the bank with 
whatever information they deemed relevant. 
In any event, this speaks more to the affordability of the monthly payments needed to 
service the mortgage  which wasnt a sticking point in the consideration of the interest only 
extension. Theres no question as to the affordability of the monthly payments as things 
stood  in fact, the bank was willing to agree an arrangement under which the monthly 
payments wouldve increased that Mr and Mrs F rejected as unaffordable for them. So I dont 
think this affected the banks consideration of things, which ultimately hinged on the best 
interests arguments that were much broader than Mr and Mrs Fs income alone.
Looking at the points Mr and Mrs F have raised about the service they received from 
Barclays, I can see that the dialogue was ongoing for quite some time but I dont agree that 
the bank gave them four years of false hope as suggested. Mr and Mrs F contacted Barclays 
in 2017, ahead of the mortgages end date, with a view to extending it. From what Ive seen, 
Barclays responded to this initial request within a reasonable timeframe  and by October 
2017, prior to the mortgage end  to advise that it wasnt willing to extend on the existing 
terms and was only prepared to offer the part and part arrangement. Mr and Mrs F then 
wanted the bank to review things afresh in light of their changed circumstances, which it did 
but confirmed within a fortnight that its existing offer was non-negotiable. So I think Barclays 
was clear with Mr and Mrs F early on that it wasnt willing to extend the mortgage in the way 
they wished.
Thereafter, I think Barclays reviewed and responded to Mr and Mrs Fs further requests and 
proposals as Id expect it to have done. I dont think its further consideration of the situation 
amounted to false hope but rather that  as time moved on and as further information was 
received  it reconsidered the position, at Mr and Mrs Fs request, to see if there was 
anything else it could offer. That did, occasionally, involve a little chasing up on Mr and 
Mrs Fs part but not to such an extent that I think any compensation is warranted. Ive also 
not seen that Barclays guaranteed that the extension would be agreed and I think it wouldve 
been apparent that it was subject to the banks approval, given that Mr and Mrs F were 
having to go through something of an assessment.
So while I dont doubt that the matter was very stressful for Mr and Mrs F and Im sorry to 
read of the impact it had on them, I dont think this arose as a result of any errors on 
Barclays part. I therefore have no basis on which to require the bank to compensate them 
for this or take any other action in response to the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman