DRN-2959104
The complaint
Mr W is a sole trader. He complains that a van he obtained through a hire purchase 
agreement with FCE Bank Plc, trading as Ford Credit, was not of satisfactory quality. He 
wants compensation for loss of earnings.
What happened
Our investigator set out the background to this complaint in detail, and I wont repeat it again 
here as both parties are familiar with what happened. Very briefly, Mr W obtained a new van 
through a hire purchase agreement with Ford Credit. He experienced several faults with the 
van in the few months after it was supplied, including a break-down. Mr W asked to reject 
the van, but it was successfully repaired under warranty. 
Ford Credit offered to refund one months finance payment (£269.05) for the distress and 
inconvenience caused. 
Mr W no longer wants to reject the van as he says its been successfully repaired. He says 
he was given a courtesy vehicle whilst his van was being repaired, but he couldnt use this 
for work. He says he lost income of £1,270 which he wants Ford Credit to reimburse.
Our investigator didnt conclude that Ford Credit should reimburse Mr W for lost income. She 
thought Mr W could have done more to mitigate his losses. But she thought Ford Credit 
should pay Mr W £450 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Ford Credit agreed with our investigators conclusions.
Mr W didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
If the van had been in satisfactory condition when it was supplied, then he wouldnt have 
lost income.
He explained why it wasnt practical or economical for him to hire another vehicle to use 
for work.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. The hire 
purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. Ford Credit is the supplier of goods under this agreement 
and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
It seems clear from Ford Credits response to Mr Ws complaint, and from its response to our 
investigators conclusions, that it agrees the van was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
Mr W has now accepted repair as a resolution and has told us the repairs were carried out at 
no cost to him and that the various faults have been successfully fixed.
The matter which remains in dispute is what Ford Credit needs to do to fairly compensate 
Mr W for supplying him with a van which was not of satisfactory quality.
Mr W was supplied with a courtesy vehicle whilst his van was being repaired. But it wasnt 
insured for business use and he couldnt transfer his own insurance cover. Mr W has 
detailed what he thinks he has lost in earnings. Our investigator explained that she didnt 
think Mr W had done enough to mitigate his losses, for example by hiring another vehicle. 
Mr W told us why this wasnt a practical option. Ive considered this very carefully. Having 
done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as our investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr W was able to complete a days work on 25 September 2020 when he returned the 
van to the supplying garage. I accept this caused inconvenience, that he incurred fuel 
costs, and that he had to extend his working hours, but I dont find there was any loss of 
earnings.
On 12 October 2020 Mr W had to cut short his working day to take the van to a garage. 
But Ive not seen evidence to show that Mr W had contracts to fulfil that day, so I cant 
conclude that he lost earnings.
I can see that when the van broke down on 16 October 2020 this was particularly 
inconvenient for Mr W. He had to arrange for goods to be unloaded and delivered by 
another courier, the van was recovered, and it took around 8 hours from the time he 
broke down to the time he reached home. He says he had to pay the courier £75. I think 
this should be reimbursed. And he should be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
The van was then in the garage for 10 days for repair. Mr W wants to claim £640 for four 
days lost earnings during this period, based on his average daily net income. He says it 
wasnt practical or economical to hire a vehicle because he didnt know how long it would 
take for the van to be repaired (the garage had to order a part), and that it would have 
taken him time to source a suitable vehicle, if one was available at short notice. And he 
didnt know how much it would cost to transfer his insurance cover. Whilst I do have 
some sympathy for Mr W, I dont find he reasonably did enough to mitigate his loss of 
earnings. I accept there were some uncertainties, but I cant see that Mr W made any 
enquiries about vehicle hire. Overall, I cant conclude that he wouldnt have been able to 
make suitable arrangements.
On 12 November 2020 Mr W had to again take the van to a garage for repairs and the 
garage kept it overnight. The garage filled the van with diesel, so no fuel costs were 
incurred. Mr W says he lost two days income. But I cant see that he made any enquires 
about vehicle hire and, whilst there may have been some practical difficulties in making 
arrangements, I cant conclude that Mr W did enough to mitigate his loss of earnings.
Whilst I appreciate Mr W made a reasonable estimate of his loss of income, I cant 
conclude with any certainty what he would have actually earned on the days he didnt 
have the van, if anything. Hes told us his income wasnt guaranteed, I can see that there are days when he didnt work at all, and Ive not seen evidence of any contracts that he 
couldnt fulfil because he didnt have the van. 
Mr W was supplied with a new van which was not of satisfactory quality and he needs to be 
compensated for the resulting distress and inconvenience. He also needs to be reimbursed 
for the cost of fuel for the return trip to the supplying garage on 25 September 2020 (£15), 
and the cost of having to pay another courier to fulfil his contract on 16 October 2020 (£75). 
I consider £450 in total to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.
Mr W has indicated that he will take this matter further if he is not awarded the sum hes 
claimed in full. He is of course free to reject my decision and pursue his complaint through 
the courts should he choose to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that FCE Bank Plc, trading as Ford Credit, should pay Mr W £450.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman