DRN-2434675
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy U K Insurance Limited, trading as Direct Line, (UKI) declined a claim he 
made for damage to his carpets and, that it cancelled his policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Mr G made a claim to a previous insurer for damage to his carpets. At the time Mr G 
claimed oil from his vehicle had tracked onto the carpet and stained it. The claim was 
not met by that insurer as it found the damage had been caused by use over time, 
drink spills and urine staining. The carpet was deemed as being beyond repair. 
Mr G made a claim to UKI for staining caused by coloured pens being used on the 
carpets by children and oil stains from their shoes. When the carpet specialist visited 
the property Mr G also reported yellow stains on the carpet - and that he didnt know 
what caused them.
UKI declined the claim as it said Mr G knew the condition of the carpet was poor 
before he took out the policy, the damage he was claiming for, in part, was the same 
damage as before and he hadnt made UKI aware of the previous claim when he 
took out the current policy. 
The policy has a condition in it which says UKI may cancel a policy and refuse to 
deal with a claim if an individual is found to be making a fraudulent, false or 
exaggerated claim.
Ive taken into account Mr G said he had the carpet cleaned in between the claims 
and that he didnt want new carpets, just suggestions on how the stains could be 
improved.
However, having considered everything, Im persuaded that while there was some 
new damage to the carpet, Mr G was aware the carpet was stained and marked 
before he insured with UKI and, that hed previously made a similar claim for those 
stains which hadnt been met. 
I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim and cancelling the 
policy. And, it has done so in line with the policy terms and conditions.
 
For the reasons above, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against U K Insurance Limited trading 
as Direct Line.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman