DRN-3945954
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has dealt with 
a claim he made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75). 
What happened
In February 2014, Mr M entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system from a 
supplier a supplier. The system was paid for using a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Shawbrook, which was repayable over 180 monthly repayments. 
In August 2022, a claims management company (the CMC) wrote to Shawbrook on Mr Ms 
behalf to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of s.75 is to provide protection for 
consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The creditor (Shawbrook) is jointly 
and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. 
Mr Ms claim explained he had been told the system would be self-funding and would pay for 
itself. And that he now didnt think it would, which was a misrepresentation by the supplier. 
Shawbrook responded to the claim to say it had been made outside of the time limits set out 
in the Limitation Act 1980. 
Unhappy with Shawbrooks response, Mr M raised a complaint and referred the matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service to look into. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what had happened and concluded that Shawbrook had 
not acted unfairly by rejecting Mr Ms s.75 claim. 
The CMC said that Mr M did not accept this. It said that under s.14 of the Limitation Act Mr M 
had three years from the time he became aware that he had cause to make a claim against 
the supplier. And that he did not know of this until he contacted the CMC shortly before 
making the claim. So, the CMC said the claim was made in time.
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, so Ive been asked to decide 
whether the Financial Ombudsman . 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Im considering whether Shawbrook has treated Mr M fairly in its response 
to his claim. 
relevant considerations 
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So Shawbrook must have treated Mr M fairly when it declined his s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Shawbrook gave for declining Mr Ms claim was that it was made outside of the 
relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr Ms rights to claim against Shawbrook under s.75 are 
on the same basis of those he could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the 
relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 
Section 5 which applies to causes of action founded on simple contract law  which 
includes breaches of contract. 
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr M says the benefits of the system were the inducement that made him make 
the purchase. But his s.75 claim is largely that those benefits were misrepresented and so 
he entered a contract which wasnt the value for money he expected. Mr M says that were it 
not for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then he wouldnt have entered the 
contract to purchase the system at all. 
So, Mr Ms financial loss occurred when he contracted to pay for the system in February 
2014. 
Mr M raised his claim with Shawbrook in August 2022, which is more than six years from 
when the damage occurred, and his cause of action accrued. 
s.9 Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mr Ms claim against Shawbrook is under 
s.75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of parliament). But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in 
the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  effectively making Shawbrook step into the shoes 
of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract  and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Mr Ms claim as Ive already explained he raised his 
complaint with Shawbrook over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage 
suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance Ive considered when Mr M knew, or ought to 
have known, that he had a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier. 
I think Mr M ought to have known he had cause to make a claim for misrepresentation about 
one year after installation. This is because:
During the sale Mr M was provided with a document setting out potential income and 
savings from the system. 
This showed total potential benefits in year 1 of £507.10, including £303.20 and 
£47.21 income from the feed-in tariff (FIT) and £156.69 savings on his electricity 
bill.
About one year after installation of the system Mr M wouldve had access to FIT 
statements, which wouldve allowed him to easily compare his actual FIT income with 
the estimate given to him at the time of sale. 
He would also have had access to one years worth of post-installation electricity 
bills, allowing him to check what savings hed made compared to the year before and 
what hed been told at the time of sale. 
Because I think Mr M had sufficient information to identify the misrepresentation about one 
year after installation of the solar panels, this does not provide additional time for him to 
make the claim on top of the six years mentioned above. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Shawbrook has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Mr Ms s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether 
or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Shawbrook) has expired under the 
Limitation Act but given the information available and representations made by both parties, 
Im satisfied Shawbrook has made a reasonable decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2023.
 Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman