DRN-2305266
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited was responsible for him receiving inappropriate 
advice in 1992 regarding the transfer of his deferred pension benefits from an occupational 
pension scheme to a personal pension plan.
What happened
The advice Mr B received, and the personal pension plan he was sold, were provided by 
Legal and General (L&G). It was L&G that originally answered Mr Bs complaint. But 
recently L&G has sold that part of its business to ReAssure. So it is that firm that is now 
responsible for Mr Bs complaint. But since L&G has been responsible for this matter until 
very recently, I will generally refer to that firm throughout this decision.
Mr B held deferred pension benefits with an occupational pension scheme. He received 
advice from L&G in April 1992 that suggested he should move those deferred benefits from 
the occupational scheme to a pension plan provided by L&G. Following that advice Mr B did 
indeed transfer his deferred pension benefits.
In the late 1990s the financial regulator at the time became concerned about whether some 
pension transfers from occupational pension schemes had been in the best interests of 
consumers. So all firms were required to offer to review the advice that had previously been 
provided and to check whether consumers had lost out as a result of incorrect advice to 
transfer benefits.
In 1998 L&G told Mr B that it had completed a review on the advice it had given to him. That 
review concluded that Mr B hadnt lost out because of the advice hed received to transfer 
his deferred benefits. So L&G told Mr B it wouldnt be taking his review any further. It told 
him that if he was unhappy with the outcome he could raise the matter with L&G senior 
management. Or it told him he could raise a complaint with the PIA Ombudsman scheme  a 
predecessor of this Service.
Recently Mr B has been starting to consider how he might use his pension benefits to 
provide for his retirement. He says that he would have been much better off remaining as a 
member of his occupational pension scheme since it is one of the best around. So he asked 
L&G to reconsider whether the advice it had given him in 1992 had been appropriate. L&G 
explained that the pensions review exercise was intended to be a one-off and so it wasnt 
appropriate for it to reconsider whether the advice it had given in 1992 was in Mr Bs best 
interests.
Mr B brought his complaint to this Service. His complaint has been assessed by one of our 
investigators. She said that she hadnt seen anything to suggest L&G had failed to carry out 
the review in line with the regulators guidance. And since she agreed with L&G that the 
review had been designed as a one-off exercise she didnt think L&G needed to do anything 
further.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr B and by L&G. Having done so I dont think I need to consider 
whether the advice Mr B was given by L&G in 1992 was suitable as I will explain below. 
The review that L&G completed for Mr B in 1998 was part of a large industry wide exercise 
supervised and devised by the industry regulator at the time. In many cases it wouldnt be 
possible for consumers to be reinstated into the occupational pension schemes they had 
been advised to leave. So the aim of the review was to check whether the value of the 
pension investments Mr B held with L&G would provide similar benefits to those hed have 
received from his occupation scheme at retirement.
But a significant problem that was faced in making these calculations was that for many 
people, including Mr B, there was a significant period left before their expected retirement 
date. So the calculations were based on a number of assumptions that were necessary 
because of this. The then regulator set out how the calculation needed to be done, and the 
assumptions that all firms had to use to assess any potential loss. 
Unfortunately the assumptions used havent mirrored reality  and annuity rates have also 
fallen significantly. Both of these factors have had a big impact, meaning that the benefits 
provided by personal pensions are lower than might reasonably have been anticipated when 
the review was completed in 1998. So although the review suggested the pension savings 
Mr B held were expected to at least match the benefits he would have received from the 
occupational scheme at retirement, circumstances have meant that this isnt now the case.
The aim of the pensions review was effectively to draw a line under any pension mis-selling 
and put matters right at that time. It was a one off exercise, and from everything Ive seen 
L&G carried out the review of Mr Bs situation as it was required to. I do understand why 
Mr B is unhappy that his expected pension benefits are likely to be less than he might have 
received from the occupational scheme. But it was the then regulators decision on how to 
deal with the mis-selling problem. And so it is not something this Service should now 
challenge or ignore.
Mr B has also asked about whether the advisor from L&G who met with him was incentivised 
to persuade him to transfer. Given the time that has passed I cannot answer that question, 
and in many ways it wouldnt be right for me to do so. The commercial arrangements 
between L&G and its advisors are rightly a matter for the two parties alone. But ultimately 
the pensions review didnt suggest that the advice Mr B had received was inappropriate or 
that he would have been better off leaving his pension with the occupational scheme.
I understand that what I am saying here will be hugely disappointing for Mr B. Although the 
events of the intervening years could not have been anticipated, he will now be left with a 
pension that is significantly less than hed have received if hed stayed as a member of the 
occupational scheme. 
But as Ive said earlier, the industry regulator set the terms on which the review should be conducted in order to consider whether incorrect advice had been given. That review was 
designed to give certainty to both businesses and consumers about whether compensation 
needed to be paid and not leave matters outstanding for many years to come. So it isnt 
reasonable for me to expect ReAssure to pay compensation when the review suggested 
Mr B hadnt lost out. So I dont think ReAssure needs to do anything further on this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
ReAssure Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman