DRN-3840734
The complaint
Mr C complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund the money he lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr C is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr C throughout this decision. 
Mr C says that he received a call from someone who claimed to be from Metros security 
team, but he now knows was a scammer. The caller went through a security process and 
knew Mr Cs mothers maiden name which reassured him. The scammer asked Mr C to 
provide two characters from his password and stressed that he shouldnt reveal the other 
characters. Once security was complete the scammer referred to an unusual transaction for 
£2,300 and asked Mr C if he recognised it. As he didnt, the scammer confirmed the 
payment would be stopped. But as Mr Cs account information had been breached, he 
needed to transfer funds into an account not in his name to keep his funds safe. Mr C says 
he questioned this and was advised there was a breach of security on an account in his 
name and the other account belonged to an employee of Metro.
On 9 November 2021 Mr C made three transfers to the account details he was provided 
with. These transfers were for £998, £1,598.11 and £1,688.95. Mr C was told the amounts 
had been randomly generated for security reasons. It was only after hed made the third 
payment that Mr C realised his funds had been paid into an account with a different bank. 
His call with the scammer dropped and it was only when he called the genuine Metro 
number back that he was told hed been scammed. 
Metro considered Mr Cs complaint under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code), which it has signed up to. The CRM Code 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams like this one 
in all but a limited number of circumstances.  Metro says Mr C made the payments without 
having a reasonable basis for believing the payee was the person he was expecting to pay; 
the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom 
he transacted was legitimate. 
Metro was able to recover £225.48 from the receiving bank which it returned to Mr C. Mr C 
was unhappy with Metros response and brought a complaint to this service. He has asked 
for the remaining funds lost in the scam to be reimbursed and for £500 compensation as he 
feels the service he has been provided with was poor and added to his distress. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that Metro reimburse Mr Cs 
remaining loss with interest. She said that Metro hadnt shown Mr C didnt have a 
reasonable basis for believing he was paying a genuine payee and that Metro hadnt 
provided an effective warning aimed at this type of scam. 
Mr C agreed with the investigators findings. Metro said that it hadnt provided an effective 
warning under the CRM Code, but that liability should be shared. This was because Metro 
felt Mr C missed some warning signs such as the fact that he wasnt asked to transfer funds 
to an account at Metro and not all of his money was moved at once leaving funds at risk. 
The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. 
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr C is liable for transactions hes carried out himself. 
But Metro are signatories to the CRM Code and also have a longstanding obligation to be on 
the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions which might indicate their customer 
is at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Theres no dispute here that Mr C was tricked into making the payments. As I said above, 
the CRM Code requires firms to reimburse victims of APP scams like this one unless it can 
establish that it can rely on one of the listed exceptions set out in it. Under the CRM Code, a 
bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that*: 
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning. 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate. 
There are other exceptions that are not relevant to this case. 
The CRM code says that, where firms identify APP scam risks, they should provide effective 
warnings to their customers. Metro said in its response to the investigators view that it didnt 
provide effective warnings when the payments were made so agreed to refund 50% of Mr 
Cs remaining loss. Im not persuaded that Metro ought to have recognised a scam risk in 
this case, so if I dont consider Metro has demonstrated it can reasonably rely on the 
reasonable basis for belief exception, Mr C should receive a full refund. 
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the payments? 
Metro has pointed to a number of warning signs it says Mr C disregarded. I have taken 
account of all the circumstances it highlights. But, on balance, I am not persuaded these 
outweigh the other factors that Mr C says led him to believe in the legitimacy of the caller.
Mr C says that the caller knew specific personal information, including his mothers maiden 
name. He says he thought this information could not be known by anyone besides himself 
and Metro - helping persuade him it was indeed his bank calling. I consider that reasonable 
in the circumstances here.
Mr C has also explained that the scammer asked him to disclose only two characters of his 
password and was very specific that he should not reveal the full password. The scammer 
followed a process Mr C expected which helped to reassure him he was speaking to Metro. 
The scammer told Mr C that his funds needed to be moved to an account not in his name. 
Mr C questioned this and was provided with an explanation which seemed reasonable to him 
at the time  that there was a security breach associated with Mr Cs name. Mr C was also 
advised that he was transferring funds to the account of a Metro employee. Whilst those with 
knowledge of this type of scam understand that what Mr C was told wasnt correct, its clear 
Mr C believed what he was told, and I consider his belief was reasonable. It wasnt until the 
call with the scammer dropped and Mr C called his real bank that the scam was uncovered.With the benefit of hindsight, I accept Mr C ought to have recognised that his funds werent 
being sent to another Metro account. But I must take account of all the circumstances at the 
time the payments were made. Mr C has explained that he was distracted at the time of the 
call as hed received a delivery he needed to deal with. He was also very concerned about 
the disputed transaction the scammer referred to and the safety of his funds. So I can 
understand why Mr C overlooked this point until after hed made the payments and was 
advised hed fallen victim to a cruel scam (particularly as he was already persuaded he was 
talking to his bank).
One of Metros reasons for not refunding Mr C was the fact that he made three transfers 
rather than moving the entire balance of his account at once. This meant that the remaining 
funds were at risk for the intervening periods. Mr C has said that the scammer explained he 
would provide Mr C with randomly generated amounts to enter, for security reasons. Given 
that Mr C believed the call was from Metro, he accepted this explanation. And looking at the 
timing of the transfers I see that they were all made in around four minutes. So I dont 
consider it reasonable to conclude that Mr C should have had significant concerns about the 
safety of his remaining funds between transactions.
Mr C also wasnt provided with an effective warning that ought reasonably to have led him to 
question what he was being told by the scammer.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that Metro has done enough to establish that Mr C made the 
payments without a reasonable basis for believing that he was transacting with a legitimate 
employee of the bank.
Finally, Ive considered the service Mr C received. He has said that he called Metro within 
minutes of the last transaction and so feels Metro should have been able to do more to 
recover his funds. Ive seen evidence that shows that Metro contacted the bank that received 
Mr Cs funds within an hour of Mr Cs call to report the scam, so Im satisfied that Metro 
followed the standard expected in respect of the recovery of funds. So Im not asking Metro 
to pay anything more. 
My final decision
I require Metro Bank PLC to:
- Refund Mr Cs remaining loss (after taking into account the amount recovered and 
returned to Mr C);
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr 
C should have been refunded under the CRM Code to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman