DRN-1699114
 
complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr M took out a credit card in 2004. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy which 
wouldve helped cover his repayments on the card for up to 12 months at a time if he 
couldnt work. 
Mr M says that he didnt know the PPI had been added to his account. He says he didnt 
agree to buy it. 
The adjudicator thought that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld because Barclays didnt 
give him clear information about the exclusions on the policy. Barclays disagrees, so Mr Ms 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im holding this complaint. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
Barclays has provided a copy of Mr Ms application form. He clearly selected the PPI. But 
the form doesnt provide much information about the terms and conditions of the policy.
The policy excluded Mr M from claiming if his absence from work was as a result of an 
existing medical condition. Mr M had a chronic and enduring serious medical condition which 
could easily have led to him needing to take an extended period of time off work.  I think it 
would have been the most likely reason for him being off work sick. 
Barclays had a responsibility to ensure Mr M got all the information he needed to make his 
decision about buying the PPI. Barclays didnt make this exclusion clear enough to Mr M. 
I am satisfied that if Mr M had understood that he wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful claim for his condition or anything related to it that he wouldnt have thought the 
policy offered him value for money and he wouldnt have bought it. 
Barclays has indicated that because Mr M didn't have further time off work after the sale as a 
result of his condition that this means the policy was suitable for him. But I have to consider 
the situation at the point of sale, and at that point I think Mr M would have considered his 
condition the most likely reason he'd need to take time off work. So I think Mr M lost out as a result of what Barclays did wrong. 
putting things right
Barclays should do the following:
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr M would have owed when he closed his credit 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr M owed when he closed his 
account and what he would have owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him. Barclays can also take off any sum it has paid Mr M 
in relation to commission and profit share.
B. Barclays should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr M would 
have owed when he closed his account from when he closed it until he gets the 
refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C. If  when Barclays works out what Mr M would have owed each month without PPI  
Mr M paid more than enough to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Mr M wouldve owed Barclays something on his card. The interest rate should 
be 8% a year.
D. Barclay should tell Mr M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay compensation as 
Ive described above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman