DRN-3613711
The complaint
A company Ill call K complains that Cynergy Bank Limited (Cynergy) blocked and closed its 
account, without explaining why. And failed to properly investigate missing payments paid to 
Ks account while it was blocked.
K is represented by one of its directors, Mr T.
What happened
On 18 August 2020, Cynergy blocked Ks account. When Mr T called his relationship 
manager (RM) to find out what was happening, he was told the block was caused by a 
technical issue. However, the account remained restricted and Cynergy then wrote to K on 3 
September 2020, giving it 15 days notice of its intention to close its account.
Cynergy also took similar actions in respect of 2 other limited company accounts in Mr Ts 
name, as well as his personal account. But this decision is solely concerned with Ks 
account, and I will address the other complaints separately.
During the block, a number of payments were made to the account, which Mr T couldnt 
access. When Mr T called Cynergy to discuss the payments, he was told theyd been 
rejected and returned to source. But when Mr T checked the source account, the funds 
werent there, so he complained.
Cynergy issued two final response letters to K. One on 17 September 2020 and another on 
24 November 2020. In the first letter, it apologised for the inconvenience Mr T had 
experienced, but said it had decided not to accept K as a customer, and said it wasnt 
obliged to provide any further information. 
Cynergys second final response letter was sent after Mr T had complained about the 
missing payments, following the account block. In that letter, it explained that it cant accept 
credits to a blocked account, and that all such credits are returned to the sender. It listed the 
dates, references and payment types for each payment it had rejected, and confirmed that 
any payments destined for Ks account after 18 August 2020 had been blocked and returned 
to sender.
Mr T didnt accept Cynergys response, so he brought his complaint to our service. He said 
Cynergy had lied to him about the technical issue, and wanted to know the real reason his 
account had been blocked and closed. And he said he understood Cynergy could close his 
accounts, but didnt feel it was entitled to block the accounts beforehand. He later received 
the missing funds, but felt Cynergy was responsible for the delay in their return.
Our investigator looked at Ks complaint, but she didnt uphold it. She said Cynergy had 
acted in line with its terms of business when it closed Ks account, and that it wasnt obliged 
to share more detail about its reasoning. With regard to the missing payments, our 
investigator was satisfied Cynergy wasnt responsible for the delay. So, she didnt ask 
Cynergy to pay compensation to K to put things right.
Mr T didnt accept our investigators findings. He said Cynergy had lied to him about the 
reasons for the block, and said the banks actions put K in financial jeopardy. He asked for 
an Ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should say that Im aware Ive summarised the events of this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties, and that Ive done so using my own words. The reason for this is that 
Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here, which our rules allow me to do.
This approach simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. And Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome in this case. So, if theres something Ive not 
mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, and I must stress that Ive considered everything 
both Mr T and Cynergy have said, before reaching my decision.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. And because of the nature of those obligations, 
banks often dont disclose the reasons for their decisions to their customers. However, our 
service has obtained information and evidence relating to Cynergys rationale, so while I 
cant disclose the reasons behind Cynergys actions, I can assure Mr T that I have reviewed 
all of the germane evidence.
With that in mind, in order to make an award in favour of K, I would need to be satisfied that 
Cynergy acted unfairly or took actions it wasnt entitled to take. And, having looked at the 
evidence it relied on in reaching its decision, Im satisfied Cynergy acted in line with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it blocked Ks account. And that it was entitled to do so 
under the account terms and conditions that governed the relationship between Cynergy and 
K. Because Im satisfied Cynergy was entitled to block Ks account, I wont ask it to 
compensate K for doing so, given it did nothing wrong. 
Mr T also says that his RM originally told him the account was blocked due to a technical 
issue, and that he later found out that that was not the case. 
But, as our investigator has explained, banking decisions are not always made by a single 
department and in circumstances like these, the rationale isnt always communicated to all 
members of staff. So, Mr Ts RM may not have known why the account was blocked. And in 
any event, Im satisfied Cynergy wasnt obliged to disclose the reasons for the block. So, Mr 
Ts RM couldnt have given him any more information, regardless of whether or not he knew 
the true reason.
Mr T also said he was unhappy that Cynergy blocked Ks account, pending closure. But a 
banks ability to close an account isnt mutually exclusive from its ability to block an account. 
So, while I recognise the block will have caused K difficulty, I cant say Cynergy acted 
unfairly in blocking the account, for the reasons Ive set out above.
Account closureA bank is entitled to close an account with a customer, so long as it does so in a way that 
complies with the terms and conditions of the customers account. 
Cynergy gave K 15 days notice to close its account in a letter dated 3 September 2020. It 
explained Ks account no longer fell within Cynergys criteria and confirmed the account 
would be blocked until it was closed. Cynergy referred our service to its terms of business 
which, at section 18.5 sets out the circumstances in which it can close Ks account with less 
than 2 months notice. The terms and conditions though dont oblige Cynergy to disclose the 
reasons for its decision to K, and I can see Cynergy didnt want to tell K why it closed the 
account.
With that being the case, Ive looked at the evidence Cynergy provided our service to 
determine whether or not it acted fairly when it closed Ks account. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that it did and that it was entitled to close Ks account without giving 2 months 
notice. And that it doesnt have to explain the reasons for its decision to K.
Missing funds
The missing payments Mr T refers to were all made after Cynergy blocked Ks account. And 
Cynergy has explained to our service that payments into a blocked account are rejected. Its 
also provided evidence to support that suggestion, and Im satisfied that Cynergy didnt hold 
onto the payments or cause an unreasonable delay in their return. Ive seen that the 
receiving bank didnt credit Ks account immediately with the funds that had bounced back 
from Cynergy. But, while there is evidence that shows the receiving bank did cause a delay 
in K obtaining its funds, I havent seen evidence to persuade me that Cynergy caused 
unreasonable delays.
K also made a separate complaint about the receiving bank causing delays in returning 
funds to K, and I have awarded compensation in respect of that complaint. But for the 
reasons Ive set out above, and given K has been compensated, I wont ask Cynergy to 
compensate K for a delay in K accessing its funds.
Mr T also suggested that Cynergy didnt properly investigate what had happened to the 
missing funds. However, Im not persuaded that was the case. Cynergy has provided 
evidence to show the funds were rejected promptly, and it set out a detailed report to Mr T in 
its 2nd final response letter. As Ive set out above, the evidence supports my findings that Ks 
other service provider did cause an unreasonable delay, and that Cynergy didnt. And, while 
I recognise it was frustrating for Mr T given his other service provider couldnt explain where 
the funds were, Im satisfied Cynergy took reasonable steps to locate the funds. And I cant 
reasonably hold it responsible for the failings of another organisation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman