DRN-4066664
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that AWP P&C SA (AWP) has declined their travel insurance 
claim. They also complain that AWP provided poor customer service.
Any reference to AWP includes all its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs J have a travel insurance policy alongside their bank current account. 
AWP is the underwriter on the policy.
They went on their family trip on 19 August 2022 and were due to return on 
26 August 2022. 
Their flight provider cancelled their return flight on 25 August 2022. There was no 
further flight availability for the following 11 days with that same flight provider. So, 
they booked a flight with another provider and returned to the UK on 27 August 2022. 
On the day their flight was cancelled - on 25 August - Mrs J called AWP to find out if 
they did book a different return flight whether they would be covered on their travel 
policy for the additional costs of the new flight as well as the extra nights 
accommodation. The advisor on the telephone said they would be covered. On that 
basis, Mr and Mrs J booked the flight with the different provider and they returned to 
the UK on 27 August 2022.  
The cost of the cancelled flight was refunded to Mr and Mrs J. 
Upon their return, AWP assessed the claim and declined it. It said under their policy 
terms and conditions, their claim wasnt covered as Mr and Mrs J had to have 
travelled to their point of departure and checked-in. As the flight was cancelled the 
day before, there was no cover on their policy for what happened. 
Unhappy with AWPs response, Mr and Mrs J complained. AWP responded and said 
the claim wasnt covered but it did agree the service could have been better and 
offered £50 compensation. 
Mr and Mrs J brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it 
and upheld it in part. She didnt think their policy covered Mr and Mrs Js extra flight 
cost. But she thought Mr and Mrs J could have mitigated some of the financial loss 
they suffered if AWP hadnt led them to think the claim was covered. So, our 
investigator recommended that AWP pay for the extra nights accommodation cost as 
this was fair and reasonable. She also said, in recognition of the poor service that 
AWP provided, it should pay an additional £150, making it a total of £200 
compensation. 
AWP accepted the investigators recommendation. 
Mr and Mrs J didnt accept the assessment and asked for the complaint to be 
referred to an ombudsman. So, its been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS). 
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Should the claim be declined?
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Js travel policy as this 
forms the basis of their insurance contract with AWP. Page 39 in the policy document sets 
out the cover available in the case of a Travel Delay. This says:
What is covered
Travel delay
The benefit provided below is intended to provide compensation if you are delayed at your 
point of departure and is only applicable if you have travelled there and checked-in. If you 
have not travelled to your departure point you will not be covered, even if you have checked-
in online.
1. A delay of your pre-booked public transport resulting in you departing at least 12 hours 
after your original scheduled departure time; or
2. You being involuntarily denied boarding because there are too many passengers for the 
seats available and no suitable alternative flight could be provided within 12 hours; or
3. Abandonment of your trip following 12 hours of delay at your first international departure 
point in the UK;
We will pay you:
1. £30 as a benefit for the first complete 12 hours of your delay, then £20 (up to a maximum 
of £250) as a benefit for every complete 12 hours of delay after that, if you continue to travel 
on your trip; or
2. Up to £5,000 for either:
a. The refund your share of the cost of your trip that you cannot claim back from any other 
source as a result of the abandonment of your trip; or
b. Your reasonable additional travel (including up to £200 for taxis and hire cars) and 
accommodation expenses, which are of a similar standard to that of your pre-booked travel 
and accommodation and which cannot be claimed back from any other source, if you have 
to make alternative arrangements to reach your destination.
Mr and Mrs Js flight was cancelled one day before they were due to return. They werent at the point of departure when the flight was cancelled, and they hadnt checked-in. On this 
basis, the policy is clear that there will only be cover available if this happened. 
Im satisfied therefore that the claim was declined in line with Mr and Mrs Js policy terms 
and conditions and theres no cover for the situation they found themselves in.
Customer service
Ive carefully considered the information provided and looked at what happened. Ive also 
listened to the call Mrs J had with AWP when the flight was cancelled. 
Generally, I wouldnt expect an insurer to be in a position to give a definite claims decision 
over the telephone until it has seen all the relevant documentation and looked at the 
circumstances of the claim. 
Having said that, I do agree that AWP could have provided better information, especially as 
the advisor said they had referred to a manager. I can see that Mr and Mrs J decided to take 
a flight the next day because of the information given to them. Ive thought about what 
Mr and Mrs J would have done had they received the correct information. I think its very 
likely they would have taken the later flight on 26 August, which would have avoided having 
to stay one night and paying for the cost of this. Mr and Mrs J would have mitigated some of 
the financial loss. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable that AWP pay Mr and Mrs J for the cost of the one nights 
accommodation and add 8% simple interest. 
I also think £200 compensation is fair and reasonable for the circumstances of what 
happened here. Mrs J did what was expected by calling the insurer on the day the flight was 
cancelled. Its unfortunate and poor customer service that the information the AWP adviser 
provided was incorrect. I can see that AWP has apologised for this and its also agreed that 
£200 is a fair and reasonable amount. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs J think this is unfair as they incurred costs which they found out 
later werent covered for. Ive considered everything and can understand that the situation 
has been frustrating. But as it stands, there is no cover for what happened in their situation. 
Ive considered whats fair and reasonable based on what Mr and Mrs J were told by the 
adviser and I think paying the cost of the one-night accommodation and paying £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused seems fair and reasonable overall. 
Conclusion
Taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that AWP declined the claim unfairly or 
unreasonably. There is no cover for what happened under the Travel Delay section of 
Mr and Mrs Js policy or any other section of their policy. I therefore cant reasonably ask 
AWP to settle the claim. 
I do think Mr and Mrs J wouldve mitigated some of the financial loss and I think therefore 
AWP should pay for the one nights accommodation Mr and Mrs J incurred. Its also fair and 
reasonable that AWP pay Mr and Mrs J £200 in total for the poor service it provided. 
Putting things right
AWP should now pay Mr and Mrs J the following:
Settle the claim for the cost of the one night of accommodation Mr and Mrs J incurred and include 8% simple interest from the date the claim was made to the date of 
settlement.
Pay in total £200 compensation for the poor service it provided to Mr and Mrs J.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partially uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint about AWP P&C 
SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 May 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman