DRN-2293029
The complaint
Mr B and Ms L are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Home Insurance 
hasnt accepted their escape of water claim.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr B and Ms L took out home insurance with Churchill. The policy was 
due to start on 13 September 2019, when their existing insurance elsewhere ended.
On 6 October 2019, Mr B and Ms L discovered a puddle of water in their kitchen and 
realised that there was some form of leak coming through from the bathroom upstairs. 
They contacted their insurer and a plumber came out under their home emergency cover. 
They also put in a claim for the damage to their home under the main part of their 
insurance.
There was damage in the kitchen and living room, as well as to the bathroom flooring. 
The leak was coming from the back of the toilet and was concealed.
Churchill reviewed the claim, but said that the damage Mr B and Ms L were claiming 
for occurred before they took out cover with it. It referred them to their previous 
insurer and closed the case as it set out that pre-existing damage wasnt covered by 
the policy.
Mr B and Ms L disagreed with the claim outcome. They said that while it was possible the 
leak had started before they took out cover with Churchill, there wasnt any definitive 
evidence that showed this. They explained that the review undertaken by Churchill was of 
surface damage only and said that they considered the materials affected (such as timber 
and plaster) could get damaged by water in a short space of time. Churchill didnt change 
its outcome, so they brought their complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in September 2020. I said I didnt intend 
to uphold this case, as I couldnt fairly say Churchill was responsible for repairing the 
water damage.
I set out that Mr B and Ms Ls policy covered them for insured events, such as the 
escape of water. However the policy also set out that it didnt cover any pre-existing loss 
or damage. So they were only covered for damage caused by escaping water from 13 
September 2019 under this policy  the date their insurance actually started.
I pointed out that Mr B and Ms L have themselves said throughout their correspondence 
that was it possible the leak started before they insured with Churchill. But they said 
there was no definitive evidence to support this. However, I explained we didnt need 
definitive evidence. And that my role was (and is) to reach a fair outcome on the case 
based on the evidence available. And where its not clear exactly what has happened or 
when, to reach a decision based on whats most likely to have happened.
Churchill provided details from the home emergency visit, footage of the damage to the 
house and a senior home insurance consultants review of the footage. From reviewing 
details of the leak and the level of damage, it determined that the leak first occurred more 
than 24 days prior to the claim. Mr B and Ms L had commented that there wasnt a 
sudden large outpouring of water. And that there were no indicators such as the sound of 
dripping. So the evidence Id seen pointed to the leak itself being relatively minor.
On that basis, I couldnt say Churchill was wrong to conclude the leak had occurred for a 
period of more than the insured time. The level of damage caused throughout the 
property was quite extensive, considering the size of the area the water had damaged. 
While I accepted some materials could absorb water quickly, this suggestion in itself 
wasnt enough to persuade me the leak only occurred during the insured time. So I 
considered it most likely the leak has been on- going for a long period of time. Mr B and 
Ms L also hadnt provided any comparable expert evidence to counter Churchills 
conclusion. And in cases like this, I said it was equally their role to prove they had a valid 
claim, as it was Churchills to show any exclusions applied.
The evidence we held suggested it was most likely that the damage was occurring 
gradually for a long period of time. And, while I fully accepted Mr B and Ms L werent 
aware of this, the insured event was the leak itself, not their discovery of the leak. So, on 
balance, this put the insured event outside of their cover with Churchill.
Mr B and Ms L were continuously insured for their home, but prior to 13 September 
2019, their insurance was with someone else. I said I couldnt comment on any other 
claims under this case, but in terms of their claim with Churchill, I couldnt fairly say 
that it was responsible for repairing the water damage, as things currently stood.
I accepted it was possible the leak wouldve caused some damage during the insured 
period, as it was ongoing. And as Mr L and Ms Bs policy covered water damage, this 
couldve meant Churchill had some responsibility. But Churchill set out that it would be for 
the previous insurer to approach it for a contribution  with evidence which set out what 
damage occurred during Churchills cover. And I was in agreement with it on this point, 
with the same test applying to Mr B and Ms L  if they didnt want to claim on their 
previous cover. I said the result of this discussion, if it did occur, would be a separate 
matter to this complaint. Considering it seemed more likely that most of the damage 
occurred outside Churchills insured period, in this case, I couldnt fairly say Churchill had 
to incur additional costs to prove what it was responsible for (if anything).
I concluded that I hadnt seen persuasive evidence that an insured peril, causing 
damage, occurred during the time Mr B and Ms L were insured with Churchill. And 
without this evidence, I didnt consider Churchill did need to accept this claim from Mr B 
and Ms L for escape of water, as pre-existing damage was excluded under the policy.
Neither Churchill nor Mr B and Ms L provided any further comments in response to my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided anything further, I see no reason to change my decision. So for the 
reasons outlined in my provisional decision, summarised above, I dont uphold Mr B and 
Ms Ls complaint against Churchill.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr B and Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 November 2020.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman