DRN-3970566
The complaint
The estate of Mr S (The Estate) is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC havent kept a copy of 
the late Mr Ss most recent will in safe keeping as they were entrusted to. 
This complaint is brought to this service on behalf of the Estate by the widow of the late Mr S 
in her role as executor, whom Ill refer to as Mrs S.
What happened
Mr S maintained a safe custody account with Lloyds for the safe keeping of his will. 
Following Mr Ss passing in May 2022, Mrs S went into Lloyds to request the will. Lloyds 
promised to send this to her within two weeks. But Mrs S didnt receive the will for over two 
months, and when it arrived it was an older will and not the most recent will that had been 
submitted to Lloyds by her late husband. 
Mrs S raised this point with Lloyds who said they would investigate the matter, but who then 
took a further two months to confirm to Mrs S that they held no additional items from Mr S for 
safe keeping. Mrs S wasnt happy about this and was confident that a later will had been 
deposited with Lloyds, so she raised a complaint.
Lloyds responded to Mrs S and reiterated that they had no record of every receiving 
anything for safe keeping other than the one will which theyd already supplied to Mrs S. 
However, Lloyds did accept that they didnt return the will they did hold to Mrs S in a 
reasonable amount of time, and they apologised to Mrs S for this and made a payment of 
£100 to her as compensation for any trouble and upset this may have caused. Mrs S wasnt 
satisfied with Lloyds response, so she referred the Estates complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel it could reasonably be 
said that Lloyds had received a later copy of Mr Ss will. Mrs S remained dissatisfied, so the 
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Id like to begin by confirming that this service isnt a regulatory body or a 
Court of Law and doesnt operate as such. This means that it isnt within my remit here to 
declare that Lloyds have or havent acted in a non-regulatory or unlawful way. 
Instead, this service is an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. And while we do take 
relevant law and regulation into account when arriving at our decisions, our remit is focussed 
on determining whether we feel a fair or unfair outcome has occurred  from an impartial 
perspective, after taking all the circumstances and factors of a complaint into consideration. 
Mrs S is certain that her late husband provided an updated version of his will to Lloyds for 
safe keeping. So, I can appreciate why it would be distressing for her that Lloyds havent 
been able to find this later will and return it to her so that the most recently recorded wishes 
of her late husband could be affected.
On the other hand, Lloyds say that they initially only had record of Mr S depositing one item 
with them for safe keeping  the will that they did return to Mrs S  and note that after a 
thorough search of their systems following Mrs S raising her concerns with them that they 
continued to only have record of the one item ever being left by with them by Mr S. 
In circumstances such as this, where the position of the complainant and the respondent 
parties is in contradiction with one another, I must decide  if I feel its reasonably possible to 
do so  which of the two versions of events I feel is most likely to have happened, from an 
impartial perspective and in consideration of all the information and evidence available to 
me. And in this instance, I find the position of Lloyds to be the more persuasive here. 
One reason for this is that I would have expected a receipt-of-deposit to have been provided 
by Lloyds when the later will was left with them for safe keeping. But Mrs S hasnt been able 
to provide any such receipt or any evidence that the later will was given to Lloyds. And I feel 
that this absence of proof corresponds with Lloyds own enquiries, which showed only that 
the older will had been deposited with them.
Of course, this isnt to say that a later will wasnt left with Lloyds by the late Mr S. But it is to 
say, given the information and evidence available to me, that I dont feel it can reasonably be 
postulated from an impartial perspective that it is more likely than not that Mr S did deposit a 
later will with Lloyds, such that Id feel it fair to uphold this complaint against them. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mrs S was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action here. I hope 
that she will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision I have.  
Finally, I note that Lloyds made a payment of £100 to Mrs S for the upset and frustration the 
delayed provision of the will that Lloyds did hold may have caused her. And I also note that 
this amount appears to have been paid by Lloyds to Mrs S in a personal capacity, and not to 
her in her role as executor of the Estate. As such, given that the eligible complainant here for 
the purposes of this service is the Estate, and not Mrs S in a personal capacity, Im unable to 
comment on this compensation payment further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman