DRN-3028916
complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 2007. Mrs 
and Mr D say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, mis-sold them the 
PPI. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lloyds throughout this decision.
background
One of our adjudicators previously looked into the complaint and said they didnt think we 
should uphold it. Mrs and Mr Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
However, they didnt raise any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint 
points and arguments theyd previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs and Mr Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs and 
Mr Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Im sorry to have to disappoint Mrs 
and Mr D.
For clarification purposes, this mortgage seems to have been taken out after Mrs and Mr D 
had changed lender. I note they have also made a complaint about the PPI they had with the 
previous mortgage lender, and I wrote to them a few days ago explaining why I wasnt 
upholding that complaint. 
For this mortgage, with Lloyds, once again only Mr D was protected by the PPI cover so 
some of the points of complaint made about Mrs D arent relevant  only he was covered. I 
also previously explained that I thought there was plenty of evidence showing Mrs and Mr D 
had wanted mortgage protection and they had engaged in the sale process(es) and even 
varied the cover to suit their changing and emerging circumstances over the years.
Again, Im afraid there is very clear evidence here, that Mrs and Mr D would have known 
they didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out in respect of Mr D, in 2007 
with Lloyds. They asked for it on their mortgage application. They then filled out a separate 
PPI application form specifying the level of cover they wanted to have, and they signed a 
direct debit instruction. The PPI was noted on their Mortgage Offer under Optional 
Insurance.
So, in my view, there is very clear evidence that Lloyds properly obtained their consent.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr D as part of an advised sale, so it was 
for Lloyds to check that the PPI was right for their situation. 
I think it was.
This is because Mr D was eligible for the cover and whilst I agree its possible he could have 
had some sickness protection through his job, this was a mortgage secured against Mrs and 
Mr Ds home and the consequences of getting into financial difficulties were serious. The 
policy would have paid out for up to a year if successfully claimed on and this would have 
been in addition to any other means they already had, no doubt during challenging times.
Mr D appears to have been with his employer, at that time of this 2007 sale, for longer than 
his representatives stated, and Ive also considered what was said about him having death 
in service benefit with his job. However, I note no evidence of this type of benefit was 
supplied by the representative, and in any event, it covers a different eventuality to the PPI. 
Having both type of insurance dont cause a conflict, in my view.
Its certainly possible the information Lloyds gave to Mrs and Mr D about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it might have been. For example, I dont think all the policy rules would have been 
made clear enough, particularly around certain exclusions and limitations. Some of the policy 
rules about back pain or mental health conditions might not have been clear enough.
However, having considered these possible deficiencies with great care, I think there would 
have been a discussion about the PPI and its suitability for them although I obviously cant 
say now what that discussion centred on. Nevertheless, the paperwork they signed does 
look quite comprehensive to me and I think they knew the costs, who was covered and what 
was covered. I t5hink they would have known there were rules about some claims. Overall, I 
think they probably had enough information on which to make an informed decision about 
what they wanted to do. Also, the cover wasnt too dissimilar to what they reasonably 
thought they were buying from the information they were most likely given at the point of 
sale. At around £35 per month, it also looks like it was affordable for them and useful if 
something went wrong. I havent seen anything about Mr Ds health that would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. And I dont think he would have expected to claim for certain 
illnesses without providing at least some evidence.
So, I can see the PPI would have been of use to them and I think thats why they bought it. I 
dont think Mrs and Mr D would have acted differently even if I accept that Lloyds could have 
done a better job at explaining some things during the sale; I still think theyd have wanted to 
take this cover out as all the evidence points to them wanting this form of mortgage 
protection.
Mrs and Mr Ds representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Lloyds should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim. But Mrs and Mr Ds representative has not said how these points 
apply to the specific facts and circumstances of Mrs and Mr Ds individual complaint  just 
that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs and Mr Ds particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale element of this complaint. This means Lloyds doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs and Mr D.
non-disclosure of commission
This was a regulated mortgage so the rules about commission dont apply to this particular 
complaint, as our adjudicator has explained.
my final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or make any award in favour of Mrs and Mr D.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman