DRN-2052742
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc unfairly refused to extend the 
term of their buy to let mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a buy to let mortgage with TMW on an interest only basis in 2009. 
The mortgage term expired in June 2019 with an unpaid balance of about £60,000. Mrs S 
says she was told to wait until three months before the term expired and would then be able 
to extend. In March 2019 she asked to extend the mortgage, and TMW declined.
Mrs S says TMW moved the goal posts at the last minute. If shed known it wouldnt extend 
the term shed have made plans to repay the mortgage. When she brought the complaint to 
us, Mrs S said shed have to re-mortgage several of her other properties to raise the funds to 
repay TMW. Mrs S says the property has always been occupied by a family member, and its 
unfair for to TMW to refuse extend the term because it changed its own lending criteria 
during the term of the mortgage.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said while TMW 
had given Mr and Mrs S incorrect information about extending the mortgage, it had acted 
fairly in extending the term for six months to allow them to review their options. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me. Mrs S says TMW 
treated her unfairly by not extending the mortgage, and this was only because a family 
member lives in the property. She says TMW changed its lending criteria and it should have 
offered a solution. Since the complaint came to us, Mrs S says she had to sell one of her 
other properties cheaply to achieve a quick sale to repay the mortgage. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S took out a regulated buy to let mortgage with TMW in 2009. A family member 
lives in the property. The term was due to expire in June 2019. Mr and Mrs S asked to 
extend the term in March 2019. 
TMW said it couldnt extend the term of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage for 10 years, as theyd 
asked. It says this is because it no longer offers regulated buy to let mortgages. Mr and 
Mrs S dont meet TMWs criteria for an unregulated buy to let mortgage as a family member 
lives in the property. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Ss frustration that TMW didnt offer them an extension or a new 
buy to let mortgage. But lenders are entitled to review their lending criteria, and decide 
whether to offer, or continue to offer, certain products. I dont think, in the circumstances, its 
reasonable to say that TMW should have offered Mr and Mrs S an extension or new 
mortgage when they dont meet its lending criteria for the mortgages it currently offers.
However, TMW did make errors. It told Mr and Mrs S it could extend the term of the 
mortgage, subject to assessing affordability, and corrected this only a few weeks before the 
term was due to expire. As a result, Mr and Mrs S found themselves unexpectedly having to 
raise funds to repay the mortgage.
TMW also incorrectly said Mr and Mrs S had breached the mortgage conditions by letting the 
property to a family member. This must have been frustrating and upsetting. 
Given the incorrect information TMW gave to Mr and Mrs S, I think its right that it allowed 
them more time to repay the mortgage. It told them in early April 2019 it would extend the 
term for six months to allow them to review their options. There was a misunderstanding 
about whether the six months ran from April or June, but TMW allowed Mr and Mrs S until 
the end of the year.
When deciding if this was reasonable, Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances. 
They did have options for repaying the mortgage. TMWs contact notes say they were 
looking to re-mortgage with another provider. Its clear from what Mrs S has said that they 
had other properties they could re-mortgage or sell. In the circumstances, I think the 
extension offered by TMW was reasonable. The mortgage was repaid in early 2020.
Mrs S says she had to sell a property cheaply to get a quick sale and raise funds to repay 
the mortgage. I understand she might have planned things differently if shed known before 
the term expired that the mortgage wouldnt be extended. But I cant now know with any 
certainty whether Mr and Mrs S would have been in a better financial position as a result. 
TMW paid compensation of £75 for the inconvenience caused. Mrs S says this is little 
compensation when the monthly payments increased by £100. She says TMW should have 
allowed them to take out a new interest rate product. I dont think thats reasonable. TMW 
was asking Mr and Mrs S to repay the mortgage  a new product would likely have meant 
them incurring an early repayment charge.
I think TMW allowed Mr and Mrs S a reasonable amount of time to consider how to repay 
the mortgage. I think, in the circumstances, this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve the 
situation. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I find the steps taken by 
The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc to put matters right were fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman