The complaint
Ms C complains about the misleading information she was given by National Westminster 
Bank Plc (NatWest) about the clearance time for an international cheque.
What happened
Ms C paid an international cheque into her account and was told it would take 10 days to 
clear. She says she was then told it would take 28 days to clear before receiving a letter 
from NatWest telling her it would take 12 weeks. Ms C says her sister received an identical 
cheque and her bank processed it in three days. She says the situation has caused 
inconvenience and questions why it took so long to process the cheque and would like an 
explanation.
NatWest accepts it gave Ms C incorrect information and has apologised. It says the letter 
contained the correct information, that an internation cheque can take up to 12 weeks to 
clear. Natwest says it can't comment on another banks process and has paid £50 
compensation for the inconvenience. It says the cheque cleared within that 12 week period.
Ms C brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought NatWest had dealt fairly with 
it. The investigator accepted NatWest had made mistakes but thought it had processed the 
cheque within its time scale of 12 weeks. The investigator also explained our role and that 
we couldn't comment on why a different bank would process a cheque far quicker. And that 
the compensation amount was appropriate.
Ms C doesn't accept that view and says she has received poor customer service and says 
had she known how long this process took, would have cashed the cheque elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the 
overall view that NatWest didn't deal appropriately with Ms C but has fairly apologised and 
paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation.
We are not NatWest's regulator and so it's not our role to tell it what its process should be for 
the processing of international cheques or that we can punish or fine it for any mistakes it 
makes.
There is no question here that Ms C was given incorrect information on two 
separate occasions and was told the cheque would clear in 10 days and then later told 28 
days. I'm sure in those circumstances Ms C would have been frustrated to receive conflicting 
information and was caused inconvenience in asking NatWest why her cheque hadn't 
DRN-1846940cleared. I accept NatWest staff in branch ought to have known how long the cheque would 
take to clear or ought to have found out the answer if they didn't know. But I'm satisfied that 
NatWest has apologised and accepted responsibility for its mistake. And I'm also satisfied 
that it's paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation of £50. I don't 
think Ms C suffered any financial loss as a result of being given incorrect information and I 
can see the money was available in her account in January 2020.
I appreciate Ms C says her sister's cheque cleared in three days. I have no reason to doubt 
what Ms C says about that and I appreciate her point that she wishes she had paid her 
cheque into a different account. But I can't fairly comment on that or on another bank's 
process, as I can only consider the actions of NatWest in this complaint. And having looked 
at NatWest's records I'm satisfied that its process is that an international cheque takes up to 
12 weeks to clear which is what took place here. So I can't fairly conclude that 
NatWest didn't follow its process.
Overall I'm satisfied that Ms C received her money but ought to have been given the correct 
information at the outset when she attended a NatWest branch. For the reasons I have 
explained I can't fairly order NatWest do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August  2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman