DRN-4464792
The complaint
Mr C complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) hasnt paid him the £125 account 
opening incentive that it had advertised.
What happened
I set out the background and provisional findings to Mr Cs complaint in my provisional 
decision and here.
On 15 November 2022 Mr C applied for a current account with Co-op and applied to switch 
another account as part of Co-ops £125 refer-a-friend scheme, and his switch completed on 
9 December. On 12 December Co-op emailed Mr C that hed already benefitted from this 
offer and wouldnt receive the payment. Mr C said although he had received £50 in May 
2022 as part of Co-ops previous offer, he hadnt received anything under the £125 offer. 
Mr C said the offers were entirely separate with different terms and conditions, but Co-op 
wouldnt pay him because it said he wasnt a new customer. Mr C said when he applied for 
the second Co-op account he had no other accounts with Co-op and was a new customer. 
He said the terms of the scheme state to be an new customer he must open a new account, 
and complete a switch into a new account using the switch service, and the account must be 
open when the incentive is to be paid, all of which he said had done.  
Co-op rejected Mr Cs complaint saying, the conditions of its scheme state that he is only 
able to receive one recommendation payment for switching his current account to Co-op and 
he had received a previous incentive payment.  
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Co-ops response and referred his complaint to our service. He 
said it had taken time trying to get the issue resolved and he would like the refer-a-friend 
payment, plus the £1 cost of making the phone call and an apology for the inconvenience.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said there was only one 
account opening offer from Co-op, for which the payment was enhanced. She said under the 
terms Mr C could have been considered a new customer as the requirement to switch the 
main current account wasnt clear. However, the terms are clear that Co-op intended to pay 
new customers once, who had not benefited before. And so the investigator didnt think Mr C 
was eligible for a second payment under the same scheme and said hed made a mistake in 
believing he had met the full terms and conditions of the scheme, which remined the same.
Mr C disagreed and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He provided messages 
from a forum about people who received an incentive payment before October 2022 and 
then switched Co-op accounts out prior to the £125 offer in November 2022, and received 
the £125 incentive as part of the new scheme. Mr C thought it reasonable to assume that a 
significant change to the terms of the scheme, including the amount payable would 
constitute the launch of a new offer. He made the point that regulated firms are required to 
take steps to ensure that communications or financial promotions are fair, clear and not 
misleading. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
I have looked at all of the information the parties have provided about Mr Cs complaint to 
see if Co-op has acted within the terms and conditions of its refer-a-friend scheme, and to 
see if it has treated him fairly.
Mr C has sent copies of messages from forums and details of another banks incentive 
scheme. Although these are of interest, and indicate the possibility that some customers 
have received a second incentive payment. Co-ops decision not to pay the incentive to Mr C 
has to be considered in accordance with the terms and conditions of the scheme.  
Co-op has said the refer-a-friend scheme has been operating since February 2020 and the 
terms and conditions have been amended since then. It said the scheme was relaunched in 
February 2023, but this was not a new offer or a new scheme. It also said it didnt consider 
Mr C to be a new customer just because of the change of account details as he was linked 
to a previous closed account. 
Mr C thinks the terms and conditions dont clearly say the scheme is for new customers who 
have not been referred before or who are not returning customers. He says theres nothing 
in the terms and conditions or the literature accompanying the scheme to say whether the 
scheme is a relaunch of a previous one or a new offer. Mr C also noted that being an 
existing customer of Co-op didnt make him ineligible for the scheme  the terms and 
conditions only state that the recommended friend must open a new current account and 
complete a full switch from their old account. And its webpage states that the person being 
referred would qualify if they dont have a Co-op current account. 
Mr C says he held an account with Co-op and received the £50 payment then applying. But 
he didnt have an account in November 2022 when he applied for an account with Co-op 
under the amended scheme. 
The terms of the scheme state that, The Recommended Friend is entitled to only one 
payment even if they switch more than one account to us or if more than one Recommender 
refers them. And so even though Mr C didnt hold a current account with Co-op when he 
made his second application, he was potentially ineligible for the incentive payment under 
this term as he previously received an incentive payment. 
However, Co-op has a responsibility to provide information to its customers that is clear, fair 
and not misleading. Mr C doesnt think the terms and conditions of the refer-a-friend scheme 
are clear. And, on balance, I agree. Co-op has said the scheme is one scheme thats been 
re-launched and amended over the last three years. It seems its intention is to restrict a 
customer to one payment throughout the course of the whole scheme. But I dont think that 
is set out clearly in the terms and conditions. They simply say the recommended friend is 
only entitled to one payment. They dont say over what time period and theres no reference 
to previous terms and conditions or relaunches of the same scheme.
I also think the terms and conditions are unclear about the eligibility of returning customers 
or the definition of a main account. And so although I think Co-ops scheme only intends to 
make one incentive payment, I think it could have been clearer around eligibility to ensure 
that potential customers, such as Mr C, werent in any doubt about their entitlement. In my 
view, the terms are ambiguous and could be interpreted either way. And, as such, I dont 
think they meet the test of being clear, fair and not misleading. 
As a consequence, I think it was reasonable for Mr C to assume that he was eligible for the 
refer-a-friend incentive payment, and I am currently minded to require Co-op to pay Mr C 
£125 in order to put things right. This is in accordance with other decisions we have reached 
on Co-ops scheme.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr C said he had no further points to make before a 
final decision. And Co-op said it was happy to accept the decision and would pay Mr C the 
£125 when a final decision is received.
Given that both parties have made no challenges or further points in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason not to follow the outcome I proposed there.
Putting things right
It follows that I remain of the view that it was reasonable for Mr C to assume that he was 
eligible for the refer-a-friend incentive payment, and that in order to put things right it would 
be fair for Co-op to pay Mr C £125. 
My final decision
For the reasons given here, it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. I require The 
Co-operative Bank Plc to pay Mr C £125 under the refer-a-friend scheme.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman