DRN-3881404
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Revolut Ltd has refused to refund the money he lost after falling victim 
to a scam.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
In December 2021 Mr E received a phone call from someone who told him they worked 
for his bank. This individual, who turned out to be a scammer, persuaded Mr E that his 
account had been compromised so the money in it needed to be moved to a safe 
account. He told Mr E to open an account with Revolut, transfer the balance of his bank 
account to this new account and then send the majority of the money on to another 
account held with another provider (which the scammer led Mr E to believe had been 
opened in his name). 
Mr E contacted Revolut soon after realising hed been scammed and Revolut was able to 
recover £400 from the receiving account. But it refused to refund the remaining £2,200 
Mr E had lost because it said it had given him various warnings relating to possible 
scams, which hed ignored. Unhappy with Revoluts response, Mr E referred a complaint 
to this service.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld as he didnt think Revolut 
ought to have done more than it did. Mr E remained unhappy, so the complaint has been 
referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Revolut has referred to the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
Code in some of its correspondence. But the Code doesnt apply in this case as Revolut isnt 
signed up to it.
Its not in dispute that Mr E set up the Revolut account and instigated the transfers in and out 
that Ive mentioned above. So, although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, 
Mr E is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. 
But, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice 
and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate for a bank 
or electronic money institution like Revolut to take additional steps or make additional checks 
before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. An example of this would be if a payment instruction is sufficiently 
unusual or uncharacteristic given the usual use of the account. In such circumstances Id 
expect Revolut to intervene and ask more questions about the intended transaction before 
processing it. Id also expect Revolut to provide suitable warnings about common scams to 
help its customer make an informed decision about whether they want to continue with the 
payment. But I also expect any intervention to be proportionate to the circumstances of the 
payment.
In this case Mr E didnt have an account with Revolut before the scam, so there was no 
transaction history with which to compare the activity on the day in question. Revolut says it 
provided some warnings to Mr E when he set up the new payee  in particular because the 
Confirmation of Payee check indicated that the name he gave for the receiving account 
didnt match the name the account was actually held in. And further warnings were given 
when he actually made the payment. Mr E told us he saw the warnings, but that he wasnt 
thinking properly because he was worried his bank account was at risk.
All things considered, I think Revoluts intervention was proportionate, given the individual 
circumstances of this case, and Im not persuaded it needed to do anything more. 
Im also satisfied Revolut acted reasonably in attempting to recover Mr Es funds, but that it 
was only able to recover £400. Its fairly typical with these types of scams for fraudsters to 
move money away from the receiving account, straight after the payments are made, 
presumably to frustrate the efforts at this type of recovery. 
In all the circumstances I cant fairly instruct Revolut to refund Mr Es remaining £2,200 loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman