DRN-1344679
The complaint
Mr S complains that Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc didnt alert him to potential 
additional charges if he settled a financial agreement, he held with it, by using a credit card. 
He also says that Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc failed to respond to his complaint.
What happened
Mr S entered into a financial agreement for a car with Toyota Financial Services. In February 
2019 Mr S decided he would settle the outstanding finance and accessed Toyota Financial 
Services website and payment portal. Mr S says his original intention was to pay via his 
debit card but, for an unknown reason, was unable to do so, and he decided to clear the 
balance with his credit card instead.
Mr S was later advised by his credit card provider that this payment had been treated as a 
cash transaction meaning that an additional charge was incurred. Mr S complained to 
Toyota Financial Services that it hadnt alerted him to any potential charges should he 
choose to use a credit card for this transaction. Toyota Financial Services did not respond to 
this complaint.
Mr S complained to this service. Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Ss complaint should 
be upheld. He said that he didnt think Toyota Financial Services had any obligation to 
advise about potential charges being added if credit cards were used to make payments 
under a financial agreement it held with a consumer. This responsibility would lie with the 
credit card provider who should provide that information to their clients. 
Our investigator also said that, although Toyota Financial Services should have replied to Mr 
Ss complaint, it hadnt done so as it didnt consider it was responsible for any charges levied 
by a third party. He said he didnt think the lack of response had changed the outcome as Mr 
S had been aware he could refer his complaint to this service and had done so.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view. He said he hadnt needed to dispute credit 
charges in the past because hed always been aware of his liability before as information 
had been provided, such as admin fees for certain transactions. Mr S said he thought both 
the credit card provider and Toyota Financial Services were liable for providing him with 
sufficient information that would enable him to make an informed decision about using a 
credit card in these circumstances. 
Mr S also said that Toyota Financial Services was under an obligation to respond to his 
complaint. And that it wasnt possible for the investigator to say what course of action would 
have been followed, had it replied, as it was possible he may have considered his complaint 
resolved.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and I appreciate my decision will be of disappointment to 
him.
Mr S says that Toyota Financial Services had an obligation to warn him that if he used his 
credit card that he might incur additional charges. But I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable to say Toyota Financial Services has a responsibility to provide information 
about charges that may arise if products from third party finance providers are used to make 
payment or settle balances on its financial agreements. It is for those third-party providers to 
inform consumers about the terms and conditions that apply when using their products.
Ive seen that Mr S has said hes always been aware of charges in the past and has given 
admin fees on transactions as an example. However, this situation isnt analogous with an 
additional admin fee which is added by the company being paid for providing a service, as 
here, the additional charges werent being paid to Toyota Financial Services but are owed to 
the credit card provider. Toyota Financial Services isnt involved with, nor does it have any 
knowledge of the charges being added by the credit card provider. If the charges had been 
payable to Toyota Financial Services then I would agree with Mr S that it had an obligation to 
be clear that these would be applied, but that wasnt the case here.
Toyota Financial Services is a motor vehicle finance provider and would be unaware of 
charges and processes applied by other credit providers. Its responsibility was to make Mr S 
aware of the terms and conditions for its own products. And I think its reasonable for Toyota 
Financial Service to have relied on a third-party finance provider providing its terms and 
conditions to Mr S for any product he held with it. So, I dont think the lack of warning of 
potential charges if a credit card was used to settle an account with Toyota Financial 
Services was unfair.
 
Mr S says that Toyota Financial Services had an obligation to respond to his letter of 
complaint. Toyota Financial Services says it didnt deal with Mr Ss complaint because it 
wasnt liable for the actions of the credit card provider. Complaint handling by businesses 
isnt something that this service can generally investigate. Thats because complaint 
handling isnt a regulated activity unlike providing credit or financial advice. 
However, looking at this complaint although I agree Toyota Financial Services should have 
responded and its lack of an acknowledgment has caused Mr S frustration, I dont think its 
likely there would have been a different outcome. Thats because Mr S feels strongly Toyota 
Financial Services should have provided a warning and Toyota Financial Services are 
adamant that wasnt its role. I dont think it was likely that either party would have moved 
from the stance they have taken.
Mr S was always aware of his rights to bring a complaint to this service and so, while I 
acknowledge it would have been disappointing not to receive a final response letter, I dont 
think it has prevented him from exercising his rights to use this service.
So for the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2020.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman