DRN-2899127
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly refused them a 
mortgage on a new property which meant that they were unable to port their existing 
mortgage product and had to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). They would like this 
charge refunded.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G took out further borrowing with a NatWest mortgage in 2019 and fixed the 
interest rate with a new mortgage product. The borrowing at that stage was £176,339.09. If 
Mr and Mrs G redeemed the mortgage within the fixed rate period, an ERC was payable, but 
this could be avoided if the mortgage product was ported. Mr and Mrs G applied for a 
mortgage on a new property through a broker in September 2020. The application was for 
borrowing of £272,000. This application was made during the Covid pandemic and Mrs G 
had applied and got financial assistance through the Self-Employed Income Support 
Scheme (SEISS). The new mortgage was refused on affordability grounds which meant 
that in order to buy the new property Mr and Mrs G had to source a mortgage elsewhere 
then redeem the mortgage and pay an ERC.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that 
NatWest acted fairly in assessing that the proposed new borrowing and Mr and Mrs G didnt 
meet their affordability criteria. Mr and Mrs G disagreed saying in summary that in 
calculating Mrs Gs income that it should have considered her actual income rather than 
doing a calculation based on her SEISS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked for additional information from both parties to this complaint and I thank them for 
their assistance. NatWest provided a discounted mortgage product to Mr and Mrs G in 2019 
which could have been ported to another property if they applied for and were successful in 
obtaining a mortgage. But that application depended on meeting NatWests lending criteria 
at time of application. Mr and Mrs G were applying for a substantially larger mortgage and 
werent simply replacing like for like. But when they applied, NatWests lending criteria had 
tightened significantly at precisely the time that Mr and Mrs G applied for this increased 
borrowing. In particular NatWest brought in underwriting criteria that applied to prospective 
borrowers such as Mrs G who had applied for assistance through the SEISS. 
The strict NatWest criteria at that time - that I have had access to - was that in assessing 
affordability that it couldnt use income derived from a business that applied for a SEISS 
grant. It also couldnt use the income derived from a SEISS grant. From access to NatWests 
decision-making process, it appears that the underwriter didnt strictly follow the lending 
criteria. The underwriter went through a process of looking at the past three months of Mrs 
Gs self-employed income, decided that as it was less than expected on previous years 
income that it indicated a problem associated with the pandemic and so relied on an 
assessment based on annualising the SEISS grant. I dont see that annualising the grant is 
contained in NatWests lending criteria that I have seen, but it would seem to result in a more 
favourable outcome for Mr and Mrs G than if the underwriter had followed NatWest lending 
criteria and not considered the grant or the income at all. 
Mr and Mrs Gs broker forcefully says that the three months fall in Mrs Gs income during the 
summer was due to seasonal factors and I understand that and am sympathetic to that 
position. The problem I have is that if I fall back on NatWests strict lending criteria that 
applied at this time, its clear that because Mrs G had applied for SEISS that this application 
would, in any case, have failed the affordability test. 
Mr and Mrs Gs broker has suggested that in considering the SEISS grant that NatWest has 
acted unfairly because the grant was intended to cover income losses. That seems to have 
been its purpose and I note from the government website that an SEISS application is based 
on the applicant making a claim based on the expectation of a significant reduction in their 
trading profits due to the impact of Coivd-19. That may not be the best time to be making an 
application for increased borrowing. That being the case, I dont consider it unreasonable 
that at this particular time, on the basis that Mrs G felt that her income would be affected by 
the pandemic, that NatWest concluded that it couldnt rely on Mrs Gs past income as being 
a reliable guide to her future income and refused this application on affordability grounds. 
So, I cant fairly uphold this complaint 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman