DRN-2892483
The complaint
Mr R complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) caused 
delays in processing his drawdown and pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) 
request, which has meant hes lost out.
What happened
At 12:23pm on 17 March 2020 Mr R, via his financial adviser, made an electronic request to 
move his pension into drawdown and take a PCLS, otherwise known as tax free cash. On 
1 April 2020 Mr Rs adviser asked to cancel this, saying he no longer needed the funds. But 
it was authorised the next day and paid to Mr R on 8 April 2020. This was £8,197 less than 
he expected due to unit price adjustments (UPA) being applied on 17 and 19 March 2020. 
Mr R complained to Prudential that, in summary, the UPAs wouldnt have applied had his 
request been authorised on 17 March 2020 and Prudential doesnt make its service level 
agreements (SLA) clear. He also said that on 15 March 2020 he asked to add a single 
contribution of £1,920 (net) to his retirement account, which was incorrectly included in his 
PCLS meaning wont accumulate future possible beneficial interest in the fund.  
In response, Prudential said its system didnt automatically process Mr Rs PCLS request, so 
its internal SLA of 10 working days applied. It said it isnt required to publish these and its 
terms and conditions say requests will be processed as soon as reasonably practicable. It 
said Mr Rs funds had to be sold to pay the PCLS from his cash account and its SLA for 
disinvestment is six working days.
It said while this should have happened by 25 March 2020, rather than 2 April 2020, and 
then been cancelled on 1 April 2020 as per Mr Rs request, the UPAs would have always 
affected his fund in that case. Prudential paid Mr R £150 compensation and £101.12 in 
interest (after tax) for the delay in paying his PCLS though. It also offered to take it back for 
reinvestment and check if there was any lost growth due to failing to cancel his request. 
Prudential also said it should have paid Mr Rs contribution to his account on 25 March 2020, 
instead of on 1 April 2020. And this, alongside the PCLS delay, meant it was included in the 
crystallised amount. It calculated £21.37 in lost growth on this, which it said its added to 
Mr Rs retirement account, and it paid him a further £100 compensation. 
Unhappy with this, Mr R brought his complaint to us. Prudential has since said its offer to 
take the PCLS back is no longer open. And Mr R said he doesnt want to return it, as hed 
always wanted it and he doesnt want to risk it being vulnerable to fluctuation again. 
One of our investigators looked into it and said Prudential didnt guarantee the value and it 
acted within its terms and conditions by applying the UPAs. He said it offered to reinstate his 
PCLS, which would have put Mr R back in the position as though his instruction hadnt been 
given, and that by refusing this hes accepted the price. He also said the £250 compensation 
Prudentials already paid was fair and reasonable. 
Mr R didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me for a decision. I told Prudential that 
I currently think the real issue is an initial system error, rather than whether it met its SLAs. 
I said I appreciate its terms and conditions say requests will be processed as soon as 
reasonably possible. But I can see Mr Rs request couldnt be automatically processed due 
to a system error and theres no evidence this was due to anything particular to it that 
needed resolving. In fact, its internal email on 2 April 2020 said As far as I can see all 
checks came out as a pass so the crystallisation and sell down should have happened 
straight away. For some reason the payment did not authorise. 
I said it seems that its only where checks fail and further requirements are needed that 
requests such as Mr Rs cant be processed automatically. So I dont think its unreasonable 
that Mr Rs told us he expected the process to be almost instantaneous. Especially when 
theres no suggestion his adviser would have been alerted to the error to think something 
had gone wrong. So I said that Im minded to say Mr R shouldnt have to bear the impact of 
this, with his fund value left vulnerable to market fluctuations and UPAs for longer. 
Particularly when this could leave him disadvantaged compared to another customer in a 
similar position who didnt encounter such an error.
Prudential replied saying, in summary, that there was no system error. It said the fund value 
fluctuates depending on performance and a request doesnt lock in a price. And that the 
account terms and conditions dont say its required to inform customers of delays and 
theres no timescale mentioned for the process to be completed. It also said the internal 
email Ive referred to is from one of its points of contact for IFAs and their perception was 
before the complaint had been investigated.
Prudential said Mr Rs PCLS request was submitted shortly after the pricing point at 
12:00 midday on 17 March 2020. A UPA was announced later that afternoon and again on 
19 March 2020, as per the account terms and conditions. PCLS must be paid from the cash 
account, so funds had to be sold and moved to that first. Its SLA could be considered longer 
than expected as it processes such a request manually rather than electronically, as further 
checks are required when moving funds into drawdown. It has six working days to sell the 
units and theres no guarantee this would be done by the next valuation point on 
18 March 2020, by which time the UPA announced the day before would have applied. 
It added that other transactions were going through the system, such as a product charge 
due to be deducted on 21 March 2020 and an ongoing adviser charge, both of which 
required a sell down of funds to be paid in cash. And funds were being purchased in relation 
to the £2,000 contribution Mr R made on 12 March 2020. And that this all means Mr R was 
always going to be subject to the UPAs. It said the only way he might have been able to 
avoid this was to return the funds, which he refused. 
I let Mr R know that I think its likely that a system error  which I dont think he should have 
to bear the impact of  meant Prudential couldnt process his drawdown and PCLS request 
automatically. And if this had been done automatically, rather than based on Prudentials 
SLA, I think his request is likely to have achieved a sale sooner than it did. So I think 
Prudential should establish if hes at a loss as a result. I said the redress method I intend to 
recommend means its likely the first UPA would still apply though, as his request was 
submitted at 12:23pm on 17 March 2020, which means he missed the price point cut off at 
12:00 midday that day and the UPA was announced later that afternoon.
And, in response, Mr R said he was happy for me to proceed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is unclear, or conflicting, Ive looked at the information available to help 
me decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened. And having considered 
Prudentials most recent response alongside all the information, Im not persuaded Mr Rs 
request couldnt be processed automatically due to further checks being needed when 
moving funds into drawdown. Ill explain why. 
When answering Mr Rs complaint Prudential said its system should process this 
automatically but as it didnt it looks to its standard SLA, rather than saying the type of 
request he made needs to be done manually due to further checks. The first time Prudential 
has gone as far as to say this was due to further drawdown checks was in response to my 
initial thoughts. 
One of Prudentials final response letters does say the drawdown request cannot be 
completed electronically so its manually processed, but it doesnt say why. And when our 
investigator drew this to Prudentials attention and asked for more information about its 
process, it said there was a system error which meant Mr Rs request couldnt be 
automatically processed, so it was allocated to a case handler to complete manually. 
At the same time Prudential sent us screenshots of the system error, where the message 
said it was Unable to calculate Cash Survey for account and that There are outstanding 
commitments. And when it answered our investigators further question about why its 
system failed to process the request automatically, it said it couldnt explain this system 
error, as it was just that, an error and it cant provide any other details or explanation for this. 
So it seems to me that Prudentials explanation of what happened has evolved over time. 
And, taking everything into account, on balance, I think its likely a system error  which Ive 
seen evidence of and Prudential hasnt been able to explain  stopped Mr Rs request being 
processed automatically when it otherwise would have.
Prudentials said a request doesnt lock in a price as sell down still needs to take place. And 
that theres no guarantee funds would be sold or disinvested at the next valuation point on 
18 March 2020, by which time the first UPA would have taken effect. I also appreciate 
Prudentials comments about its internal email dated 2 April 2020. 
But more than one UPA was applied. And given that email contained the view of its point of 
contact for IFAs, its reasonable to think they know what usually happens when requests 
such as Mr Rs are made. So I think its fair to place some weight on their view that as 
checks came out a pass sell down should have happened straightaway in Mr Rs case. This 
is also in line with Mr Rs comments that he expected the process to be almost 
instantaneous given his conversations with, and the experience of, his adviser. And it seems 
reasonable to me to think Prudentials automatic process is much quicker than its manual 
SLA based process, where it has six working days to sell units. 
Prudential hasnt explained why the other transactions would have impacted the automatic 
process on 17 March 2020. And I cant see why they would, as the product charge wasnt 
due until 21 March 2020 and the ongoing adviser charge wasnt taken until 24 March 2020. If 
Prudential is referring to the single contribution it received from Mr R on 15 March 2020, it 
didnt invest this until 1 April 2020. And, even if its referring to an earlier contribution, it 
hasnt explained why purchasing funds using this would have impacted on existing funds 
being sold to generate enough cash for the PCLS or how long this would have taken.
In summary, it seems to me that the majority of requests of this nature would be processed 
and achieve a sale much sooner than Mr Rs was, if not straightaway. And I dont think its 
fair for him to be disadvantaged by a system error. In which case, considering I can see Mr Rs request was made after the 12:00 midday price point cut off on 17 March 2020, I think 
a fair and reasonable outcome is for Prudential to use the price point Ive detailed in Putting 
things right below to establish if hes experienced a financial loss as a result. 
I note Prudential received a request to cancel Mr Rs PCLS before it was paid. And that he 
later refused its offer to return this for reinvestment and to see if he experienced a loss. But 
this doesnt change my decision, as Mr R has said he always wanted the PCLS and I think 
the cancellation request was made by his adviser in an attempt to help avoid the impact of 
the UPAs. And I dont think he needs to return it for Prudential to see if hes experienced a 
loss due to the earlier system error. 
For completeness, Mr R doesnt seem to be disputing what Prudential has done to put right 
its error with his £1,920 single contribution, so I havent considered this any further. And 
I think the £250 in total compensation Prudentials already paid Mr R is a fair and reasonable 
amount in the circumstances, especially considering it has tried to make up for its errors. 
Putting things right
Prudential should recalculate the sale proceeds Mr R would have achieved, and therefore 
available as the PCLS, had the sale of the relevant part of his pension savings been 
completed at the first pricing point available after 12:23pm on 17 March 2020. I understand 
the sale would only have applied to the relevant 25% of Mr Rs pension, so should have no 
impact on his remaining investments that were crystalised by the transaction. If this would 
have resulted in Mr R receiving a higher PCLS, the additional amount should be paid to him. 
Prudential should add interest to any additional amount it pays Mr R at a rate of 8% per 
annum from the date the PCLS was originally paid to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & 
Customs requires Prudential to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr R a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and direct The 
Prudential Assurance Company Limited to put things right in the way Ive detailed above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2022.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman