DRN-3133080
The complaint
Mr M complains that U K Insurance sent renewal documentation for his home insurance 
policy to the wrong address.
What happened
Mr M contacted U K Insurance to transfer a breakdown cover policy into his sons name. 
Due to an error his home insurance policy details were also changed. This resulted in his 
renewal document being sent to his sons address, and in his sons name. 
Five days after his contact with U K Insurance Mr M called again to highlight the error. He 
was told the correct process hadnt been followed, which caused the problem. Because the 
names had been changed on the policies, Mr Ms son had to provide authority for the 
mistake to be amended. 
U K Insurance explained that a new policy shouldve been set up for Mr Ms son as opposed 
to changing the name on the existing policy. Because of its call handlers error, this also 
changed the name and address details on his home insurance policy. To acknowledge the 
inconvenience, it waived the premium on the breakdown cover policy and paid £100 
compensation to Mr M. 
Mr M is self-employed and says the time spent resolving U K Insurances mistake has cost 
him money. He wants a higher level of compensation to be provided and says there should 
be a system to prevent mistakes like this. 
Mr M referred the matter to our service. Our investigator decided not to uphold his complaint. 
She accepted the companys process hadnt been followed due to an individual error. And 
she thought the compensation Mr M received was appropriate to acknowledge the impact of 
U K Insurances mistake. 
Mr M disagreed and points to higher awards made by this service regarding other data 
breaches and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed, but I have decided not to uphold his complaint. I will 
explain why I think my decision is fair.
Mr M says that U K Insurance has breached data protection. But our service isnt the expert 
on data protection law. Questions around the legality of U K Insurances actions may be 
more suitable for the Information Commissioners Office. Mr M may wish to consider 
complaining to them if he wants to pursue this point. My responsibility here is to consider 
whether U K Insurances response was fair and reasonable, when it found out about the 
problem and, if appropriate, what amount of compensation is suitable.
U K Insurance explains the mistake was caused by its call handler not following the correct 
process. It says feedback has been provided to this individual to avoid a repeat of this error. 
Mr M suggests a process is needed to prevent future occurrences. 
From the records provided, its clear the individual who made the changes on Mr Ms 
account, didnt understand the correct process. It was appropriate that this was fed back to 
ensure the correct process was understood. I understand the necessary amendments were 
made relatively quickly once Mr M alerted the company to its mistake. Albeit this did require 
authorisation from his son, because the policy had been put in his name.
I can certainly understand why Mr M was concerned, given the company sent confidential 
policy information to an incorrect address. I can also understand the frustration he felt that 
his son needed to provide authority for U K Insurances mistake to be reversed.
That said, its clear from the available information that a process is in place to ensure this 
scenario shouldnt happen. It was an individual not following the process that resulted in the 
error. U K Insurance acted quickly to correct the policy and to speak to its employee when it 
became aware of the mistake. So, I think it did what it should have done to put this right. 
I have thought about the impact this had on Mr M when considering whether compensation 
is appropriate. 
The policy documentation went to Mr Ms sons address. So, although clearly this wasnt 
where it was supposed to go, this was a family member as opposed to an unknown third 
party. 
I acknowledge the point Mr M has made, that he may not have had a good relationship with 
his son, and the fact they are related doesnt alter the unacceptable breach of 
confidentiality. I agree with what he is saying here. However, I must consider the actual 
impact this event had on him, as opposed to what could have happened. I accept that Mr M 
has suffered inconvenience due to the impact on his time and the frustration this caused.  
Mr M points to other, higher, awards this service has made in relation to data breaches 
historically. Our role is to consider each complaint on its own merits, taking into account the 
impact on the individual(s) involved. I acknowledge his comments, but its appropriate that I 
focus on his circumstances and the impact the companys mistake had on him. Other 
complaints will involve different circumstances and have different impacts, which are not of 
relevance here.     
In considering all of this, because of the inconvenience and frustration Mr M was caused, a 
compensation payment is appropriate. I think the £100 payment U K Insurance gave was fair 
to acknowledge this. I note his comments that it cost him money because he is self-
employed. But I dont think hes shown an additional payment is justified here. The company 
waived the premium for his sons breakdown policy, which I also think was fair in these 
circumstances. So, I cant reasonably ask it to do any more to resolve this complaint.
My final decisionMy final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2021.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman