DRN-3535039
The complaint
Mrs E complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) didnt return an 
important original document to her and have subsequently mislaid it. 
What happened
In or around early 2020, Virgin asked Mrs E to provide them with various documents in 
relation to her account held with them. Mrs E sent the documents to Virgin at the beginning 
of February 2020. They consisted of some certified and some originals documents, including 
her original contract of employment. When submitting them, Mrs E asked for the original 
documents to be returned to her.
Mrs E later received some of the original documents back from Virgin but didnt receive her 
employment contract. So, Mrs E contacted Virgin around the end of February 2020 to 
request the original contract be returned to her. Virgin told her they would contact the 
appropriate department to arrange this. But Mrs E didnt receive the contract or a response 
from Virgin. 
Mrs E says she contacted Virgin again in or around September/October 2021 to chase 
return of the employment contract. She then raised a complaint with Virgin in November 
2021, as she still hadnt received the original employment contract from Virgin. She said she 
needed the original document so that she could provide it to another organisation. But Virgin 
didnt respond to her complaint within eight weeks, so she decided to refer matters to this 
service at the beginning of January 2022.
Our investigator contacted Virgin to establish what had happened. Virgin responded 
acknowledging they hadnt completed their investigation within eight weeks. They also 
confirmed their records showed the documents returned to Mrs E hadnt included the 
employment contract as shed requested. They agreed to uphold Mrs Es complaint and 
offered compensation of £100 for any distress and inconvenience caused. They also offered 
to cover the cost of any additional out of pocket expenses incurred in obtaining a 
replacement contract of employment.
Our investigators view thought Virgins resolution offer was fair in all the circumstances. But 
Mrs E didnt agree. She said Virgin had broken her trust and breached their contract. She 
said theyd given her false hope of returning her contract when they knew it was lost. She 
also said she wasnt in a position to obtain a new contract from her employer. Mrs E wants 
Virgin to pay compensation of £3,000.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mrs Es complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin have confirmed they didnt return Mrs Es employment contract to her as requested. 
Theyve said they cant locate the document and its likely to have been confidentially 
destroyed. Given Virgin agree they made a mistake here, I will not comment further on this 
aspect. My decision is therefore based upon what I believe is a fair and reasonable outcome, 
given all the circumstances. 
Mrs E has suggested that Virgin gave her false hope that her contract would be returned to 
her. She said she was not accepting this compensation offer after almost two years of 
losing my contractit should have been dealt with fairly and immediatelyI have wasted 
five months chasing thembeing distressed and inconvenient.
Virgins file notes show that Mrs E originally chased them for return of the contract on 28 
February 2020. But theres no further contact record until early November 2021, when she 
raised her complaint. I cant find any evidence or notes that suggest Virgin had confirmed to 
Mrs E theyd found the original of her contract of employment. Only, that they would 
investigate matters and return to her. So, while I appreciate Mrs E wouldve hoped it could 
be found and returned, I cant fairly say that Virgin had mislead her following her complaint to 
them.
Virgin have admitted they werent able to complete their investigations within an eight-week 
period. But once our investigator contacted them, Virgin accepted their mistake, apologised 
and offered redress to Mrs E. This appears to be around ten weeks after Mrs E raised her 
complained with them.
Mrs E wants Virgin to pay her compensation of £3,000. Compensation is a personal thing. 
What is seen as reasonable by one party may not be considered so by another. Mrs E did 
experience some inconvenience. But I think the amount offered by Virgin feels fair in all the 
circumstances here. I appreciate that Mrs E doesnt agree. But it isnt the role of this service 
to make awards in order to penalise Virgin for their mistakes here. Any award is considered 
based upon the impact Virgins mistake had upon Mrs E. And I think Virgins offer does that 
here.
Mrs E has said shes unable to get another copy of her contract. She hasnt said why and Im 
not aware of any reason why an employer might refuse to issue a replacement document. I 
dont believe it would be an unreasonable request. Virgin have agreed to cover any out of 
pocket expenses incurred in obtaining another employment contract document. Theyve also 
provided an electronic copy of the contract which has been sent to Mrs E. So, while I 
appreciate Mrs E will be disappointed, I think Virgins offer feels fair here.
As Virgins offer of redress was made after referral of Mrs Es complaint to this service, I 
shall be upholding her complaint. But I wont be asking Virgin to increase what theyve 
already offered.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Es complaint.
I require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to:
Pay compensation to Mrs E of £100; and
Cover any reasonable evidenced expenses incurred by Mrs E in obtaining a 
replacement original contract of employment from her employer.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman