DRN-2501645
The complaint
Mr P complained that Canada Square Operations Limited (CSOL) mis-sold his credit card 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr P bought the policy in May 2003 when he took out his credit card. CSOL said it was an 
online application and that it didnt advise Mr P to take out the policy. I can also see from the 
information provided by CSOL that Mr P closed his credit card in April 2004. Mr P couldnt 
remember much about the sale, but said he wasnt given a choice about taking the PPI, and 
indeed it was added without his knowledge and consent. He also said he didnt need the 
cover.
The policy cost 74p for each £100 Mr P owed on his credit card and provided accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover. If hed successfully claimed on the policy, each month it 
would have paid out 10% of what he owed on the card when he stopped working. This would 
have carried on for up to 12 months per claim. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed, and asked that it be referred to 
an ombudsman for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps 
complaint. Ill explain why.
CSOL sent in a copy of its computer records of Mr Ps credit card application, along with 
screenshots of its application process at the time. These show that there were yes and no 
options to give a choice about taking out PPI. And I cant see that either of the options would 
already have been completed. CSOLs computer record of Mr Ps application shows he 
selected PPI. So overall I think its most likely that Mr P was aware of the PPI and had a 
choice about taking it  and decided to do so. I think he probably just doesnt remember 
doing so as it was so long ago.
Im satisfied CSOL didnt advise Mr P to take out the PPI. But it shouldve given him enough 
information for him to decide if the policy was right for him. 
The screenshots show that a brief summary of the cover and the full terms and conditions 
wouldve appeared on pop-up screens, but I dont know whether these wouldve appeared 
automatically or whether Mr P wouldve had to click on links to see them. The brief summary 
included the premium of 74p per £100 owed, and I think its unlikely Mr P wouldve selected 
the PPI without wanting to know some idea of the cost, so I think its probable that he saw 
that screen. But I cant know whether Mr P looked at the full terms and conditions, or how 
the information wouldve appeared on screen if he did. So I cant be certain that CSOL 
clearly pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But I dont think Mr P wouldve 
been affected by any of these. 
As Ive said, CSOL explained on the screen that the cost of the policy was 74p for each £100 
owed. But I dont think it was clear that interest could be charged on the premiums, or that 
Mr P wouldve had to keep paying for the policy during a claim. 
Mr P told us that, when he took out the policy, he was entitled to sick pay from his employer 
of six months full pay followed by six months half pay. He also said he had some savings - 
based on the information shown on CSOLs computer records the amount he mentioned was 
equivalent to just under two months pay  although he didnt have any paperwork to confirm 
this. Mr P also said he had an additional pension income, and thought this had started in 
about 2002, although he only had current paperwork rather than anything from the time of 
the PPI sale. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr P said about his income and resources. As he couldnt 
state with certainty when his pension income had started, I looked at CSOLs computer 
record of Mr Ps application, being one of the few documents from the point of sale. This 
shows his gross annual and net monthly salary, but also has a heading other net income 
which shows as zero. It seems to me most likely that Mr P wouldve wanted to state his full 
income in support of his credit card application, so this makes me think that his pension 
income probably started later than he thought. Given that he took out the PPI over 
seventeen years ago its not surprising that he may not be able to recall his exact 
circumstances at the time. 
This is a finely balanced decision, but having considered all of the evidence and arguments 
in this case, I consider it more likely than not that Mr P would still have taken out the PPI had 
CSOL fully explained the terms and conditions. The policy provided useful benefits which 
would  notwithstanding the employment benefits and savings he mentioned  help him 
manage the consequences were he to be made redundant, or be unable to work through 
accident or disability. So on balance, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. This means Mr P 
isnt worse off as a result of what CSOL did wrong, so theres nothing it needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman