DRN-1593684
 
The complaint
Ms G complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didn't send her a passcode within the time it said it 
would. She also complains that Lloyds told her that she hadn't spoken to a specific member 
of staff when she had.
What happened
Ms G says she was told by Lloyds that a passcode that would allow her to use telephone 
banking would be sent to her within five working days. She says she didn't receive it and 
spoke to Lloyds about this and spoke to a member of staff I will call C. Ms G says Lloyds 
denied she had spoken to C which offended her. She also says she was told she could 
make payments without the passcode but later Lloyds told her it was needed. Ms G would 
like compensation for the distress and inconvenience she was caused.
Lloyds says the passcode was ordered on 24 October 2019 and it is not responsible for the 
safe delivery of the mail. It says it has no record of Ms G being told she could make 
payments without the passcode and also says Ms G didn't speak to C. Lloyds says it didn't 
give Ms G incorrect information or made a mistake.
Ms G brought her complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold the complaint. The 
investigator listened to the calls between the parties and didn't think Ms G had been told she 
could make a payment without the passcode or that she had spoken to C. The investigator 
thought Ms G had been told she needed the passcode and that it would take up to five 
working days to arrive.
Ms G doesn't accept that view and maintains she spoke to C and records her conversations 
with Lloyds but doesn't have that call recording.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons.
I have listened to all the available calls between the parties and I'm satisfied Ms G was told 
she needed a passcode before she would be able to make the payments she wanted to do. I 
don't think during any of the calls Ms G was told she didn't need it. So I don't think Lloyds 
made a mistake or gave Ms G incorrect information. I'm satisfied Ms G was told the 
passcode would arrive within five working days. I appreciate Ms G didn't receive the 
passcode within that time period but as Ms G knows Lloyds is not responsible for the 
delivery of mail. So I can't fairly hold Lloyds responsible for that delay.
I appreciate Ms G says she spoke to C and is offended by Lloyds telling her she did not. I 
am satisfied that Ms G didn't speak to C in the calls I have listened to but during one of the 
calls I think the advisor did speak to another member of staff. I don't think in any event it really matters which member of staff Ms G spoke to as I'm satisfied she wasn't given 
incorrect information. And I would have expected Ms G to have provided a copy of that call 
with C as she has told us she records her calls.
Overall I'm satisfied Lloyds has dealt fairly with this complaint, and so I can't fairly order it to 
pay the compensation she would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman