DRN-4458443
The complaint
Mr A has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) closed down his 
bank accounts without an explanation. Hed like an apology, compensation for his financial 
losses and for the stress he suffered as well as a detailed explanation as to why the closures 
were necessary.
What happened
In February 2022 Halifax wrote to Mr A to inform him that it was closing his accounts. It gave 
him 65 days notice before doing so and closed the accounts in April 2022. No transactions 
were impacted over that period and Mr A was free to use his accounts as normal.
 
Mr A called the bank to find out more information and was told hed be able to appeal the 
decision by attending one of its branches. He says he took a day off work, for which he 
wasnt paid, and went to one of Halifaxs branches but the staff at the branch were unhelpful 
and rude to him. He said he was told that he couldnt appeal the decision, but he could raise 
a complaint.
 
Mr A says he called Halifax a few weeks later to make his complaint and was again advised 
he could appeal the decision in branch. He went to a different branch and the staff eventually 
agreed to go through the appeal process with him.
 
Mr A says that the reason why his account was closed was never revealed to him. He said 
he assumed it was because he conducted transactions relating to his business from his 
personal account until he opened a business account with another bank a few months later. 
Mr As appeal was rejected, and he was told all his accounts and any other accounts he has 
with the same banking group would be closed. This included a Help to Buy individual 
savings account (ISA) which he had been using for the previous three years with a view to 
saving for a deposit to buy a house. He said this type of ISA is no longer available and that 
the closure cost him a £3,000 government bonus. 
Halifax upheld Mr As complaint in part. It apologised for not providing Mr A with a better 
service particularly as the branches werent able to assist him with lodging his appeal 
initially. It paid him £94 compensation for this. This was made up of £9 for phone calls, £25 
for distress and inconvenience, £30 for his travel costs and £30 for taking time off work. In 
relation to the closure of his accounts it said this was subsequent to it carrying out a risk 
assessment which highlighted some concerns. But it didnt provide further detail.  
 
Mr A complained to us. He said he wanted to be compensated for not being able to benefit 
from a Help to Buy ISA anymore and for the stress this has caused him. He also wanted a 
formal apology from Halifax in relation to how he was treated as well as a detailed 
explanation as to why his accounts were closed. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld and asked 
Halifax to pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it caused Mr A. Our 
investigator didnt think Halifax had provided enough evidence to show that it had reached its 
decision to close Mr As accounts fairly and reasonably. But she didnt feel any further 
compensation was warranted as Halifax gave Mr A 65 days notice which gave him enough 
time to minimise his losses by making other arrangements and transferring his funds 
elsewhere. 
Halifax agreed with our investigator. Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the case 
was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax has important legal and regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts 
to customers. These obligations are ongoing. To comply with its obligations Halifax may 
need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. The terms and conditions of 
Mr As accounts also permit Halifax to review an account. This means Halifax is entitled to 
review an account at any time.
 
A bank is also generally entitled to close an account providing its in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. In this instance the terms of Mr As accounts say that in certain 
instances Halifax can close accounts with immediate effect or by providing 60 days notice. 
And it doesnt have to provide a reason for doing so. 
I understand Mr A wants Halifax to explain the reason it decided to close his accounts. But 
Halifax doesnt have to disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts.  Its 
under no obligation to tell Mr A the reasons behind the account closure as much as hed like 
to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr A this information. And it 
wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
Turning to the banks decision to close Mr As accounts, Halifax needs to provide information 
to this service so we can fairly decide a complaint. Despite being asked by the investigator, 
Halifax has failed to provide information about why it closed Mr As accounts and the 
reasons why it no longer wanted to offer him banking services. Ive considered what Halifax 
has said about why it wont provide further information to our service about the reasons it 
closed Mr As accounts. This service has the power to request evidence of this nature under 
the dispute resolution rules (DISP) and Im not persuaded the reasons given by Halifax 
exclude it from complying with these rules. So, in this particular case, because of the lack of 
information I cant be satisfied that Halifax has treated Mr A fairly when it decided to close 
his accounts. Taking this into account, I agree with the investigator that Halifax should pay 
Mr A compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the bank closing his 
accounts. I think £100 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. In arriving at this figure, I 
have borne in mind the fact that Mr A had full access to his accounts and was able to make 
transactions as normal up to the point the accounts were closed. So, there was no significant 
impact on him. 
Mr A has asked for an apology from Halifax. I note that Halifax has already apologised in its 
final response letter, so I dont think a further apology is necessary. And I also dont think a 
forced apology would have much meaning. 
Mr A said he took two days unpaid leave to go to Halifaxs branches. Halifax has offered him 
compensation in relation to this which I think is reasonable. Mr A hasnt disclosed what his 
losses were or provided any evidence in support but, in any event, I dont think a full days 
leave for each visit would have been necessary bearing in mind the visits were a couple of 
hours long at most. Mr A said he has missed out on £3,000 that he would have been able to claim had his Help 
to Buy ISA not been closed. Mr A said that he was saving for a deposit to buy a house at the 
time. My understanding is that the £3,000 Mr A is referring to is the maximum bonus he may 
have been eligible for under his Help to Buy ISA (bearing in mind he satisfied other relevant 
conditions) and this bonus would have become available to him upon completion of the 
property transaction. This bonus would not have been available to him to use towards his 
deposit. I havent seen any evidence that Mr A was about to complete on a property and he, 
himself, said he was still saving for a deposit. So I dont think hes lost out in that respect. In 
any event, as far as I am aware, some lenders may accept transfers of Help to Buy ISAs. 
Mr A had 65 days notice before his account was closed. I cant see that he tried to transfer 
his Help to Buy ISA to another provider and was unable to. And even if he had, before 
awarding any compensation, I would have still had to consider the reasons for the refusal 
which may have had nothing to do with Halifaxs decision to close the account. So on the 
evidence available to me, on balance, I dont think Halifax is directly responsible for Mr A 
potentially missing out on the £3,000 maximum bonus he may have been entitled to through 
his Help to Buy ISA. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I have decided to uphold this complaint. Bank of Scotland plc trading 
as Halifax must pay Mr A £100 for the distress and inconvenience it caused him. This is in 
addition to the £94 it has already paid him.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman