DRN-3214219
The complaint
Mr J, Miss J and Mrs J complain that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV 
hasnt paid the costs of surgery under a corporate private medical insurance policy.
What happened
Miss J was covered under Mr and Mrs Js corporate private medical insurance policy, as a 
dependent. However, Miss Js cover was due to end on 1 April 2020, as she was no longer 
in full-time education.
On 3 March 2020, CIGNA pre-authorised the cost of Miss J undergoing surgery, which was 
scheduled to take place on 31 March 2020. 
However, on 23 March 2020, national lockdown was imposed by the UK government as a 
result of Covid-19. Due to the large numbers of patients suffering from Covid-19, private 
medical facilities and consultants were diverted to provide support to the NHS. This meant 
that on 30 March 2020, the day before Miss Js surgery was due to happen, the operation 
was cancelled. 
Miss J called CIGNA to ask whether, given it had already pre-authorised the surgery, it 
would be prepared to cover it at a later date, despite the fact that her cover was ending on 1 
April 2020. CIGNAs call handler explained that once cover had ended, it could no longer 
cover any treatment costs, even if it had pre-authorised them. It offered to send Miss J a 
quote for a personal continuation policy, which would cover her surgery at a later date. 
Subsequently, Miss Js surgery was rescheduled for June 2020. So Miss J got in touch with 
CIGNA to take up the option of continuation cover at that point. However, CIGNA said it 
could no longer offer a continuation policy, as more than 30 days had passed since Miss Js 
corporate cover had lapsed.
Mrs J met the cost of Miss Js surgery. But given the exceptional circumstances surrounding 
Covid-19. Mr J, Miss J and Mrs J were unhappy with CIGNAs decision not to cover the 
costs of the surgery and to decline to backdate a continuation policy. So they asked us to 
look into a complaint about CIGNAs decisions.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He considered that the policy 
terms made it clear that even if treatment had been pre-authorised, CIGNA would no longer 
cover treatment costs once a policy had lapsed. He was satisfied that CIGNA had offered 
Miss J the chance to take out a continuation policy, which she hadnt taken up within the 30 
day period set out in the policy terms. So he felt itd been fair for CIGNA not to pay Miss Js 
costs or to allow her to backdate cover.
Mr J, Miss J and Mrs J disagreed. They felt CIGNA had carried on with business as usual, 
despite the pandemic and itd done nothing to assist them.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr J, Miss J and Mrs J, I think CIGNA has 
treated them fairly and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
When making my decision about what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint, Ive taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr J, Miss J and Mrs Js 
contract with CIGNA as well as other relevant considerations, such as the law and industry 
guidance.
It's clear that the circumstances which unfolded surrounding Covid-19 were exceptional and 
were outside of the control of insurers and policyholders. I dont doubt how upsetting it was 
for Miss J when her surgery was cancelled, especially at such short notice, but this was 
entirely outside of CIGNAs control. CIGNA doesnt own or operate the private facilities its 
members use and the requisitioning of insurer-approved private facilities for use by the NHS 
was something it wasnt able to influence.
Ive carefully considered the policy terms, which form the basis of Mr J, Miss J and Mrs Js 
contract with CIGNA. The policy terms include a section called When does my cover end? 
This includes the following:
Cover will end for a dependent:
If they're no longer your dependant. Cover will end on the next annual renewal date.
As Miss J was covered as a dependent, her cover under the policy ran until she left full-time 
education. The policy was due to renew on 1 April 2020 and as Miss J was no longer in full-
time education by that date, her last day of cover under the corporate policy was 31 March 
2020.
I appreciate that CIGNA had already pre-authorised the surgery Miss J had planned to 
undergo whilst it was still on-risk for claims she might make. And I can understand how 
frustrating and disappointing it mustve been when CIGNA told her that given the 
rescheduled surgery would take place after the date her cover would lapse; it was no longer 
prepared to cover the costs. However, I can see that the policy says:
Please note that even if treatment has been authorised, we wont be responsible for any 
costs if the plan ends or you leave the plan before treatment has taken place.
Accordingly, I think CIGNA has clearly set out that it wont cover the costs of treatment once 
cover has ended, even where pre-authorisation has been given. As Miss J wasnt able to 
undergo surgery before her corporate cover ended, I dont think CIGNA acted unfairly when 
it told her it could no longer cover the surgery costs. Ive taken into account here that theres 
been no suggestion that this operation formed part of a staged-surgery which had already 
begun and which CIGNA had already partly-met.
I wouldve expected CIGNA to tell Miss J about the option to take out continuation cover 
though, which is likely to have covered her pre-authorised surgery at the point it could be 
rescheduled. And having listened to a call between CIGNA and Miss J, its clear that it did so. So it was open to Miss J to take out personal continuation cover, in line with the policy 
terms, if she still wanted to be covered by CIGNA.
The contract terms say:
You must apply to us within 30 days of the date your cover endsif you wish to join a Cigna 
individual healthcare plan.
This means that had Miss J applied for a continuation policy within 30 days of her corporate 
cover ending, shed have likely been covered for the surgery at the point it was rescheduled. 
However, Miss J didnt get in touch with CIGNA to take up this option within 30 days  by 30 
April 2020. The operation wasnt rescheduled until 28 May 2020, which was some time after 
the 30 day deadline. And Miss J didnt ask for continuation cover to be put in place until after 
that time. While I appreciate she was prepared to pay to backdate the premiums to ensure 
continuous cover, I think CIGNA was entitled to act in line with its policy terms. And so I dont 
find that CIGNA acted unfairly when it decided it couldnt offer continuation cover in June 
2020.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr J, Miss J and Mrs Js position, as I appreciate theyve 
incurred substantial surgery costs, I dont think that CIGNA treated them unfairly.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J, Miss J and 
Mrs J to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman