DRN-4290964
The complaint
Ms L and Mr T complain that Nationwide Building Society (who Ill call Nationwide) failed to 
explain the balance that was left to pay on a loan theyd taken out with them. They also say 
that Nationwide provided poor customer service when dealing with their complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Ms L and Mr T, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive listened to the calls and considered Nationwides response and I think they did 
adequately explain why there was a difference between the online balance and the 
settlement figure Ms L and Mr T had been given. Their agent explained that if they wanted to 
pay off the loan Nationwide would add interest that had accrued since the last direct debit 
was taken. The total amount payable if the loan ran its term had already been explained on 
the front page of the fixed sum loan agreement Ms L and Mr T had with Nationwide. I 
understand Ms L and Mr Ts concern that Nationwide didnt explain the difference between 
paying the settlement figure and letting the loan run its term. It would clearly have been 
better if theyd been able to do that on the call with Mr T, but I cant say they didnt provide 
the information. They responded and provided a full break down of interest and payments 
made and Ms L and Mr T would, therefore, have been able to calculate the difference.
Ms L and Mr T are also unhappy about Nationwides handling of their complaint. 
Nationwides notes suggest the calls with their agents that gave rise to Ms L and Mr Ts 
complaint were on 5 April 2023. The Financial Conduct Authority expect businesses to 
provide a final response within eight weeks of receiving a complaint and I can see 
Nationwide complied with those timescales. 
So, I dont think Nationwide have been unreasonable here and Im not, therefore, asking 
them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman