DRN-1656957
The complaint
Mr Q complains that following the settlement of his account, Erudio Student Loans Limited 
wrote to him about a missed direct debit and stated that he had an account balance of £506.
What happened
Mr Q took out 3 student loans in 1997,1998 and 1999 which he was repaying by direct debit. 
In April 2019, Erudio wrote to him and offered him the opportunity to settle the loan account 
for £4,104.49, representing a saving of £506.49.
Mr Q settled his account on 17 April 2019. Following this he received a letter from Erudio 
advising him that his direct debit had been missed. Mr Q contacted Erudio who said the 
letter had been sent in error, that Mr Qs direct debit had been cancelled and that it would no 
longer be pursuing the remaining balance.
Mr Q raised concerns. He felt the letter regarding the missed direct debit constituted 
harassment and that the most recent letter hed received referring to a balance was 
fraudulent. Mr Q said hed settled his account and didnt owe a balance. He asked Erudio to 
destroy all the data it held on him and pay compensation. 
In response, Erudio said the letter referred to a balance of £506 was because, following any 
reduced settlement payment, the remaining balance still reflects on the system for record 
keeping purposes. Erudio said this wouldnt impact Mr Qs credit file, nor would he be 
pursued for the balance. Erudio apologised to Mr Q for not making this clear in previous 
correspondence. It said its records werent fraudulent or incorrect but it understood why Mr 
Q thought this and upheld his complaint. It said it would reduce his account balance to zero 
and offered to pay £100 compensation for any distress caused. 
In relation to Mr Qs request that his data was destroyed, Erudio said it was permitted to hold 
data for 6 years once an account had been closed. It said it wouldnt destroy the data but 
that a copy of all information it held about Mr Q had been issued to him in response to his 
SAR but had been returned by Royal Mail as it hadnt been signed for. 
Mr Q remained unhappy and complained to this service. He says he didnt agree to settle the 
account on the basis that a balance would remain outstanding. He also feels that Erudio 
hasnt complied with his SAR.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that when Mr Q accepted the reduced 
settlement offer, this amounted to a partial settlement of the account. She agreed that the 
missed direct debit letter had ben sent in error but didnt think this warranted further 
compensation than already offered. The investigator explained that this service is unbale to 
require Erudio to destroy data because a business is allowed to hold data for 6 years after 
an account has been closed.
Mr Q didnt agree. He said he had settled the account in full, not partially. He said he hadnt 
received his data in response to his SAR and he wanted it by email. He felt that Erudio was 
holding false information about him and suggested that this might be the reasons he was 
having trouble getting services from third parties. He said he would like the information 
corrected if it could be destroyed or deleted.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr Q feels strongly about this. Ive looked at the settlement letter that 
Erudio sent to him. It says;
Wed like to offer you the opportunity to partially settle your loan account balances now for a 
single payment of £4,104.49. A saving of £506.49.
Further on in the letter it says that the remain £506.49 will be written off and the loan will be 
closed, and liability resolved.
Theres no dispute that Mr Q settled his loan. When Erudio responded to Mr Qs complaint, it 
sad that although his loan was closed when accepting a reduced offer to settle the remaining 
balance remains on the account but wont be pursued.
I think the letters from Erudio have caused confusion. Erudios response to Mr Qs complaint  
is inconsistent with what the settlement offer letter said. I dont think Erudio acted fairly in 
leading Mr Q to believe that the balance would be written off, and subsequently advising him 
that the balance would remain on the account.
Erudio has confirmed that it has reduced the balance on Mr Qs account to zero. This puts 
Mr Q in the position he believed he would be in. I think Erudio has acted fairly in doing this 
and I dont think its necessary for me to ask it to do anything further in terms of correcting 
information, on the basis that the balance now says zero and not £506.
Erudio has acknowledged that the missed direct debit letter was sent in error. I understand 
that Mr Q would have found it distressing to receive such a letter having settled his account. 
However, Im not persuaded that Erudio intended to harass Mr Q, or that the letter 
constitutes harassment. I think Erudio acted fairly in acknowledging the error and offering 
compensation. I wont be asking it to do anything further about this.
In relation to the SAR, and based on the information Ive seen, Erudio sent the information it 
holds to Mr Q twice and on both occasions,  it was returned as it hadnt been signed for. I 
appreciate that Mr Q has said that the information wasnt sent to his address. I havent seen 
anything to suggest that Erudio sent the information to the wrong address. Taking everything 
into account, I dont think Erudio has failed to respond to the SAR. If Mr Q wants the 
information by email, and if he can provide a secure email address to Erudio, I think Erudio 
should provide it by this method.
Mr Q has expressed concern that Erudio is holding fraudulent information about him. Its not 
clear what Mr Q is referring to when he says this but I think he may be referring to his 
account balance. As Ive already said, this has been reduced to zero, which I think is the 
correct balance. I havent seen any other evidence that Erudio has made false claims about 
Mr Q.
Mr Q has said that hes experienced difficulty obtaining services from third parties. He hasnt 
provided any further information about this so Im unable to comment. That said, I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Erudio have recorded anything on Mr Qs credit file which 
would negatively impact him.Taking all the circumstances of this complaint into account, and notwithstanding that Erudio 
provided misleading information when it wrote to Mr Q and sent a missed direct debit letter in 
error, I think Erudio has done enough to resolve the complaint and has acted fairly and 
reasonably in doing so. So I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman