DRN-2640912
The complaint
C is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC allowed a third party to transfer funds out of its 
bank account.
What happened
In July 2020, £14,349 was transferred out of Cs business current account. The director of C 
made a complaint to Barclays about this and said the transaction was the result of fraud. The 
transaction was made by a known third party, A.
Barclays looked into the complaint and established that A had transferred money from this 
account before, in 2018. Its records showed that in 2018 Cs director was told that as A was 
listed as an officer on Companies House, this is why they were also on the business current 
account. It said theyd been on there since 2013, the same as the director. And that he 
would need to have them removed from Companies House and then contact Barclays when 
this was done, so they were also removed from the current account. Barclays said it had no 
record of the director contacting it again after this date, so that was why A was still on the 
current account and so was able to make the transfer.
In November 2020, A returned the money to Cs account. However C still wanted 
compensation from Barclays for how it had handled this situation.
Barclays awarded C £200 for the time it took to look into the complaint. But it didnt agree it 
had done anything wrong in relation to the account, as it said it had never received 
confirmation that A had been removed from the business, so should be removed from this 
account too.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that without any evidence C had 
completed the steps required to remove A, she couldnt say Barclays was wrong to leave 
them on the account. And this meant they could make the online transfer. C asked for an 
ombudsmans decision and said that Barclays had added A to the account without its 
agreement. It said it would submit further information, but despite an extended deadline we 
received nothing further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute that until 2018, A was an officer for C on Companies House. Barclays has 
shown us its internal system that shows A was still listed on the account at the time of the 
2020 transaction. And I can see in the terms and conditions for this account that anyone 
named on the account can give instructions in relation to it. So I accept that Barclays allowed 
A to carry out the transaction due to this.
Cs director says he removed A in 2018 and had in fact never given them authority for this 
account. Hes suggested they were added due to As personal relationship with a staff 
member at Barclays in 2017. However Barclays has confirmed A was added to the account 
in 2013. And from the information we hold this is when C was incorporated. If Cs director 
now wants to make a complaint about what happened when the account opened he will 
need to address this separately with Barclays.
As Im satisfied A was an officer on the account at the time of the transaction, its then left to 
decide whether they shouldve been  or if they shouldve been removed in 2018. 
Cs director has confirmed he contacted Barclays in 2018, around a week after having As 
position on Companies House amended. Hes provided us with an email chain where he 
requests A be removed from C on Companies House and I can see As status was amended 
to resigned, with the termination of their appointment dated 15 January 2018. So its clear 
Cs director did take note of the instructions Barclays gave and begin to act on them. 
However, theres no evidence on Barclays systems he did then finalise this process, by 
calling it and confirming the removal of A, as the letter instructs.
Barclays has provided its internal records for Cs account, including call records. And theres 
no record of any calls in January 2018, when C says he called in to remove A. I accept C 
recalls calling to have A removed and it is possible an error on the system meant no call was 
recorded and this request wasnt actioned. But as C has no evidence of the call, this means I 
dont have anything to show it requested A be removed. Cs director didnt receive any follow 
up confirmation of As removal following the call he recalls, such as a letter or email. And 
didnt contact Barclays about this matter again until 2020, despite this.
Based on the evidence I hold; I cant safely say Barclays has made a mistake here. I dont 
have any evidence that C did follow up with Barclays and remove A. And due to this, A 
remained on the account and was able to carry out the transaction in 2020. As A has 
returned the money to C this isnt an issue anymore. And Im not directing Barclays to award 
any compensation in this case. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity, so Im not able 
to comment on the compensation awarded for the time it took to investigate this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 June 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman