DRN-3419164
Complaint
Mr M has complained about a loan Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) 
provided to him. He says either Likely Loans didnt do the appropriate checks or disregarded 
them.
Background
Likely Loans provided Mr M with a loan for £2,000.00 in June 2019. This loan was due to be 
repaid in 24 monthly instalments of £158.50 but was settled early in November 2020. One of 
our adjudicators reviewed what Mr M and Likely Loans had told us. She didnt recommend 
the complaint be upheld. Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ms complaint.
Likely Loans needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is that it needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr M could afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we 
think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of the information it 
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Likely Loans says it agreed to Mr Ms application after he provided details of his monthly 
income and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Mr M could to 
comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. On the other hand, Mr M has said 
he was under a tremendous amount of financial pressure with other debts and any change in 
circumstances would have made the loan unaffordable.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr M and Likely Loans have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that Mr M seems to be basing a lot of his argument on his credit score. But this is only 
one factor in any assessment of affordability and it doesnt automatically follow that a low 
score means a lender shouldnt lend, or that a high credit score means that it is fair to do so. 
What is more important is the factors behind the score and what all the information gathered 
demonstrates about a prospective borrowers ability to repay. 
Likely Loans has provided a high-level summary of the results of its credit searches. Likely 
Loans searches appear to show that Mr M had had previous difficulties repaying credit but 
that his commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. Crucially, according to the 
credit searches, Mr Ms debt total at the time of the applications was reasonable in 
comparison to his income and they appeared to be relatively well managed. I think its also 
worth noting that Likely Loans could only base its decision to lend on Mr Ms actual 
circumstances at the time and not on any undeclared or unforeseen change in Mr Ms 
circumstance which may or may not have occurred in the future.
I accept that Mr Ms actual circumstances may not have been fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Likely Loans obtained. Equally I accept it is also 
possible that if Likely Loans had gone into the depth of checks Mr M appears to be saying it 
should have  such as obtaining bank statements in the same way a mortgage provider 
would  it might have reached a different decision (although Mr M hasnt really provided 
anything at all to substantiate this). 
But the key here is that Likely Loans wasnt providing Mr M with a mortgage. It was providing 
a loan for a relatively small sum  especially when compared to Mr Ms income to be repaid 
over a relatively short-term. Its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in 
circumstances where a lender did something wrong. Given the circumstances of the lending 
here, and the lack of obvious inconsistencies in terms of Mr Ms declarations against the 
other information gathered, I dont think that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
have extended into the level of checks Mr M is suggesting. As this is the case, I dont think 
that Likely Loans did anything wrong when deciding to lend to Mr M - it carried out 
proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which suggested the 
repayments were affordable. 
So overall I dont think that Likely Loans treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably when 
providing him with his loan. And Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. I appreciate this will be 
very disappointing for Mr M. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that 
hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman