DRN-4457206
The complaint
Miss Q is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund the money she lost after she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all here. 
But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as follows.
In February 2023, Miss Q was looking to buy tickets for a concert. She found some tickets 
on a well-known social media platform. Shes said she could see the seller was active on the 
platform, the tickets were being sold at face value and the seller appeared to have sold 
tickets to other events.
Believing everything to be genuine, on 3 February 2023, Miss Q went ahead and made a 
payment for £240 to the bank details provided by the seller. But after making the payment, 
she became concerned when she was blocked by the seller and didnt receive the tickets. 
Unknown to her at the time she had been communicating with a fraudster and had sent her 
money to an account the fraudster controlled.
Miss Q raised the matter with Monzo. It has committed to follow the Lending Standards 
Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code (although it isnt a signatory) which 
requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of Authorised Push 
Payment (APP) scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. Monzo says 
one or more of those exceptions applies in this case.
Monzo issued its final response to Miss Q on 5 April 2023, not upholding her complaint. In 
summary it said it had given a warning and it didnt think Miss Q had taken reasonable steps 
to check who she was paying. In recognition of the amount of time it had taken Monzos 
fraud team to review Miss Qs complaint, it credited her account with £50 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Monzo tried to recover the money Miss Q lost from the beneficiary bank (the bank 
to which the money was sent), but unfortunately no funds remained.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss Q then brought her complaint to this service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld and that 
Monzo should refund Miss Q the money she lost, along with interest. In summary, our 
Investigator didnt think Monzo had established that it shouldnt reimburse Miss Q on the 
basis that she didnt have a reasonable basis for believing she was making a legitimate 
payment.
Monzo didnt agree with our Investigators view. As agreement couldnt be reached, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded Miss Q the money 
she lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply 
in the circumstances of this case.
- In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Miss Q 
lost.
- The money was taken from Miss Qs current account. It is not clear how Miss Q 
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done, so 
Monzo should also pay interest on the money it should have refunded at 8% simple 
per year, from the date Monzo decided not to refund Miss Q under the CRM Code to 
the date of payment.
Did Miss Q have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Ive carefully considered Monzos representations about whether Miss Q had a reasonable 
basis for believing the purchase was genuine. Weighing everything up, I dont think it would 
have been evident to Miss Q that there was a risk with this purchase, I say that because;
- Miss Q saw the item she was interested in on a well-known social media platform. 
She engaged with the seller through a number of messages. From reviewing these 
messages, I dont consider the seller was applying any pressure (which can often be 
the indicator of a scam).
- The tickets Miss Q was being offered were being sold at face value. So I dont think 
its reasonable to argue that they were being sold at a price that could be considered 
as too good to be true.
- It is not unusual to purchase items online without seeing them. And in the 
circumstances of this case, Miss Q had previously received purchased tickets 
successfully through this platform and by making a bank transfer. I can understand 
why she moved passed this without being overly concerned.
- The fraudster used what look like an official order confirmation from a well-known 
ticketing service provider, which was addressed to a name which corroborated with 
the name on the social media platform. So I think it reasonable that this would have 
given Miss Q further assurances that the person she was dealing with legitimately 
had tickets to sell.
- Miss Q took the time to check the sellers profile and it seemed they were active on 
the platform and sold tickets to other events, which made Miss Q believe they were 
legitimate.
Miss Q had not been scammed before, and had used this method for buying tickets in the 
past, without any problems. She is not an expert in all matters relating to frauds and scams, 
nor about how they work or can play out. The fact that the bank, as a professional in these 
matters, can think of additional things Miss Q could have done does not mean that she did 
not do enough. People dont want or expect to be scammed and I think overall Miss Q took 
reasonable, appropriate, and proportionate steps to try and protect herself. I dont consider 
she had any reason to think the seller would not keep to their side of that bargain.For completeness, I also dont think the low friction warning Monzo presented Miss Q with 
would be considered as effective under the CRM Code, as it wasnt specific to the particular 
scam Miss Q fell victim to. However having said that, considering the relatively low value of 
the payment Miss Q was making (and therefore a lesser indication that Miss Q may be a risk 
of fraud), I dont consider there was a requirement on Monzos part for an effective warning 
to be provided.
All things considered, I think it fair and reasonable that Miss Q thought she was dealing with 
a legitimate seller for a legitimate item when making the payment. Im satisfied Miss Q took 
proportionate steps to try and mitigate any risk and that it wasnt unreasonable for her to 
proceed in making the payment she did. Overall and on balance, Im not persuaded that 
Monzo has shown that Miss Q lacked a reasonable basis of belief for making the payment, 
or that she ignored an effective warning.
Putting things right
For the reasons outlined above, Monzo Bank Ltd should now;
- Refund Miss Q the £240 she lost as a result of this scam.
- Pay 8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date Monzo 
Bank Ltd originally declined Miss Qs claim until the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Monzo Bank Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Q to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman