DRN-2734547
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund a £4,129.77 payment made from his 
account which he says he didnt make.
What happened
Mr S says he was called by someone claiming to be from the FCA. He was told they had 
recovered money from an investment company hed lost money with previously and so were 
looking to return this to him. Mr S says he allowed the caller to take over his computer and 
access his online banking. But, when the caller was about to transfer the money back to his 
account, Mr S says they clicked buy rather than deposit and so a payment of £4,129.77 
was made out of Mr Ss account.
HSBC called Mr S later that day and he told it he hadnt made the payment and that it was 
the result of a scam. HSBC investigated but said it wouldnt treat the payment as fraud as 
Mr S had willingly given the caller his card details, so it didnt agree to refund the payment. 
Mr S wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint but felt it was likely Mr S had authorised the 
payment and so didnt recommend that HSBC refund it. Mr S disagreed, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, HSBC can hold Mr S liable for disputed payments from his account if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made the payments himself or told 
someone else they could make them.
Mr S says he didnt make the payment himself and that it was the person who called him 
who actually made the payment. But Mr S has accepted that he did give the caller his card 
details and access to his online banking. So while I appreciate he says he only did this 
because he was told he would be receiving money, he did give the caller his card details. 
And HSBCs evidence shows Mr Ss card details were entered to make the payment. So Im 
satisfied his genuine card was used to make the payment.
The relevant regulations say that this, on its own, isnt enough to allow HSBC to hold Mr S 
liable for the payment. So I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more 
likely than not that Mr S consented to the payment being made.
Ive thought very carefully about this and I think its a finely balanced matter in this case. But 
where the evidence available is unclear or inconclusive, I must make my decision on what I 
think is most likely to have happened, based on the evidence I do have.
Mr S says he allowed the caller to remotely take over his computer, but that he could still see 
what the caller was doing on screen.
The payment was made to an online company that sells cryptocurrency. The cryptocurrency 
company has sent screenshots of what the process for making a payment would have 
looked like, and these screenshots show that it would have been clear throughout the 
process that the payment was for the purchase of cryptocurrency. So I dont think its likely 
that Mr S could have thought that the payment would go into his account, or that the caller 
could have clicked buy rather than deposit at the last moment, as Mr S has said.
Making a payment to the cryptocurrency company also required an account to be set up 
before the payment could be made. The cryptocurrency company has said an account in 
Mr Ss name was set up on the same day as the payment. And its sent a copy of the photo 
ID used to verify the account, which matches Mr Ss details.
Mr S says he didnt see the caller visit the cryptocurrencys website or set up an account 
while he was on the call. But, as Mr S says he could see what the caller was doing on 
screen, I dont think the caller would have been able to do this without Mr S seeing. Mr S 
also said there was a photo of his ID on his computer, but that the caller didnt ask for it or 
see it during the call. But, if this is the case, I cant see how the account would have been set 
up or the cryptocurrency company would have got a copy of Mr Ss photo ID.
Based on this evidence, Im not satisfied the payment was made in the way Mr S has 
described. And, in the absence of any other plausible explanation, I think its more likely than 
not that Mr S either made the payment himself or consented to it being made. So I dont 
think HSBC should have to refund the payment to him.
It follows that I dont need to consider whether the payment was out of character or unusual 
for Mr S, or whether HSBC should have identified that he was potentially at risk of fraud as a 
result of it, as I think Mr S would have confirmed he had consented to the payment if HSBC 
had carried out further checks.
Mr S has asked whether HSBC should have stopped the payment from leaving his account, 
as he said it was the result of a scam while the payment was still pending. But a debit card is 
a guaranteed form of payment, so HSBC couldnt cancel the payment once it had been 
made, even though it was still pending.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2021. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman