DRN-3497401
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as B, complains about the actions of Lloyds Bank UK PLC 
when the company used funds from a property sale to repay some of its borrowing.
What happened
B had fixed rate and variable rate loans from Lloyds. In 2020, the company sold part of a 
property and used the proceeds to reduce its borrowing. Lloyds consented to release the 
charge on the property on condition that some of the funds were put into a separate account. 
The main parts of Bs complaint are:
Lloyds failed to use the funds in the separate account to make loan repayments, 
which B says had been agreed
The bank should have advised B to repay the fixed rate loan, rather than the variable 
rate loan, because that would have made more financial sense
The property valuation fee shouldnt have been charged to B
B also said the bank wrongly left the variable rate loan account showing a balance after the 
debt was fully repaid.
Our investigator looked at all the available evidence and concluded that Lloyds didnt need to 
do anything further. He gave the following reasons, in summary:
Evidence from emails, a call recording and the deposit agreement showed that 
Lloyds clearly stated that it required three years worth of loan repayments to be 
placed into a separate account, which would be controlled and operated by the bank 
and not used for monthly loan repayments.
Lloyds gave B a quote for the break cost that would be incurred for repaying the fixed 
rate loan. When she saw the quote, Bs director said the company would rather repay 
the variable rate loan, as it wouldnt involve a break cost. The investigator thought the 
bank had given clear information about the repayment of the fixed rate loan, enabling 
B to make an informed decision about which loan the company wanted to repay.
Under the terms and conditions of the fixed rate loan, the bank needed to be satisfied 
that alternative security was fully effective before releasing property. The investigator 
thought it was fair for Lloyds to ask for a valuation to ensure that suitable security 
remained. The bank provided four quotations for surveyors and told B in advance 
that the company would be liable for the costs.
After the complaint came to this service, Lloyds accepted that the variable rate loan balance 
was incorrectly showing some accrued interest from around the time of redemption. It 
agreed to rectify the problem and has since confirmed that the variable rate loan account 
has been closed with a zero balance. 
B didnt agree with the investigators findings. Its director said that during a phone call in 
December 2020, the bank clearly told her that the money lodged in the separate account 
would be used to pay back the loan. 
Bs director also said she had always accepted that Lloyds had told B that the company 
would have to pay for the valuation. But she said that the bank later agreed to look into the 
cost of it and told her not to worry about it.
Bs director also said she was concerned that the companys credit score has been ruined as 
a result of these events.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im sorry to tell Bs director that Ive come to the same conclusions as the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
Ive looked at the deposit agreement and the emails sent by the bank before the agreement 
was signed. Ive also listened to the available phone calls from December 2020. Im satisfied 
that Lloyds clearly explained to Bs director that it required three years worth of loan 
repayments to be placed into a separate account for security, which would remain there and 
not be used for monthly loan repayments. That condition was reflected in the terms of the 
deposit agreement. Ive seen no evidence of the bank saying that the money in the account 
would be used to make monthly loan repayments.
Bs director recalls being told in December 2020 that the separate account would be used for 
repayments. I dont doubt the sincerity of her recollection, but Ive seen no evidence of such 
a call, and the bank gave a different message consistently in all the communications that Ive 
seen and heard. I note that during a call on 4 December 2020, a Lloyds representative 
explained to Bs director that the money wont be touched  now, what that means is that 
the money will sit there untouched, until the business is in a better position and we can 
release those funds or whatever for you It just means we put it in an account that cant be 
touched, thats all it is. Bs director said in response Yeah, thats absolutely fine. The 
moneys going to be sat there. In summary, its my view that the bank made it clear to B that 
the funds would remain in the separate account and would not be used for monthly 
repayments.
In November 2020, Lloyds gave B a quote for the break cost for early repayment of the fixed 
rate loan. Following that, the company chose instead to repay the variable rate loan, 
preferring not to pay a break cost. Lloyds had no obligation to offer advice on which loan B 
should repay, and Im satisfied that the bank provided clear information so that the company 
could make its own choice.
I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably when it sought a valuation of the remaining property 
and required B to pay the valuation fee. Ive seen no evidence that the bank later agreed to 
waive the valuation fee.
Bs director is concerned that these events will impair the companys credit record. But, 
given my conclusions above, I cant reasonably say that Lloyds is responsible for Bs 
financial difficulties. I therefore cant require Lloyds to make a credit file amendment. Bs 
director has said she doesnt think the bank has reported any incorrect credit file information.I understand that Bs director will be disappointed by my decision, and I understand the 
depth of her feelings about these events. But, having looked at the evidence, I find that the 
bank did nothing wrong with regard to the separate account, the fixed loan repayment or the 
valuation fee, so I cant fairly or reasonably ask the bank to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Lloyds Bank PLC to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman