DRN-2632075
The complaint
Mr L complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy 
by Santander UK Plc (Santander), trading as Alliance & Leicester.
What happened
Mr L took out a mortgage with Santander in June 2006, but didnt take out PPI at that time. 
He said the PPI sale took place by phone in December 2008  some two and a half years 
later - and that he was advised to take the cover (indeed he said he was pressured into 
taking it and was made to feel it was compulsory). Santander agreed this was an advised 
sale, but said it couldnt confirm from its records whether the PPI was sold by phone or 
during a meeting. 
The PPI policy provided accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr L at a monthly 
cost of £34.14. The monthly benefit was £574.00, and if Mr L had made a successful claim, 
the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim (multiple claims were 
possible under the policy). 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr L disagreed, and asked that 
it be referred to an ombudsman for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
This isnt an easy case to decide. Santander couldnt provide a call script or call recording 
(although as the sale took place over 12 years ago this isnt entirely surprising  businesses 
are not required to keep records indefinitely). However, Santander did provide a copy of a 
computer record showing details of Mr Ls mortgage, along with key facts documents from 
his mortgage application, made in 2006. Santander also obtained and sent in the policy 
underwriters record of its contacts with Mr L, along with a copy of the welcome letter and 
PPI policy schedule issued just after the date of sale by the underwriter.
As Ive said, Santander said its records didnt show how the PPI was sold. But Mr L told us it 
was sold by phone, and Ive no reason to think that wasnt the case. Ive no information 
about what prompted the call, and Santander said the sale didnt coincide with any changes 
to Mr Ls mortgage. As Mr L said it was a cold-call it may have been part of a marketing 
exercise. 
However, Mr L told us that the sales call came from the underwriter rather than Santander, 
but I dont think this is correct. I say this because the welcome letter, although sent by the 
underwriter, refers to the policy being arranged through Santander. I can see that the 
underwriters record of its contacts with Mr L before he brought his complaint to us, show 
that there were a series of calls and letters on this point, and the underwriter confirmed to Mr 
L that it did not sell the policy. This record also lists the initial welcome letter to Mr L as A&L 
Staff Pipeline Welcome Letter (at the time of the sale the lender was Alliance & Leicester, 
which was a trading name of Santander), indicating the sale was initiated by Santander. The 
welcome letter and policy document show the name of the underwriter, and the underwriter 
has said that it dealt with the administration of policies on Santanders behalf. But the two 
companies are completely separate entities. 
From all this I think that it was Santander that sold the policy, and that Mr Ls details were 
then passed to the underwriter so that the policy documents could be issued. I think Mr L 
has probably associated the sale with the underwriter because its name is prominent on the 
policy documentation. 
Mr L said he felt pressured to take the PPI, and that it could affect his mortgage if he didnt 
take it. 
As I mentioned, Mr L took out his mortgage in 2006 without PPI, and whilst the documents 
that Santander sent us in relation to the mortgage application arent relevant to this sale, I 
note that the key facts document explicitly stated that Mr L wasnt obliged to take insurance 
out through the lender. 
Turning to the point of sale in 2008, Santander said its sales process was such that Mr L 
should have been given a clear choice about the PPI. Mr Ls recollection is, as I noted 
above, quite different. In the absence of a call script or call recording I cant know exactly 
what was said or how the PPI was (or should have been) presented. So Ive also considered 
what we know about other, similar, sales by Santander. But I havent seen particular 
problems with pressure being exerted on consumers to take PPI. Ive also kept in mind that 
Santander said it advised Mr L to take the PPI, so its possible that Mr L has remembered 
the suggestion that he should have the cover as being a requirement that he must have it  
Im conscious the sale took place over 12 years ago and memories can fade with time. I also 
note that the welcome letter sent out just after the sale clearly referred to a cooling off 
period. 
Ive carefully considered all Mr L said about the sale. But on balance, I dont think I can fairly 
say its most likely that Mr L was pressured into taking the PPI and not given a choice about 
it, which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply 
dont have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
Ive also looked at the other aspects of the sale, and as Santander advised Mr L to take the 
PPI, it shouldve made sure it was suitable for him. I think it was. 
As the sale took place by phone, I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI - especially 
the things not covered. But I cant see that Mr L wouldve been affected by any of these. Its 
not clear how the cost of the PPI was explained to Mr L, but I dont think its likely that he 
would have gone ahead with the PPI without some idea of the amount hed need to pay. And 
Ive no evidence to suggest the premium was unaffordable for him. 
Mr L told us that he wouldve been entitled to sick pay from his employer of 12 months pay. 
He didnt say whether that would all have been at his full pay rate - but I think that wouldve 
been unlikely based on his employment and length of service. He also said he had savings 
equivalent to about three months pay, and that his parents couldve helped out if necessary. 
But their circumstances couldve changed, so I dont think their help couldve been 
guaranteed. Overall I think Mr L could have found it difficult to make the mortgage payments if hed been off sick from work for any length of time, or had lost his job. I also think Mr L 
could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment that was secured on his 
home. So I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit. 
I should say at this point that Mr L has referred to other complaints which he said have been 
upheld in similar circumstances. However, each complaint is considered on its own merits 
and my decision here is based on the evidence and information provided by the parties to 
this complaint.
In summary, although I cant know whether Santander clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Mr L would still have bought the policy if it had. It couldve provided useful 
protection if he couldnt work. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L, as I can see he feels strongly 
about this, but my conclusion is that on the evidence I have, I cant fairly say the PPI was 
mis-sold.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman