DRN-3281425
The complaint
Mr O complains about Public Loss Adjusting Group Ltds (PLA) handling of a landslip claim 
made under his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2020 a landslip damaged the extension at the rear of Mr Os house. He made a 
claim to his insurance company and appointed PLA to handle the claim for him. Over the 
following months, a few enquiries were made, with PLA providing information to Mr Os 
insurers and their appointed loss adjuster. 
In November 2020, Mr O complained about PLAs handling of the claim. He said hed 
received conflicting information in that he was told the details hed given about the condition 
of the house were too cursory, but then an edited version passed on to the insurer. Mr O 
also didnt feel that the way the settlement proposed by his insurer was handled 
appropriately by PLA. Mr Os insurer had suggested there needed to be three independent 
assessments on the diminution of value following the landslip. Mr O says PLA said the 
insurer should settle on the basis of their reserve. Mr O says PLA unnecessarily delayed the 
resolution of the claim.
Mr O was also unhappy with PLAs handling of the site visit arranged by his insurer. He 
wasnt sure the contractor attending had the relevant qualifications, based on the information 
given to him by PLA. Mr O says PLA insisted he allow the insurers contractor access to his 
property, or PLA would abandon his claim. 
PLA responded to Mr Os complaint in December 2020. They said they believed those 
involved in handling the claim had taken appropriate steps to move towards a resolution. 
While PLA said there were occasions when communications could have been clearer, they 
felt those involved were correct in saying why their view was that Mr O needed to allow a site 
visit. 
In early 2021, Mr O negotiated a settlement directly with his insurance company.  PLA asked 
Mr O to disclose the terms of the settlement, in order to calculate an invoice for the work it 
carried out. Mr O said as PLA didnt progress the claim to a settlement, he didnt think he 
should have to pay the entire fee. 
Mr O remained unhappy with PLAs handling of the claim and referred his complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think PLA had acted 
unreasonably. As Mr O didnt agree, this matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive only provided a summary of whats happened during the claim. This reflects the informal 
nature of this service. While Ive considered everything, my decision focuses on those issues 
in my view are key to reaching a decision I consider fair and reasonable. While I know Mr O 
would like us to make a direction that requires PLA to conduct their business in line with the 
regulators rules I wont do so. My role is to decide what I consider fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, not too stand in the place of the regulator. 
Ill turn first to the issue of the fees. Having considered what both sides have said, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator in this respect. Im not going to make a 
finding on what a fair fee would be. This is because, at the time the complaint was referred 
to us, PLAs fees hadnt been finalised, as Mr O hadnt confirmed the final settlement figure 
from his insurers. 
Mr O has said hes prepared to pay a portion of the fees. He says hes told PLA the details of 
the cash settlement. But from what I can see, while hes given a cash figure there were also 
other works that would also have been included in the settlement. I can see why PLA doesnt 
consider Mr O has given the true value of how the claim has been settled by the insurer.
PLA says it cant calculate the true fee it considers is owed until it knows the final settlement 
figure paid by Mr Os insurer. I cant compel Mr O to disclose the terms of his settlement with 
his insurer. But as Mr O hasnt done so, Im not prepared to rule on what is a fair figure for 
PLA to charge for their work on this claim. Our investigator has set out the steps both sides 
would need to take in order for this service to consider this part of the claim in more detail. I 
agree thats reasonable and I leave it to Mr O to decide if he wants to share the settlement 
figure paid by his insurer with PLA.
 
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Os complaint, and his view PLA delayed the settling of 
the claim. Mr O feels there was a delay of a month between March and April 2020. The 
insurers appeared to be considering whether to accept the claim, and this process took 
some time to resolve. 
From the point of claim being made until early September, PLA was in frequent contact with 
both Mr O and his insurers. But by early September 2020, the claim had been accepted. Ive 
reviewed the email correspondence between PLA and Mr O, and the emails PLA sent to Mr 
Os insurers. Im satisfied PLA acted on all correspondence in a reasonable timeframe. I 
havent seen any evidence of avoidable delays between PLA being appointed and early 
September.
From early September 2020, the focus turned to the inspection at Mr Os home. I can see 
PLA was frequently in contact with Mr O and his insurers or their representatives, trying to 
mediate the inspection. The insurer said a Diminution in Market Value would be considered, 
and three valuers should be instructed to provide a valuation in respect of the current value 
and the value of the property immediately prior to the damage. There isnt anything in this 
approach I consider to be unusual. 
But Ive carefully examined the email exchanges between PLA and Mr O  this was the 
preferred method of communication  and I havent seen anything which supports there 
were unnecessary and avoidable delays from September 2020. From what Ive seen, Mr O 
was unwilling to grant access to his home because he was concerned about the 
qualifications of the contractors appointed by his insurer. As PLA said in its emails, it isnt 
unusual for an insurer to require a site visit be carried out. Im not considering the actions of 
Mr Os insurer here. Im satisfied PLAs explanations and approaches to this part of the claim 
were reasonable, and in line with the steps towards resolution Id expect to see. So, it follows 
Im not making a finding about whether the insurer made suitable selections for those 
contractors appointed to carry out the site visit.
Ive seen from the email exchanges that it was difficult to appoint anyone to carry out the 
valuation until Mr O would give consent for the site visit to take place. Its clear from late September until late November there wasnt much progress on the claim, given the wider 
discussions about the valuations that needed to take place. I can see there were some 
delays during this timeframe, but both sides contributed to these. Mr O wanted the 
valuations to wait until he had received the outcome of his complaint against the insurer. 
PLA occasionally took some time to respond to emails. 
I acknowledge Mr O feels he was able to arrange the inspections during a much quicker 
timeframe. I can see why, in his view, this happened. However, while there were some 
emails PLA could have replied to sooner, I dont think this delay is, overall, material to the 
time taken for the claim to be resolved. While Im sorry my decision is likely to disappoint Mr 
O, for the reasons Ive given, I dont agree PLA has handled the claim badly for him.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Emma Hawkins
Ombudsman