DRN-3050453
The complaint
Mr T through a professional representative has complained that Bob Little & Co are 
responsible for unsuitable advice to transfer his British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS).
What happened
Mr T was a member of the BSPS. In May 2016 scheme trustees wrote to all members 
informing them of a public consultation and also that there was a possibility the scheme 
might move into the Pension Protection Fund (PPF).
Mr T met with Bob Little & Co on 19 July 2016 and a fact find was completed recording his 
personal circumstances. Meeting notes confirmed that Mr T was concerned about the BSPS 
and that it might fall into the PPF, and that for specialist advice he would be referred to 
another firm (which Ill call PM), with advice on the transferred funds being returned to Bob 
Little & Co if the transfer went ahead.
Advice was provided by the other firm on 28 August 2016. The advice was to transfer the 
BSPS pension into a personal pension. Mr Ts attitude to risk was recorded as moderately 
cautious. The suitability letter confirmed that Bob Little & Co would provide ongoing advice at 
a charge of 0.75% per year.
Separately, Bob Little & Co had an introducer agreement with PM. The agreement stated 
that 35% of any fee from advice would be paid back to Bob Little & Co.
Mr T accepted the advice and his pension was transferred. Bob Little & Co provided ongoing 
advice about the suitability of the personal pension in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Mr T 
complained to Bob Little & Co in September 2020. PM then went into administration in 2020. 
Bob Little & Co says it wasnt responsible for the advice, it merely acted as an introducer and 
PM is wholly responsible for the advice given to Mr T.
Our investigator looked into matters but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said 
that Bob Little & Co werent responsible for the advice.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Jurisdiction
Bob Little & Co believe that this case isnt within our jurisdiction as the act of introducing isnt 
a regulated activity. However, for the reasons explained below we can look into this 
complaint.
Our jurisdiction to consider complaints is set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. There are a number of factors that determine whether or 
not we can consider a complaint, ranging from whether the complainant is eligible to whether 
the activity complained about is something we can investigate. 
It isnt in dispute that Mr T is a consumer as per DISP 2.7.3(1). However, in order for him to 
be an eligible complainant, he must also have a complaint which arises from matters 
relevant to a specific relationship with the respondent business  Bob Little & Co.
DISP 2.7.6 lists the relevant relationships; DISP 2.7.6(2) says that if Mr T is (or was) a 
potential customer of Bob Little & Co, then he would meet that requirement. And Im satisfied 
Mr T was a potential customer of Bob Little & Co when he enquired about transferring his 
BSPS benefits. However, DISP 2.3.1 states that we can only consider complaints relating to 
certain specified activities, including regulated activities, or any ancillary activities, including 
advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them. Ancillary activity is defined in the 
FCA Handbook as: An activity which is not a regulated activity but which is: a) carried on in 
connection with a regulated activity; or b) held out as being for the purposes of a regulated 
activity. In relation to ancillary activities, the Handbook definition quoted above clearly allows 
that the ancillary link may exist both forwards and backwards in time. A firm may carry on 
ancillary activities in connection with regulated activities it intends to carry on in future as 
well as regulated activities it is in the process of carrying on or has already carried on.
When Mr T was referred to PM, he was already a customer of Bob Little & Co. But Bob Little 
& Co didnt have permission to advise on the transfer of defined-benefit pension schemes. 
For this reason, it introduced Mr T to PM. Introducing is not a regulated activity where the 
introduction is made to an authorised firm with a view to advice or the exercise of discretion 
in relation to investments. This type of introduction is specifically excluded by Article 33 of 
the Regulated Activities Order. However, the ongoing advice provided after the transfer was 
a regulated activity, although as I understand no fault in that advice is alleged nor any loss 
attributed to such a fault  the complaint is entirely about the events prior to the transfer 
advice and that advice itself. 
It isnt in dispute that Bob Little & Co carried on a regulated activity when it started giving Mr 
T ongoing advice and servicing of his pension. So, the key issue here is whether the earlier 
introduction to PM can be considered as ancillary to the later ongoing advice. PM advised Mr 
T to transfer out of the BSPS and servicing was then transferred to Bob Little & Co. And Im 
satisfied that this was always the intention of the arrangement.
So, Im satisfied there is a clear connection between the introduction, transfer advice, and 
ongoing advice, and that the first link in that chain would therefore be ancillary to the third. 
So, I think Bob Little & Cos prior activities were ancillary to its later provision of ongoing 
advice. For this reason, I think the complaint is within our jurisdiction regardless of whether 
or not Bob Little & Co went beyond its role of introducing into arranging or advising on the 
pension. DISP 2.3.1 states that we can consider a complaint about acts or omissions that 
are ancillary activities carried on in connection with a regulated activity. Im satisfied that 
there is a regulated activity to which the introduction can be connected. 
My Findings
Mr Ts representatives say Bob Little & Co should be jointly liable for the losses hes suffered 
with PM. They say there was a joint venture between the firms. And that Bob Little & Co 
failed to act in Mr Ts best interest and treated him unfairly by putting him in touch with a firm 
that it shouldve known would provide advice to transfer out of BSPS. Which it ought to have 
known would likely be unsuitable. 
I appreciate that Mr T is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme, however the firm responsible for this advice is PM. They had the relevant permissions and 
provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. They did a transfer 
analysis and issued a suitability report to Mr T. 
From what Ive seen all communications regarding the transfer happened between PM and 
Mr T once Bob Little had referred him.
The evidence shows there was an introducer relationship between the parties. However, this 
isnt evidence in my view that Bob Little & Co gave Mr T advice. It was ultimately PMs 
obligation to provide Mr T with independent and suitable advice. And if it wasnt suitable for 
Mr T to transfer, PM should have clearly told him so and provided reasons why. If they had 
done so, I dont think Bob Little & Cos involvement wouldve made any difference. So I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to hold it jointly responsible for the advice to transfer.
In conclusion, Bob Little & Co didnt give Mr T advice, the responsibility for this and any 
losses incurred is PMs. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman