DRN-3851746
The complaint
Miss W complains about Domestic and General Insurance PLC (D&G) who continued to 
take premiums from her account, after her gadget insurance policy had been cancelled. 
What happened
Miss W held a few gadget insurance policies with D&G. Following a dispute regarding a 
repair of her TV, D&G initially cancelled Miss Ws policies. Miss W asked D&G not to cancel 
the policies, until her premiums had been refunded. 
D&G then reissued the policies. But later refunded £37.10, which was the cost of all 
premiums that had been paid. D&G said that no further premiums were taken from Miss Ws 
account from 23 June 2022 and all the plans were cancelled on 7 July 2022.  
Miss W believes that D&G continued to take premiums from her account and fraudulently 
opened other plans. So, she referred her complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators, considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. Her 
view was that D&G had acted appropriately, as it had restarted the policies at Miss Ws 
request, which she had requested D&G do in a phone call (the recording of which our 
investigator had listened to). She also concluded that the there was no fraud and Miss W 
had suffered no financial loss. So, she said that there nothing further she could reasonably 
ask D&G to do to resolve the complaint.  
D&G accepted the view. Miss W did not. She said that D&G had committed fraud on her and 
had opened policies and taken premiums from her account, without her permission.  So, she 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Miss W, but I hope my 
findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
The main issue of this complaint is that Miss W believes that D&G has taken premiums from 
her account and fraudulently opened policies, without her permission. So, Ive had a look at 
this, in light of the evidence that both parties have presented. 
I have listened to call recordings, in particular a call recording between the parties, in which 
Miss W initially requests that D&G cancel her policy. She later requests that D&G not to 
cancel any of her policies, until she got confirmation that all her premiums would be 
refunded. The agent explained during the call, that she would have to revert the instruction 
to cancel, which was done. The agent also said that she would raise a complaint on Miss 
Ws behalf, in order to get a refund of all her premiums. As, this was done. Im satisfied that 
there was evidence that Miss W asked D&G to reinstate the policies, which D&G acted 
upon. 
D&G has provided evidence that all the premiums were cancelled and all the payments that 
had been made up until 23 June 2022, were refunded to Miss W. And no further payments 
were taken from her account nor were any other plans opened. 
Miss W hasnt provided enough evidence to show that any further payments were taken from 
her account. So, although I understand that Miss W believes that further money was taken, 
Im satisfied that the premium payments ceased, as per her instruction to D&G. 
Consequently, I dont think D&G acted inappropriately. As it followed Miss Ws instruction to 
initially cancel the policies, then to revert the cancellation of those polices and finally to 
refund and cancel all the policies. So, I dont agree that it fraudulently opened policies or 
took premiums, without Miss Ws consent. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Miss W will be, Im 
satisfied that D&G acted on Miss Ws instruction and ultimately cancelled the policies and 
refunded the premiums in full. And I cant see any evidence that Miss W suffered any 
financial loss. So, I cant ask D&G to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman