DRN-2082570
The complaint
Mr C complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as MR LENDER lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2020 that I summarise below.
Mr C was given 11 loans by MR LENDER between September 2015 and September 2018. 
All the loans were instalment loans. I understand that loans 1 to 10 are closed but loan 11 
remains outstanding.
A summary of Mr C's borrowing is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount
1 04/09/2015 25/09/2015 £100.00
2 27/09/2015 28/10/2015 £150.00
3 31/10/2015 19/01/2016 £250.00
4 26/01/2016 27/01/2016 £100.00
5 09/02/2016 26/02/2016 £100.00
6 12/03/2016 27/05/2016 £100.00
7 12/09/2016 25/10/2016 £200.00
8 14/10/2017 27/10/2017 £200.00
9 02/01/2018 21/05/2018 £200.00
10 21/05/2018 28/05/2018 £200.00
11 25/09/2018 outstanding £200.00
When Mr C first complained to MR LENDER about his loans, the lender offered to make a 
gesture of goodwill by discounting the outstanding balance of loan 11 and closing the 
account. Mr C didnt accept that offer and brought his complaint to this service.
Mr C's complaint was assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that MR LENDER 
should not have agreed to provide loans 7, 10 or 11. So he asked MR LENDER to 
compensate Mr C. MR LENDER did not agree with the adjudicators assessment about 
loans 10 and 11 but it did make a partial offer to refund the interest and charges that Mr C 
paid in respect of loan 7  in addition to the goodwill offer it had previously made in relation 
to the outstanding loan 11. Mr C did not accept MR LENDERS offer so the complaint 
passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought the complaint should be partly upheld. 
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks that MR 
LENDER needed to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. I explained that MR LENDER needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it 
didn't lend irresponsibly. This means that it had to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy 
itself that Mr C could repay the loans in a sustainable way. MR LENDER's checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as the loan amount, the repayment amounts 
and the consumers income and expenditure. But there was no set list of checks MR 
LENDER had to do.
With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate in 
the early stages of the lending relationship. But I considered if there were any other factors 
that might indicate that MR LENDER should fairly and reasonably have done more to 
establish whether continued lending was sustainable for Mr C.
I noted that Mr C took 11 loans in approximately three years and that there was a gap of 
around a year between the seventh and eighth loans. I thought the length of the gap was 
such that MR LENDER might reasonably have considered that any problems that had led Mr 
C to take the previous loans had been resolved. So I thought this gap was long enough to 
represent a clean break in lending and I looked at loans 1 to 7 as one chain of lending.
I didnt think the 4-month gap between Mr C paying off loan 10 and taking loan 11 was long 
enough to represent a clean break in lending. So I treated loans 8 to 11 as another chain of 
lending.
Loans 1 to 7
I thought that the checks MR LENDER did before agreeing the first four loans were 
proportionate. Given the amount it was lending to the consumer each time, what Mr C had 
told MR LENDER about his circumstances and the number of loans agreed at this point, I 
didnt think it wouldve been proportionate for MR LENDER to ask Mr C for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first four loans. So I said didnt intend upholding the complaint about loans 1 to 4.
But I did think MR LENDER should have carried out a more thorough review of Mr Cs 
financial circumstances, to satisfy itself that he could meet his ongoing repayments 
sustainably, before it agreed to provide loans 5 or 6. Mr C had repaid loan 4 early - just a 
day or so after taking out the loan. But he then borrowed again, for the fifth time, around 2 
weeks later. I thought the lender should have realised that Mr C might be having difficulties 
managing his finances and that it couldnt rely on the financial information that he was 
providing. Mr C had provided some information about his difficult financial circumstances 
when he applied to MR LENDER for loans 5 and 6. But it wasnt enough evidence for me to 
fairly say that better checks at the time would have led MR LENDER to conclude that it 
shouldnt provide these loans. So I didnt intend upholding Mr Cs complaint about loans 5 
and 6.
I did think if the lender had carried out better checks before it agreed loan 7, it would have 
realised that Mr C had a number of other short-term loans with other lenders and that it was 
likely he would not be able to repay loan 7 in a sustainable manner. I didn't think MR 
LENDER should have provided loan 7 to Mr C. But as MR LENDER had already agreed to 
refund the interest and charges in connection with this loan, I said that I didnt need to 
consider this loan any further except for what needs to happen next.
Loans 8 to 11
As I had explained I thought the gap between loans 7 and 8 was such that MR LENDER might reasonably have considered that any problems that had led Mr C to take the earlier 
loans had been resolved. So it was reasonable for the lender to treat Mr C as it would a new 
customer, with a new cycle of lending. I thought the checks MR LENDER did before 
agreeing to loans 8 to 9 were also reasonable and proportionate. I didnt think the lending 
had reached the point where I think MR LENDER should have been carrying out more in-
depth checks when it agreed to the first two loans in this new chain of lending.
Our adjudicator had thought that MR LENDER should have declined Mr Cs application for 
loans 10 and 11 because Mr C had twice deferred payment for loan 9 and when he did 
eventually repay the he immediately borrowed again. Our adjudicator thought this should 
have led the lender to conclude that Mr C was having difficulty repaying his loans 
sustainably and therefore it should not have lent any further to him. MR LENDER had told us 
that consumers were allowed the flexibility of deferring repayments and it should not be 
assumed to be a sign of financial difficulty. I considered this carefully. I thought it was 
reasonable to assume that Mr C was aware of the option to defer repayments. I didnt think 
the fact that he deferred his loan repayment should in itself have immediately led MR 
LENDER to conclude that it should not lend further to Mr C. However, I thought Mr Cs 
repayment and borrowing behaviour at this point should have caused some concerns for the 
lender as it could have been a signal that he was having financial difficulties. Taking 
everything into account, I thought MR LENDER should have been concerned about Mr Cs 
financial position when he applied for loan 10. And I thought that should have led the lender 
to take steps to independently verify Mr Cs financial circumstances  for example by 
requesting bank statements. 
From what I had seen, Mr C already owed a number of other lenders, repaying other short-
term loans. I thought if MR LENDER had carried out more checks when Mr C applied for 
loan 10 it ought reasonably to have realised that it was unlikely he wouldve been able to 
sustainably repay this loan  or any subsequent lending. Taking everything into account, I 
thought that, as a responsible lender, MR LENDER should have declined to give Mr C loan 
10 or any further lending. So I intended to uphold the complaint about loans 10 and 11.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence.
MR LENDER disagreed with my provisional decision as well as the reasons for upholding 
loans 10 and 11. It said 
You've also mentioned that you believe we should [have] carried out a full financial review 
on these loans, however, having reviewed the stage of lending we believe it would have 
been disproportionate to carry this out for the third and fourth loan in the chain, given that the 
amounts stayed the same and there was a sizeable gap of 120 days between repaying loan 
10 and applying for loan 11.
MR LENDER also said that Mr C had informed it that he was re-paying between £100-£250 
towards other loans, this didnt indicate that he was repaying multiple lenders nor did it 
highlight any difficulty. And that it thought given his monthly outgoings and disposable 
income, the loans were affordable to him. MR LENDER said that as Mr C had signed a 
contract confirming that he had given true and correct information, it ought to be able to rely 
on the information he had provided.
Mr C responded to my provisional decision by saying he would send all his bank statements 
dating back to September 2015 as he thinks these would shed light on the scale of his 
situation. He said that as numerous companies had removed negative information from his 
credit report due to irresponsible lending claims, his credit file would not suffice in showing 
how many loans were taken at any one point nor would it show any patterns in reliance on 
loans due to these omissions.I would like to thank both Mr C and MR LENDER for their comments which I have taken into 
account when coming to my final decision - along with all the other evidence and arguments 
presented in this matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I dont think the gap of around 120 days between Mr C paying off loan 10 and taking loan 11 
was such that a lender might reasonably have considered that any problems that had led Mr 
C to take the earlier loan had been resolved.  So I dont think it was a clean break in the 
lending. MR LENDER disagrees with this, but it hasnt offered any new evidence or 
reasoning as to why it was reasonable to consider this to be a clean break. So I dont think 
there is a reason to depart from my approach from treating loans 8 to 11 as one chain of 
lending.
MR LENDER thinks it would have been disproportionate to carry out a full financial review 
before loans 10 and 11 as these were only the third and fourth loan in this particular chain 
of lending. But as I explained in my provisional decision, I thought Mr Cs repayment and 
borrowing behaviour at this point should have caused some concerns for the lender. Having 
twice deferred payment of loan 9 (the second loan in this new chain) Mr C then repaid the 
loan and immediately borrowed again. I suggested this could have been a signal to MR 
LENDER that he was having financial difficulties. I didnt think MR LENDER should 
automatically have declined his loan application, but I did think that his repayment and 
borrowing behaviour ought reasonably to have alerted the lender that this consumer might 
be having difficulties managing his money and so it ought reasonably have carried out more 
thorough checks at that point  to satisfy itself that Mr C could repay the loan sustainably. 
MR LENDER also says that Mr C informed it at the time that he was paying up to £250 
towards other credit commitments but that this didnt indicate he was in any financial 
difficulty. It thinks the loans were affordable for Mr C and that it ought to have been able to 
rely in the information that he provided at the time. 
But as I explained in my provisional decision, the lender was required to establish whether 
Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. I said that it follows that a lender ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. I think 
proportionate checks prior to loan 10 would most likely have led Mr LENDER to discover the 
extent of Mr Cs other borrowing and so it ought reasonably to have realised that it was 
unlikely he wouldve been able to sustainably repay this loan  or any subsequent lending. 
And that MR LENDER ought reasonably to have concluded that it wasnt appropriate to lend 
any further. 
Although Mr C told us he would send further information, I have not received anything and 
the deadline for responses to my provisional decision passed some time ago. 
I appreciate why Mr C might think that his financial difficulties should have been discovered 
by MR LENDER at an earlier point and that it should have realised the loans were not 
affordable. But I explained in my provisional decision why I thought less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship. 
Ive thought very carefully about all of Mr Cs and MR LENDERS comments but they have 
not changed my view of this complaint. 
So I confirm the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision and I partly uphold the 
complaint.Putting things right
I understand loan 11 remains outstanding. MR LENDER should try to agree an affordable 
repayment arrangement with Mr C in respect of any outstanding balance - bearing in mind 
the need to treat him positively and sympathetically in those discussions. If MR LENDER has 
sold the outstanding debt it should buy it back, if its able to do so, and then take the 
following steps. If MR LENDER isnt able to buy the debt back then it should liaise with the 
new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
MR LENDER should:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr C towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything that may 
have already been refunded.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr C which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date the payments were originally made to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the outstanding loan that is 
being upheld (loan 11), and treat any repayments made by Mr C as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on the outstanding loan. If this results in Mr C having made 
overpayments then MR LENDER should refund these overpayments with 8% simple 
interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. MR LENDER should then refund the amounts 
calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If an outstanding balance remains then the amounts calculated in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan (and any principal written-off 
under a redress scheme). If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr C. 
However if an outstanding balance remains then MR LENDER should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr C, bearing in mind the need to treat him positively and 
sympathetically in those discussions.
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Cs credit file in relation loans 7, 10 and 
11. If MR LENDER has sold the outstanding loan it should ask the debt purchaser to do the 
same.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MR LENDER to deduct tax from this interest. MR 
LENDER should give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold this complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited 
trading as MR LENDER to put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020.
 
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman