DRN-3994566
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy that The Co-operative Bank placed a block on his debit card and didnt fully 
explain why.
What happened
Mr N tried to make purchases online but was unable to do so and received a notification 
telling him he had to contact Co-op directly. Mr N contacted Co-op and was told a block had 
been placed on his debit card following a failed transaction with a different merchant. Mr N 
wasnt happy about this as he hadnt attempted any transactions with the other merchant as 
Co-op claimed. Mr N also wasnt happy that Co-op wouldnt provide a more detailed 
explanation of why the block had been placed on his card, and so he raised a complaint.
Co-op looked at Mr Ns complaint. They confirmed that the card had been blocked resulting 
from failed verification on an attempted transaction and didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly 
by blocking the card pending contact from Mr N as they had. Mr N wasnt satisfied with Co-
ops response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and liaised with Co-op who provided a 
more detailed explanation as to what had happened which our investigator relayed to Mr N. 
But our investigator felt that it had been reasonable for Co-op to have blocked the card when 
they did, and they didnt feel that any further action from Co-op was required. Mr N remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Co-op have demonstrated to my satisfaction that transactions were unsuccessfully 
attempted on Mr Ns debit card. These transactions failed for verification purposes which 
resulted in Mr Ns debit card being blocked by Co-op for future similar transactions until such 
time that Mr N contacted them to remove the block. This seems reasonable to me and given 
that Im satisfied that these attempted transactions did occur, Im also satisfied that Co-op 
didnt act unfairly towards Mr N by placing the block on his card as they did.
Mr N has confirmed that he didnt attempt those transactions. But its clear that they were 
attempted, and so I feel this further justifies the block that was placed on Mr Ns card by   
Co-op as a security measure following the failed transaction attempts.
Mr N is unhappy that Co-op havent provided him with what he feels is a satisfactory 
explanation as to what happened, and feels that Co-op are trying to disguise the fact that his 
transactions were blocked because of an error by Co-op. 
When Mr N first asked Co-op for an explanation, Co-op explained that his card was blocked 
because of prior failed verification. Co-op then unblocked Mr Ns card and explained that 
they didnt feel that theyd made an error or acted unfairly because they were satisfied the 
reason for the card being blocked was reasonable. 
Mr N then asked for a more detailed explanation as to why his card had been blocked for 
verification purposes, and at this time he was told about the specific attempted transactions 
that had prompted the block. Mr N rejected this further explanation and said he couldnt 
recall attempting any transactions to the merchant in question. Mr N also stated his belief 
that these issues were all because of an error by Co-op, but which Co-op refused to admit.
It's clear that Mr N is frustrated by what he sees as a lack of detail in Co-ops answers to his 
questions, and that, ultimately, Mr N might also not believe the answers he was given. But 
on review, I dont feel that Co-op have provided Mr N with a poor standard of service here. 
This is because, as explained, Im satisfied that the attempted transactions did take place, 
and that therefore the block on Mr Ns card was reasonable. And I note that the reason for 
the block was explained to Mr N, albeit in basic form, in the first instance when the block was 
removed. Additionally, details of the specific attempted transaction that prompted the block 
were then provided to Mr N when he asked for further information. 
While liaising with this service, Co-op have explained that they should have questioned Mr N 
about the disputed transactions further when Mr N told Co-op that he couldnt recall ever 
attempting them. Im in agreement with this point. But fortunately, it hasnt affected the 
outcome here, which Im satisfied was that Mr Ns card was fairly and reasonably blocked by 
Co-op when the attempted transactions failed for verification purposes. 
And, while Mr N may believe that no such attempted transactions took place, and that Co-op 
made some form of error, Im satisfied that they were attempted, and that Co-op havent 
made any error. And Im also satisfied the level of explanation provided to Mr N about what 
happened was reasonable and that no further action is merited from Co-op in this regard.
Finally, Mr N has expressed his dissatisfaction that Co-op didnt proactively contact him 
having blocked his card. I can appreciate why Mr N would have liked Co-op to contact him, 
but it isnt for this service to instruct a business to change their operating procedures, and I 
dont feel that Mr N having to contact Co-op to unblock his card himself is unfair. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr N was wanting, but for the reasons given above it 
follows that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Co-op to take any further action 
here. I hope Mr N will understand, given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman