DRN-1169410
The complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Ltd (AMEX) unreasonably 
requested identification from him, to carry out his Subject Access Request (SAR).
What happened
Mr B is a Gold Card customer of AMEX and applied for an additional cash back credit card. 
The application was successful but Mr B felt it took longer to process his application than he 
would have expected. As a result of this he put in a SAR to see what might have caused the 
delay. When Mr B put in his request, he was asked by AMEX in writing to provide additional 
identification information so they could process his request. Mr B felt that AMEX didnt need 
this information because, he had recently gone through security checks with them, they had 
his address on record and it was clear that he was the person asking for the SAR. He also 
felt the letters he received were aggressive in their tone. 
AMEX didnt feel they had done anything wrong and were acting in line with their procedures 
and what is expected of them under General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Mr B 
disagreed saying they had acted unlawfully and the matter was referred to this service.
The investigator gathered the relevant information but didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint saying 
that he felt that AMEX hadnt acted unreasonably in its request for further identification, 
given the risks associated with releasing the personal data he asked for and that it was part 
of AMEXs internal procedures. The investigator didnt think the letters asking for the 
identification were unreasonable. 
Mr B disagreed with the investigators opinion and asked the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have come to the same outcome as the 
investigator and I will explain how I have come to my decision here.
Let me start by saying I do understand Mr B might be frustrated when asked for identification 
for his request, having only recently been through security checks when applying for an 
additional credit card.  What I have considered here is whether AMEX was unreasonable 
when asking for the further identification for the SAR. 
To begin with I note that Mr B feels that the letters he received were aggressive when asking 
for this information, while any of us can interpret emails and letters differently, I cant see 
anything in these letters that would suggest their tone was inappropriate. While the letters 
may have been unwelcome, I am satisfied AMEX were simply asking for the information they 
said it needed, in the way I would expect to see here.
Ive also considered whether AMEX by nature of these letters was being difficult and 
obstructive in providing the SAR  something Mr B is entitled to ask for. Ive considered whether AMEX acted in line with its internal procedures and also within the spirit of GDPR 
when asking for the information it did. 
A key part of GDPR is to protect individuals personal data. The legislation recognises that 
the protection of individual data is extremely important and needs to be handled with due 
care and attention by businesses.  
The guidance under right of access published by the Information Commissioners Office 
(ICO) says that You should not request for more information if the identity of the requester is 
obvious to you but it goes on to say However, you should not assume that on every 
occasion the requester is who they say they are and it is reasonable to ask the requester to 
verify their identity before sending them information.
Neither GDPR nor ICO provide specific details of the checks businesses need to make and 
this will be dependent on the possible harm and distress that inappropriate disclosure could 
cause. Its left for the business to interpret and set in place its own policies and procedures 
on identification for SAR requests, provided it is proportionate.
Proportionality is important here. In this case Mr B was asking for full information from AMEX 
rather than a minor detail. It would be almost impossible to put right should if this information 
fall into the wrong hands and which may result in significant harm. As a result of this, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for AMEX to ask for additional identification given the 
information it would release under the SAR.  AMEX explained to this service that their 
process, at the time of Mr Bs request, was to ask customers to provide a proof of address 
and photo ID, which follows the guidance, set by ICO.  
I am satisfied that the purpose behind this is to both, protect its customers and to ensure 
their staff has a consistent approach to SAR requests so individuals are not discriminated 
against. This is what I would expect to see here. I do see that this does involve Mr B 
providing further identification after he only recently went through security checks for an 
additional card. But, I do feel that the extra security measures are, on balance, in both 
parties interests here. 
I am satisfied that AMEX has acted within the spirit of GDPR and in line with their own 
internal processes and procedures when acting on his SAR. Following on from that I cant 
see that AMEX has done anything wrong here.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
27 May 2020.
Barry White
Ombudsman