DRN-3302350
The complaint
Mr G complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim under his home 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr G had a HomeCare 4 policy with British Gas Insurance Limited (BG). This provided an 
annual service and insurance cover for his boiler, controls and central heating system, 
amongst other things.
Mr G has a Rayburn range which provides hot water for his house and for his central heating 
system, as well as being a cooker. When BG carried out their annual service in August 2019, 
their readings showed carbon monoxide issuing from the Rayburn, which meant it was 
unsafe to use.
After the Rayburn was turned off, Mr G no longer had central heating in his house. 
Fortunately, he had another means to generate hot water. BG did later provide two small fan 
heaters  and Mr G bought his own oil-filled radiators.
More than a month later, BG contacted Mr G to tell him that an engineer would visit to carry 
out repairs the following week.
When the engineer visited, he found that new parts were needed which would have to be 
ordered. Around two weeks after that, it became apparent that the parts hadnt yet been 
ordered. BG told Mr G that the new parts would be available around mid-October (about two 
weeks later).
On 16 October, BG contacted Mr G to tell his they still didnt have the required parts. Mr G 
contacted a supplier the same day who said the parts were in stock. Mr G passed on the 
details to BG.
In early November, an engineer visited Mr Gs property and noted that a call to the 
manufacturer was required. Two days later, an engineer noted that the parts still needed to 
be ordered.
After Mr Gs son made attempts to chase BG to get the matter resolved, Mr G took matters 
int his own hands and contacted a third party engineer. Two days later, that engineer visited 
the property and fixed the Rayburn.
Mr G complained to BG about the service hed received. They paid for the repairs carried out 
by the third party engineer, which cost just over £200. And they gave Mr G a further £250 as 
what they described as a gesture of good will.
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome and brought his complaint to us. He thinks the 
compensation provided by BG doesnt reflect the degree of trouble and upset he suffered. 
Mr G has a disability, which he says he told BG about. And at the relevant time his wife was 
seriously ill.
Our investigator looked into it and thought BG should pay Mr G a further £300 in 
compensation for his trouble and upset. He thought this properly reflected the inconvenience 
of having no adequate heating for four months or so and the stress and frustration of the 
repeated visits from BG, the chasing Mr G had to do, and the promises BG made which 
were never fulfilled.
BG disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that Mr G has also expressed his dissatisfaction at the annual 
services provided by BG over a number of years. Those issues are being dealt with as a 
separate complaint and so its not for me to comment on them here.
This decision is a relatively simple one, because theres no dispute about the facts in this 
case. Mr G had cover for his Rayburn at the relevant times. BG accepted that and set out to 
carry out repairs  and told Mr G thats what they were doing. 
Four months later Mr G still hadnt had the repairs carried out, despite being told several 
times that parts would be available soon. He eventually had the repairs carried out by 
someone else, within a matter of a few days at most.
In my view, that amounts to very poor customer service on BGs part, which must have been 
extremely frustrating and annoying for Mr G.
BG have told us theyd advised Mr G previously  after annual services dating back to 2016 - 
that his Rayburn needed to be replaced. I dont have any real reason to doubt they said that, 
but its almost entirely irrelevant as far as I can see. 
For one thing, BG renewed Mr Gs policy, took his premiums and had his system on cover 
for the whole period. They never attempted to cancel the policy or exclude the Rayburn. So, 
Mr G was on cover in August 2019.
BG also tell us it was unfortunate, but they couldnt get the parts to carry out the repairs. 
That seems odd, to say the least, given that the third party engineer had the issues fixed 
within days.
Its also stretching credulity to the limit to suggest that it justifiably took BG from August 2019 
until December 2019 to find out that they couldnt source the parts. And, I should say, that 
situation ended in December only because Mr G took matters into his own hands. BG still 
hadnt, at that point, told Mr G they werent going to be able to source the required parts.
BG paid Mr G £250 in response to his complaint to them  as well as settling his bill for the 
repairs. They might call that a gesture of good will, but I think its safe to conclude that its 
more of an admission that the service provided to Mr G was poor. 
Putting things right
In terms of the impact BGs errors and delays had on Mr G, I have to take into account that 
the effects lasted for four months or more. Whereas, if BG had either sourced the parts 
effectively or admitted within a reasonable time that they couldnt do so, Mr Gs Rayburn 
would have been back in action within weeks at most.For those four months, Mr G was without effective heating in his home, at a time when he 
and his wife might reasonably be described as vulnerable. The two fan heaters provided by 
BG are no substitute for a functioning central heating system. And I note that Mr G had to 
buy other heaters himself. 
The lack of heating may not have caused any great inconvenience in August, when the 
Rayburn was first turned off. But BG allowed Mr G to get into December without dealing 
properly with his claim.
In addition, although Mr G had another means of obtaining hot water, its a reasonable 
assumption that was less convenient and/or more expensive  otherwise Mr G wouldnt have 
been using his Rayburn for that purpose in the first place.
I also have to take into account the very understandable frustration Mr G felt at the poor 
service he was getting from BG. He had to chase them for updates on a number of 
occasions. When they gave updates, they often involved BG giving promises to resolve the 
issue within a certain time frame  only to fail to deliver and give (usually only when chased) 
another timeline. The whole experience must have been extremely stressful for Mr G.
In summary, given the degree of inconvenience, stress and frustration experienced by Mr G, 
I agree with our investigators view that BG need to add a further £300 to the £250 already 
paid in compensation for Mr Gs trouble and upset.          
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr G a further £300 in compensation for his trouble 
and upset.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman