DRN-4078194
The complaint
Mr G and Mr G (who Ill refer to as Mr G1 and Mr G2) complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc 
didnt redeem their mortgage in a timely manner. They ask for an apology and compensation 
for additional legal costs. Mr G1 and Mr G2 are represented by their solicitor, who Ill refer to 
as Mr S.
What happened
Mr G1 and Mr G2 repaid their mortgage with Clydesdale in May 2022. The charge wasnt 
removed from the property title until July 2022. Mr S says this was due to errors by 
Clydesdale.
Our investigator said Clydesdale redeemed the mortgage promptly when it received 
redemption funds in early May 2022. Our investigator said the redemption statement set out 
clearly that Clydesdale wouldnt remove the legal charge unless this was requested. Mr G1 
requested this in early July 2022 and Clydesdale removed the charge a few days later. Our 
investigator said any delay in removing the charge wasnt due to errors by Clydesdale.
Mr S didnt agree. He said Clydesdale did make errors and failed to acknowledge his calls or 
respond to correspondence. He said its requirement that he complete a form was old 
fashioned and he wasnt aware of this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clydesdale issued a redemption statement to Mr G1 and Mr G2 in April 2022. It provided a 
copy. The redemption statement says:
How to have the Banks Charge removed
Clydesdale Bank will not remove the Legal Charge (England and Wales) over the 
property unless requested to do so by you, once the mortgage has been redeemed in 
full. To request this, please submit your completed Form DS1 by fax, DX, or post
Redemption funds were sent to Clydesdale on 9 May 2022 and the mortgage was redeemed 
the same day.
Clydesdale says it was first asked to remove the charge in early July 2022, when Mr G1 
called. It sent an electronic discharge form to the Land Registry the next day. It confirmed 
this to Mr G1 and Mr S.
Having reviewed the available evidence, I dont think I can fairly find that any delays were 
caused by Clydesdale. It acted promptly to redeem the mortgage when it received the funds, 
and to remove the charge when it was asked to do so. 
Mr S says Clydesdales process  which requires a form to be completed and returned  is 
old fashioned. He says its accepted practice for lenders to contact the Land Registry on the 
day of redemption, and this is an intrinsic part of redeeming the mortgage. Banks are entitled 
to make commercial decisions about their processes. Clydesdale process was clearly set out 
on the redemption statement. 
Mr S says he didnt see the redemption statement. He says his clients just gave him the 
redemption figure. Its unfortunate that Mr S didnt receive a copy of the redemption 
statement. But I cant see that this was due to an error by Clydesdale. Mr G1 and Mr G2 
could have provided a copy to Mr S or asked Clydesdale to send the redemption statement 
to Mr S. Or Mr S could have asked Mr G1 and Mr G2 for a copy.
Mr S also says Clydesdale refused to discuss the matter when he called and didnt respond 
to his correspondence. 
Clydesdale says it has no record of receiving calls or correspondence from Mr G1, Mr G2 or 
Mr S between early May 2022 and early July 2022. 
Mr S sent details of a call he made to Clydesdale in mid-June 2022. Clydesdale cant find a 
record of this call. Mr S says Clydesdale told him it couldnt speak to him as he wasnt on its 
panel. Most likely Clydesdale wouldnt have discussed Mr G1 and Mr G2s mortgage 
account with Mr S without written authority from Mr G1 and Mr G2. Mr S says as Clydesdale 
wouldnt speak to him he asked Mr G1 and Mr G2 to contact Clydesdale.
Clydesdale does have a record of Mr G1 calling in early July 2022. Mr S says Clydesdale 
arranged to remove the charge after it was contacted by Mr G1 without him sending the 
form. Clydesdale arranged to remove the charge when it was contacted directly by Mr G1. I 
think that was fair. Mr G1 was the account holder and the mortgage had been redeemed. 
This doesnt mean Clydesdale previously made an error when it developed or followed its 
process, which was set out on the redemption statement.
Mr S says hed given undertakings regarding the charge, and he spent extra time on the 
matter, which increased Mr G1 and Mr G2s legal fees. I appreciate the delay in the charge 
being removed caused frustration and inconvenience. But as I dont think this was due to an 
error by Clydesdale, I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require it to 
pay compensation or issue an apology.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G1 and Mr G2 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman