DRN-4358544
The complaint
Mr R complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) has treated him 
unfairly by applying interest to his account, which has led to his credit file being negatively 
impacted.
What happened
Mr R has had a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct since 2019. He says he placed 
orders on the account on a buy now pay later (BNPL) basis and paid the balances in time so 
he wouldnt occur interest.
Around August 2022 Mr R noticed he had incurred interest on his purchases, he says he 
noticed this because he thought his account should be zero, but he still had a remaining 
balance. He complained to Shop Direct about this.
Shop direct didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, it explained although some of his orders were 
made on the BNPL option, not all orders are eligible for this. And those that werent were 
placed on its normal 80-week plan, which is interest bearing. It also explained his monthly 
statements explained how much he needed to pay and by when, in order to avoid paying 
interest on his purchases. As he hadnt always paid those amounts in time interest had been 
applied.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service in April 2023, but our investigator explained we 
couldnt look into that as Mr R had brought it out of time. 
Mr R explained he had raised a new complaint with Shop Direct in early 2023  this was 
about interest being added to orders again and that Shop Direct were reporting late or 
missed payments to his credit file. He also complained that he had raised the complaint with 
them earlier and they had closed the complaint down before resolving it.
Shop Direct partially upheld Mr Rs complaint, it said:
it had applied the interest to the account correctly
it had a duty to report accurate information to the credit reference agencies (CRA) 
and as Mr R had missed payments on occasion or made partial payments and it had 
reported this correctly.
it had closed his complaint in error before issuing a final response and it was sorry for 
that
Mr R remained unhappy and so brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs complaint was one that should be upheld. In summary he 
said:
While some of Mr Rs orders had been on the BNPL scheme, others hadnt and were 
interest bearing. And having reviewed the accounts he could see that the interest had 
been applied correctly to the account.
The BNPL scheme is clear about how much and when Mr R needed to pay to avoid 
paying interest, and he had not always done what was needed, so interest had been 
applied fairly to those purchases
Shop Direct had acted fairly when reporting missed or insufficient payments to CRAs
Mr R didnt agree, he said that the website was confusing and its not always clear how to 
make sure an order is BNPL or that payments are being allocated to a BNPL order. He also 
said he felt others were in the same position having looked at forums on social media. He 
asked for an ombudsmans decision and also asked for whoever looked at the case to use 
the Shop Direct website to see how confusing it is to use.
The matter has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise that Ive summarised this complaint in less detail than the parties and Ive done so
using my own words. Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the key issues. The rules 
that govern this service allow me to do so. But this doesnt mean that Ive not considered
everything that both parties have given to me. I must point out to Mr R that I have not used 
Shop Directs website in order to reach my decision, as I dont think it was necessary for me 
to do so in order to reach the right answer here.
Having looked back through the history of Mr Rs account I can see he has made multiple 
purchases using the BNPL option, the first one in November 2019 and through to 2023. I can 
also see that some of his purchases have been made on the 80-week payment option. In 
response to earlier complaints Shop Direct has explained to Mr R that the BNPL option isnt 
available for all purchase as this can depend on the value of the purchase.
Mr R says Shop Directs website is confusing and so its not easy to choose the BNPL 
option. And while he may well find it confusing, given the number of orders he has made this 
way over the four years he has held the account, Im satisfied on balance he knows how to 
do this, when the option is available. Shop Direct has provided evidence of the online 
journey for each of Mr Rs orders and Ive seen no evidence to show any orders that werent 
on BNPL should have been. As Im satisfied the orders have gone through the system as 
they should have done, Ive looked to see if interest has been applied fairly to the account. I 
think it has; Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of the account explain how the BNPL offer works, and this has 
also been explained to Mr R in previous complaint responses from Shop Direct. But in the 
interest of clarity, I will explain here:
When making a purchase using BNPL, a customer is given a defined period in which to pay 
for an item. If the item is paid for in full before the defined period is up, then they dont have 
to pay interest on the purchase. When making payments to the account the customer needs 
to allocate the payment to the BNPL part of the account, this can be done when making the 
payment online or by calling through to Shop Direct. If the BNPL purchase isnt paid in full at 
the end of the defined period interest is applied on the remaining balance of the purchase, 
from the date of the order until it is paid in full.In Mr Rs case, on some occasions he did not make the full payment in the defined period or 
has not allocated the payment to the BNPL balance of the account as he needed to. This 
has resulted in interest being added to those orders. Ive thought about if Mr R knew he had 
to allocate the payments and I think he did, because Shop Direct explained this to him in a 
letter in August 2020, when he incurred unexpected interest on a BNPL order. I can see that 
he has settled multiple BNPL orders without interest being added. In order to have done this 
he would have had to allocate payments to them. So not only am I satisfied he knew he had 
to do it, but Im also satisfied he knew how to do it. 
Ive also looked at the statements Mr R was sent monthly, and I can see from these that 
Shop Direct highlight what payments need to be made on each order and by when, in order 
to avoid paying interest. They also state what the estimated interest is for the following 
month. So, I think, Mr R ought to have been aware form these statements, when he was 
incurring interest and what he could do to avoid incurring it in the future. I appreciate that Mr 
R feels strongly that interest shouldnt have applied to his account. But I cant fairly say Shop 
Direct did anything wrong when applying it. 
Ive looked at the information that Shop Direct has reported to the CRAs. I can see that as 
Mr R didnt think he should have to pay the interest he stopped paying his monthly payments 
towards his account. This resulted in Shop Direct reporting late or missed payments to his 
credit file. Mr R says he was told his account would be placed on hold while Shop Direct 
considered his complaint, but Ive seen no evidence of this from the contact notes provided.
I can see from the live chat notes, Shop Direct was trying to speak to Mr R about his 
situation with regards to missing payment in March and April 2023, so I think he ought to 
have realised from this that his account wasnt on hold. 
Mr R made a choice not to make payments to his account because of his strength of feeling 
that the charges were unfair. But that doesnt mean Shop Direct shouldnt have recorded 
them as missed payments. The same as all other credit providers Shop Direct has a duty to 
accurately report the management of its customers accounts. So, when Mr R started to miss 
payments Shop Direct had a duty to record this on his credit file, and its likely to continue to 
do so for as long as he continues to miss payments. So, I cant reasonably say it was unfair 
of Shop Direct to report the missed payments to Mr Rs credit file.
Mr R also complained about Shop Direct closing his complaint and not dealing with it. Shop 
direct accepted it had made a mistake and apologised for the delay this caused in it issuing 
its final response letter to Mr R. I think an apology was appropriate in the circumstances.
I know Mr R will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in trying 
to resolve his dispute with Shop Direct can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman