DRN-4422857
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt honour the agreement 
in principle (AIP) that was in place, when they applied for a mortgage. They said they have 
now lost out on their desired interest rate which has meant they had to change lender and 
are now on a higher rate of interest.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R applied for a buy to let (BTL) mortgage online with NatWest. They said that 
an AIP was agreed on a rate of 3.89% fixed for five years. Mr and Mrs R said that they were 
told Mr R inputted incorrect details about his income  which was showing as £174,000  but 
Mr R said he didnt earn this amount so doesnt understand why NatWest told him this. 
Mr and Mrs R believe that NatWest have caused them to miss out on a good rate of interest 
and the delays in the application process have now meant that they have had to go to a new 
lender on a higher rate of interest. 
Mr and Mrs R said when they tried to log a formal complaint, the system wouldnt allow them 
to do this and when Mr R called to complain, the phone was put down on him. Mr and Mrs R 
would like NatWest to be transparent about their lending criteria as they feel that NatWest 
applied new criteria to their application which they feel is unfair. 
Mr and Mrs R would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience they have been 
caused or a fixed rate without any fees. 
NatWest issued a final response on the matter. They confirmed that an online application 
was made by Mr and Mrs R. They said the AIP would only remain available as long as the 
application meets their lending criteria which is agreed by an underwriter. 
They said the mortgage application was declined and when this happens a new application 
can be submitted again but if the mortgage interest rates change in the meantime, the 
application will have to be submitted with the rates available. 
NatWest said the application was declined because the underwriter could not verify the 
figures that Mr R declared for his income on the application form, against the income 
evidence that had been provided. NatWest said the income declared on the application form 
was £174,000 and was a combined figure of regular salary and a bonus. They said as this 
seemed to be incorrect, Mr R would need to make amendments and resubmit the application 
again  but he did not do this. 
NatWest confirmed that there were no changes to their lending policy that applied to Mr and 
Mrs Rs application. 
NatWest however acknowledged the issues that Mr and Mrs R encountered when they tried 
to raise a formal complaint, so they offered £200 compensation in recognition of this. 
Mr and Mrs R were unhappy with what NatWest had said, so they brought the complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. The 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint as she didnt think that NatWest had done anything 
wrong. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with the outcome. They said it was unacceptable and unfair and 
that NatWests origination process had multiple systemic faults which gave them false hope. 
Mr and Mrs R said that £200 is not enough for the financial impact they have been caused. 
They said they had to take out a loan at 5% which is costing £200 a month more. 
As Mr and Mrs R disagreed with the investigator, they asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint. Having considered everything by both parties, I agree 
with the outcome that the investigator made. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs R applied for a BTL mortgage online with NatWest. Mr and Mrs R said they were 
given an AIP which confirmed the amount they wanted to borrow on the interest rate they 
had chosen  3.89% fixed for five years. 
An AIP is an agreement in principle. It is not a firm guarantee that a mortgage will be granted 
as NatWest would have needed to ensure that the application met their lending criteria. So 
while I understand Mr and Mrs R are disappointed that NatWest declined their application  
it was never a formal approval.
I can see that NatWest sent Mr and Mrs R a letter dated 19 October 2022 asking for further 
evidence which included P60, payslips and the last four consecutive payslips confirming Mr 
Rs bonus which was declared on the application form.
Having looked at the online application that Mr and Mrs R made, I can see that Mr Rs 
income is declared as £174,000 which is formed of a regular salary of £116,000 and a bonus 
of £58,000. So its understandable that NatWest would want to verify this income against the 
evidence they had requested.
NatWest have told us that when they checked Mr Rs income evidence, they couldnt verify it 
as matching what he had declared on the application form. And Mr R has also told us that he 
doesnt earn £174,000 so he doesnt understand why NatWest have said that. Its therefore 
not clear why Mr R has declared an income of £174,000 if he has said he doesnt earn that 
amount. And because of that, it was always going to be the case that the income proofs 
didnt match what he had said. NatWest said this didnt meet NatWests lending criteria and 
affordability assessment  so they declined the application. 
They said that Mr and Mrs R could amend the application and re-submit it for review again, 
but they declined the application at that point. My understanding is that Mr and Mrs R didnt 
re-submit the application and instead went to another lender. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R feel very strongly about losing the interest rate of 3.89% and 
have now said they are paying more on a higher interest rate. But I cant see that NatWest 
have acted unfairly here. 
Once an application is submitted, the income proofs had to be verified which they were not 
in this instance. And as it was an online application, the onus would have been on Mr and 
Mrs R to ensure that the information entered was accurate. The application was declined, 
and Mr and Mrs R could have re-submitted it for further review with the correct information  
but they didnt do this. I therefore cant hold NatWest responsible for the information 
provided by Mr and Mrs R and for the fact that they lost out on this interest rate. 
Mr and Mrs R believe that NatWest changed their lending criteria which is the reason their 
application was declined. But I havent seen anything that suggests that NatWest has 
changed their lending criteria. The issue here is that the income evidence didnt match what 
had been entered on the application form. I understand that Mr and Mrs R tried to complain to NatWest about this and they told us they 
had a lot of difficulty in doing so. I think the £200 that NatWest have offered in recognition of 
this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I know that Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision, but Im satisfied that 
NatWest have acted fairly and reasonably in this situation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman