DRN-4088304
The complaint
Mr O complains that World First UK Ltd (WF) blocked a payment he received and asked for 
unnecessary information.  
What happened
Mr O was sent a payment from a client on 20 October 2022 totalling £55.39. He says that 
WF did not inform him they had blocked this payment in a timely manner, and they 
requested significant amounts of information for them to release it. Hes said he was unable 
to upload the information due to issues with the WF website. Mr O felt the staff handling his 
request were rude and did not adequately help him. The funds were returned to the sender 
on 6 December 2022 and Mr O says he has ended his relationship with WF as a result of 
this issue. 
WF says that they asked Mr O for additional information, such as an invoice, to verify the 
source of the payment and that doing so was within the terms and conditions of the account. 
However, they say Mr O chose not to supply them with the information that they felt was 
reasonable. They did agree that some of the phone calls were not as professional as they 
would have liked and paid Mr O £50 compensation in recognition of this. 
Mr O referred the complaint to our service and our Investigator looked into it. They felt that 
overall, WF had not made an error when it requested information to verify the payment and 
that the £50 compensation was sufficient in the circumstances. 
Mr O disagreed with the outcome. He reiterated that he could not upload the information due 
to issues with the website and that he was not informed of the blocked transaction until he 
contacted WF to chase the payment in November. He felt the term that the Investigator had 
relied upon was unfair and that WF had created roadblocks for him along the way, amongst 
other things. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why in 
more detail. 
Mr O has mentioned other issues, including excessive fees and charges and what he felt 
amounted to a fishing scam from WF. However, I cant see that WF has been given a 
chance to answer these complaint points first. So, I have not considered them further as part 
of this decision. 
There is a disagreement over when WF first asked Mr O to verify the payment that was 
attempted to be paid into his account on 20 October 2022. Mr O says he only became aware 
in November when he contacted WF chasing the payment.  But WF says they contacted him 
on the same day the payment was attempted. 
WF has been able to provide us with a screenshot of their internal systems showing they 
sent an e-mail on 20 October 2022 to the address that Mr O has confirmed was correct, the 
same day that the payment was attempted. The title of the e-mail is action required: we 
need to verify a payment you received. The content of the e-mail is no longer available but 
based on the timing of the e-mail and the subject of it, I think its more likely it is regarding 
the attempted payment of £55.39. I appreciate Mr O has said he did not receive the e-mail, 
however as Im satisfied WF sent it, I think they attempted to verify the payment in a timely 
manner so they did not make an error in the circumstances.
Mr O has said he was asked for gigabytes of information in relation to the payment, as well 
as links to his online storefronts, which he found to be unreasonable. WF has said their 
notes confirm they would have only asked him for an invoice showing the payment was due 
and confirming the source of the funds. 
Listening to the phone calls from 18 November 2022 when Mr O first called WF about this 
issue, one of the advisors tries to talk Mr O through uploading documents on his online 
banking and mentions that there should be the option to upload an invoice, which supports 
their notes reflecting only an invoice was required. 
Mr O has sent us e-mails between himself and WF. One e-mail was from WF dated 6 
January in which they explain they are carrying out a periodic review of his account and ask 
him for information about his business, including any links to his storefronts. I think it is likely 
this is the request Mr O is recalling, however this was requested some two months after he 
first contacted WF about the blocked transaction of £55.93 and is related to a separate 
issue. 
On balance, I think its more likely WF only required simple documentation related to the 
payment itself to prove the source of the funds, such as an invoice. 
Ive considered whether or not it was reasonable for WF to withhold the payment, pending 
further information on the source of the funds. They have pointed to their terms and 
conditions which state:
2.10. We may require you to provide us with additional information and documents from time 
to time prior to using the World Account. Such additional information might include 
documents allowing World First to verify the source of the funds, including but not limited to 
invoices for services delivered for which you are being paid, and payment confirmation from 
the entity sending the funds.
Looking at this, the terms do allow WF to request additional information and specifically cite 
invoices to verify the source of funds. While the terms do not specifically say they can 
withhold a payment, it does say they can ask for information prior to using the World 
Account. And I think it is reasonable for them to apply this term to Mr Os specific 
circumstance when they asked for additional information prior to the funds being collected 
from the sender and crediting his account. 
Mr O has mentioned that he feels the term is unfair and there should be specific grounds 
under which they can apply it. Ive considered the term generally and I dont think it creates a 
substantial imbalance in the rights and obligations between WF and Mr O. Theyve ultimately 
asked Mr O for documentation showing the source of the funds in order to ensure the 
payment is legitimate and meets their security measures and I dont think this is unreasonable. 
I do understand Mr Os frustration that he has received other payments from the same 
company in the past, but I dont agree that this means WF should never carry out additional 
checks. In one of the calls on 18 November 2022, the call handler explains the check has 
occurred as a result of their systems being migrated to a new platform, and one-off checks 
needing to be completed to verify payments going forward. And while Mr O may disagree, on 
balance I dont think this is unreasonable, though I accept it has been an inconvenience to 
Mr O.
Mr O has said that issues with WFs website meant he was unable to upload the documents. 
He has provided a screenshot, but it is unclear what this is related to. While I appreciate    
Mr Os comments, I can also see that in the calls from 18 November 2022, he disagreed with 
the principle of having to provide additional documentation and made it clear he did not want 
to provide anything to do with the payment. And in the e-mail chains I have seen between 
himself and WF after that point, there is no mention of Mr O being unable to upload 
documents, just that he was unable to access the funds. 
In any event, the funds were returned to the sender on 6 December 2022  around 12 
working days after Mr O first contacted WF about it. While this could have been completed 
quicker, Im also conscious that Mr O had raised a complaint at the same time about the 
issue, and I think it was reasonable that the return of the funds was delayed whilst an 
investigation was ongoing. This was completed on 1 December and following the final 
response letter being issued, the funds were released on 6 December. Considering this, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to ask WF to provide Mr O with compensation in relation 
to this aspect of the complaint. 
WF offered and paid Mr O £50 compensation in relation to a comment one of the call 
handlers made as well an e-mail sent to Mr O on 24 November 2022 not including clear 
information on what they required from him. Having listened to the calls and reviewed the 
communications, I agree that £50 compensation is fair in the circumstances, and I dont 
recommend an increase of this amount.  
My final decision
I do not instruct World First UK Ltd to take any further action to remedy Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman