DRN-1015977
 
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the repairs esure Insurance Limited carried out to his car after he 
made a claim on his motor insurance policy.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them in great 
detail again here. In summary, Mr D made a claim on his policy in May 2018 and esure 
decided to repair his car. But unfortunately the repairs werent completed successfully and 
its taken some time, engineers reports and a number of returns to various repairers for the 
work to be finished to an acceptable standard. Everything was finally resolved in mid June 
2019.                                     
Esure has offered Mr D the sum of £700 compensation for the inconvenience hes been 
caused. But he doesnt think this is enough.
Our investigator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Its taken substantially longer than wed expect for the repairs to be completed. And 
its not acceptable for it to have taken so many attempts to fix the car. 
This wouldve been frustrating for Mr D. But esure didnt argue the repairs were done 
correctly and it was proactive in trying to get the car fixed whenever Mr D raised 
issues with it.
Mr D also had a hire car when his was being repaired and given the nature of the 
repairs could use his own car while waiting for the repairs to be done. 
Overall esures offer of £700 compensation is reasonable.
 
Mr D has asked for an ombudsman review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional inconvenience in dealing 
with the consequences of an accident, making a claim on their insurance policy, making a 
complaint and putting things right. We wouldnt generally recommend theyre compensated 
for this.
But in this case its clear the distress and inconvenience Mr D has experienced goes beyond 
what can be reasonably expected. He has certainly been engaged in dealing with matters for far longer than would normally be expected in a claim of this type and has had to take his car 
in for repairs an excessive number of times.
Even so his car has now, after just over a year, been fully and satisfactorily repaired. And 
throughout he wasnt left without the use of a car. So, esure has satisfactorily carried out its 
obligations under the policy.
That said I think its fair to compensate Mr D for the additional distress and inconvenience 
hes experienced. Esure has offered him the sum of £700 for this, but he would like £1,000 
which is the same as his policy excess. Although I understand Mr Ds frustration and 
strength of feeling I think that would be too much. Taking everything into account, including 
the level of awards we make, I think that esures offer is fair and reasonable for the 
additional distress and inconvenience he has been caused. And I dont think I can 
reasonably require esure to pay Mr D £1,000, or in fact any more than £700, as he would 
like.
Overall, I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case. I 
simply leave it to Mr D to decide, if he hasnt done so already, if he wants to accept esures 
offer.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman