DRN-1550194
 
 
Complaint
Mrs W, whos represented by a third party, says Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Background
Mrs W bought the policy in December 1995 at the same time as she was taking out a credit 
card.
She says she was told she had to take the policy to get the credit card. She also says it 
wasnt properly explained to her and she didnt need it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint because:
I think Barclays made Mrs W aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it out. The application form Mrs W filled out in a branch of Barclays asked her to 
indicate if she wanted PPI by ticking a box to show she wanted it. Mrs W did this. If 
shed left this section blank the PPI wouldnt have been added to her credit card. So I 
think its fair to say that the PPI was added at her request.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs W but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for 
her based on what Ive seen about her circumstances at the time. Mrs W told us that 
her employer provided up to six weeks pay if she couldnt work due to sickness. She 
also told us she didnt have any savings or other financial resources at the time. So I 
think she could have found it difficult to make her monthly payments fairly soon after 
being off work sick or losing her job. It follows that the PPI cover, which would pay 
out for up to 12 months if she made a successful claim, was likely to have been 
suitable for Mrs W.
Ive seen that the policy cost 70p for each £100 Mrs W owed on the card. If she 
made a successful claim, Mrs W would have had 10% of the outstanding balance on 
the card paid for up to 12 months. The policy cost appears to have been comparable 
to other similar policies offering similar benefits at the time and it appears to have 
been affordable.So having thought about everything carefully, I think the policy was suitable for 
Mrs W. 
As well as checking the policy was right for Mrs W, Barclays also had to give her 
clear enough information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted to buy it. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think the policy 
was suitable for her, I dont think better information wouldve stopped her from buying 
it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman