DRN-3500217
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt send him a card reader 
to enable him to make online transfers. This resulted in Mr A incurring a late payment fee on 
funds he was due to send to his solicitor. 
What happened
Mr A needed to make an online payment to his solicitors of £488 but needed a card reader 
to complete the security checks for the payment to be authorised, and he didnt have one. 
He requested a new card reader online, and then called Nationwide to make the payment by 
telephone banking.
The advisor Mr A spoke to wasnt able to complete the payment for Mr A over the phone as 
Nationwide doesnt accept telephone instructions unless the payment met their emergency 
criteria. As the advisor didnt think Mr As transfer request was an emergency, he was told to 
go to his local branch whod give him a replacement card reader so he could then process 
the payment online. 
But Mr A explained that he couldnt get to a branch due to his vulnerabilities, and that he was 
shielding due to the pandemic, as well as adhering to his religious faith by fasting. However, 
the advisor still didnt agree that they could process the payment over the phone. Mr A says 
that he told the advisor he wanted to make a complaint but then his call was cut off. 
Mr A called Nationwide again and got through to a different advisor. He explained he was 
upset about what had happened on the previous call and he thought the call had been 
terminated due to his race. The second advisor discussed the payment Mr A wanted to 
make, and he agreed hed make the payment on Mr As behalf as an emergency, as Mr A 
was vulnerable and shielding.
Around two weeks later Mr A went online to send a further payment to his solicitors of 
£9,742. But he says he still hadnt received a replacement card reader, and he was under 
the impression that as a payment had already been sent to his solicitor, he wouldnt need a 
card reader as his solicitor was no longer a new payee. However, Mr A couldnt complete the 
payment without a card reader  so he called Nationwide to make the payment over the 
phone.
Nationwide refused to complete the payment over the phone, and they didnt agree to make 
another exception despite Mr As circumstances. This resulted in Mr A having to find 
alternative means to send the payment to his solicitors. And as the payment arrived late, Mr 
A says he incurred a late payment fee.
Mr A complained to Nationwide about the way hed been treated. He felt that they hadnt 
showed any empathy towards his personal circumstances at the time which left him feeling 
vulnerable during the pandemic. 
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint. They said the first advisor had followed Nationwides 
procedures regarding telephone transfers - they dont accept telephone transfer instructions 
unless the payment meets their emergency criteria. Nationwide said the advisor had found 
that Mr A had recently been to a branch before he called to make this transfer request, so 
the request didnt meet their emergency criteria. Nationwide apologised that Mr As call had 
been cut off but indicated that this was a human error, as the intention had been to put the 
call on hold. 
As an apology for the error, Nationwide gave Mr A £50. They also explained to Mr A that 
card readers had been ordered, and that if there seemed to be a problem with Mr A not 
receiving them, for him to drop into a local branch to pick up a card reader.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Mr A referred his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators considered Mr As complaint, but they didnt uphold it. She said Nationwide 
hadnt acted unfairly towards Mr A as hed been treated in the same way as any other 
customer wanting to make similar payments. The investigator thought that it was more likely 
than not the card readers had been sent to Mr A, the account terms and conditions about 
bank transfers were clear and, Mr A didnt do enough to mitigate his losses as he left it to the 
day the funds were due to be paid to his solicitors to make the payment. 
Mr A rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. So, the case has 
been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions to that of our investigator. I know 
Mr A will be disappointed as I see how strongly he feels about this complaint. So, Ill explain 
why. 
Card readers
When Mr A opened the account in 2020, Nationwide says they sent Mr A a card reader as 
part of the account opening service. And that further card readers would only be sent if 
requested. Mr A says Nationwide didnt send him a card reader when he requested one on 
two occasions. Nationwide have sent an internal system screen shot to show that the card 
reader Mr A requested himself, and the card reader requested by the call handler were both 
ordered. So, while I accept Mr A didnt receive them, on balance, Im satisfied Nationwide did 
order the card readers, and Nationwide arent responsible for any problems with the postal 
system. So, Im not persuaded Nationwide did anything wrong here.
Telephone payments
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions that Nationwide have provided regarding 
telephone and online payments. And Ive also looked at Nationwides guidance on their 
website for Online banking without a card reader. The account terms and conditions state 
that Electronic Payments to other peoples accounts in the UK, and Immediate Bill Payments 
are to be made through internet banking or the banking app. And online it explains that you 
cant pay someone new without a card reader when looking to make an online payment. 
Only in exceptional circumstances will Nationwide be able to complete these types of 
transactions over the phone. Nationwide have provided their procedures for what they 
consider to be exceptional circumstances, and Ive taken this all into consideration when 
looking at the calls Mr A had with Nationwide.
 Call one
When Mr A called Nationwide to make the initial £488 payment to is solicitors, given the 
terms of Mr As account Im, satisfied the adviser was correct in saying that Mr A should 
make the payment using internet banking, and that he could go to his nearest branch to get 
a replacement card reader.
I note Mr A says that due to his vulnerabilities, Nationwide should have made the payment 
for him. But the available evidence Ive seen doesnt show that Nationwide should have been 
aware that Mr A was vulnerable prior to him calling them. And while Mr A told Nationwide he 
was shielding  due to the pandemic, theyve shown  from Mr As bank records, that he had 
visited a branch not long before he needed to make this payment. Given Mr A had been able 
to visit a branch previously, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for the adviser to decline 
to make the payment over the phone 
Nationwide have explained that the call disconnected due to an error at Nationwides end. 
They say it was the advisers intention to put Mr A on hold to log the complaint, but the call 
got disconnected instead. Overall, Ive not seen enough to persuade me that the adviser 
intentionally hung up the call. But I accept that this wouldve been frustrating for Mr A. To 
apologise Nationwide gave Mr A £50 compensation, and I think thats fair considering Im 
persuaded it was a genuine error and that Mr A was able to call back promptly and speak to 
another adviser.
Call two
Ive looked at Nationwides policy on what they classify as an emergency payment. 
Nationwide have confirmed that exceptions to their normal processes are considered on a 
case-by-case basis by the advisers. When the second call adviser considered Mr As 
circumstances, he felt the £488 payment wasnt considered high risk, and that it fell into the 
Covid-19 exception category. So, the adviser agreed to complete the payment on Mr As 
behalf. I can appreciate why Mr A thinks that as this advisor completed his transfer request, 
the first advisor did something wrong when they declined it. But from what Ive seen Im 
persuaded that each advisor is required to make their own judgement call as to whether the 
emergency criteria is met. And here, each advisor came to a different outcome based on 
their individual understanding and assessment of Mr As circumstances. So, Im satisfied 
Nationwide didnt do anything wrong here. 
Call three
Mr A called Nationwide again to make a second payment to his solicitors of £9,742. This was 
after he attempted to make the payment online first. He thought his solicitors were now set 
up as a payee on his account. However, Nationwide were still asking for his card reader 
details to complete the payment online. So, Ive again looked at Nationwides website and 
note it says you can Send money to someone youve paid before. You may occasionally be 
asked to use your card reader. This is for extra security. It helps us verify that its you making 
the payment. So, Im persuaded that its most likely that Mr As transaction needed extra 
security checks on this occasion because it was a substantial amount being transferred. So, 
Im satisfied that Nationwide didnt do anything wrong when the system required Mr A to use 
a card reader for this transaction.
Ive gone on to consider whether Nationwide acted unfairly when they didnt exercise the 
emergency criteria to enable them to do the transfer following telephone instructions. But 
while Im satisfied that Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably by making an exception for 
the first payment of £488, given the second payment was significantly bigger than this at 
£9,742, it was also fair and reasonable for Nationwide not to make an exception for the later payment due to security concerns and insisting a card reader was needed in certain 
circumstances.
Discrimination 
Mr A says Nationwide have discriminated against him due to his race, and thats why the first 
advisor hung up the phone as he didnt want to complete the payment for Mr A. Its not our 
role to consider if Nationwide breached the Equality Act 2010  that the matter for the courts. 
Our role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
In order to decide that, however, we have to take a number of things into account including
relevant law and what we consider to be good industry practice at the time. So, although its 
for the Courts to say whether or not Nationwide has breached the Equality Act 2010, were 
required to take the Equality Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other things 
when deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the evidence Nationwide has submitted demonstrates they did 
act in line with their processes. Therefore, Im persuaded that Nationwide treated Mr A fairly 
and in line with any other customer in the same circumstances. So, I wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anything further in relation to this aspect of the complaint.
Ive considered what Mr A says about how this has impacted him and how it left him feeling 
stressed and vulnerable. But Mr A wouldve had notice of when the payment needed to be 
made. So, I think he couldve done more to mitigate his losses and make arrangements for 
the payment prior to the day the funds were due  particularly, considering the previous 
difficulties he had making the initial payment to his solicitors. 
In any event, from looking at Mr As bank statements from the time, theres no evidence to 
show that Mr A made the second payment from his Nationwide account. This suggests to 
me that its most likely he made this payment by other means. Ive also taken into account 
that Mr A says he incurred a late payment fee from his solicitors of £420. H says this was 
due to the delays Nationwide caused by not executing the second payment for him. But 
despite asking Mr A for evidence of the late payment fee, he hasnt been able to provide us 
with anything to show this. Without evidence of the costs Mr A says he incurred, Im unable 
to consider this point further. 
Overall, I dont think Nationwide has treated Mr A unfairly. I know Mr A will be disappointed, 
but Im not going to ask Nationwide to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman