DRN-3732948
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) reported a default to his credit file
incorrectly, which meant that a mortgage application he made was rejected.
What happened
Mr M applied for a mortgage in November 2021. The application was rejected because of a
default which had been reported on Mr Ms credit file with an incorrect start date by BOS,
and which had meant the default was still present on Mr Ms credit file at a time when the six
year term that the default should have been reported for had ended. Mr M wasnt happy
about what had happened, so he raised a complaint.
BOS looked at Mr Ms complaint. They accepted theyd reported the default with an incorrect
start date, and they apologised to Mr M for this and agreed to correct his credit file. BOS also
made a payment of £350 to Mr M as compensation for loss or upset he may have incurred.
Unfortunately, BOS later repeated the incorrect credit file reporting, and they made further
distress and inconvenience compensation payments totalling £125 to Mr M because of this.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with BOSs response and didnt feel that the compensation BOS had
paid took full account of the loss hed incurred by not being granted the mortgage hed first
applied for. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that BOS
had already made to Mr Ms complaint, including the payments of compensation, already
represented a fair outcome to what had happened. Mr M remained dissatisfied, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 September 2022 as follows:
Mr M had provided documents and correspondence to this service which Im satisfied 
does in all likelihood demonstrate that the mortgage he applied for was declined 
solely on the basis of the incorrectly reported BOS default. These documents include 
correspondence from Mr Ms mortgage broker advising that the adverse credit 
reporting is the reason for the mortgage offer being withdrawn, as well as Mr Ms 
credit file, which shows no other adverse reporting which I feel would have negatively 
impacted his mortgage application.
Mr M has provided a copy of the mortgage illustration for the mortgage he wasnt 
ultimately granted, and this shows that Mr M would have been on fixed rate 
payments from December 2021 until February 2027 of £303.52. Mr M has also 
provided confirmation that, when the credit file reporting issues were initially 
resolved, he was able to obtain a mortgage with fixed monthly repayments of 
£312.13, which began in February 2022 and will end in February 2027. Mr M has 
also provided confirmation that he was making payments of £322 per month
to his mortgage up to February 2022, when he was able to successfully re-mortgage.
Based on the above, I calculate that amount that Mr M will pay in the period 
December 2021 to February 2027 as being £19,371.80. This is against the amount I 
calculate that he would have paid, had he been able to take the mortgage he applied 
for in November 2021, as being £18,818.24.
The difference between these two amounts is £553.56. And given that I feel that the 
reason Mr M wasnt granted the mortgage he applied for in November 2021 was 
most likely solely because of BOSs error, I dont feel its fair that Mr M should be 
expected to bear the additional cost of the mortgage he was later able to obtain.
BOS have already made compensation payments to Mr M totalling £475, but these
compensation payments were primarily for the trouble and upset that Mr M had 
incurred surrounding this matter. And while the letter detailing the first compensation 
payment of £350 made by BOS to Mr M, dated 3 December 2021, does reference 
that the amount was for both upset and inconvenience and also the financial impact 
of what had happened, given the emphasis on the upset and inconvenience in that 
letter I feel its reasonable to consider the majority of this £350 payment as being 
made for that upset and inconvenience.
All of which means I feel BOS should make a further payment to Mr M to cover the 
additional expense that hes incurred as a result of his not being granted the 
mortgage he applied for in November 2021. And in consideration of all the above, I 
feel that a further payment of £450 would fairly address this matter and provide a fair 
outcome to what has happened.
As such, my provisional decision is that Ill be upholding this complaint in Mr Ms 
favour and instructing BOS to make a further payment of £450 to him for the reasons 
explained above.
Both Mr M and BOS have confirmed that theyre happy to accept my provisional decision, 
although Mr M did explain that I had misunderstood the compensation payments that hed 
received and that only one payment of £350 had been received from BOS, and not 
payments totalling £475 as Id incorrectly outlined in my provisional decision.
Id like to apologise to Mr M and BOS for my misunderstanding. However, this 
misunderstanding doesnt affect the outcome reached in my provisional decision, as it was 
only the payment of £350 that I assessed as having any reference to losses incurred and 
which I took into consideration when provisionally instructing BOS to pay a further £450 to 
Mr M.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint in Mr Ms 
favour on the same basis as outlined in my provisional decision letter above, and I can 
confirm that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
BOS must make a further payment of £450 to Mr M.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc on the basis 
explained above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman