DRN-4463884
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy with what Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) did after she made a 
claim on her appliance insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs B has insurance with D&G which covers a number of appliances. In June 2023 she 
contacted it to book a repair for her fridge. D&G had difficulties in doing so; Mrs B says that 
was because its systems wouldnt recognise the model number of her fridge. After a number 
of calls a repair was booked the following day with a different repair agent. D&G offered to 
pay Mrs B £20 compensation for the stress and frustration shed been caused by the 
difficulties in booking a repair. 
Our investigator accepted Mrs B had been caused unnecessary frustration but thought the 
amount D&G had offered was enough to put things right. Mrs B didnt agree. She drew 
attention to the time wasted by D&G and the inconvenience it had caused. And she said 
further inconvenience had been caused as shed had to make a complaint to D&G and to our 
service. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say D&G has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Bs policy say to make a claim she should contact D&G 
either by phone or online. I understand she tried to do both. And its not in dispute there were 
issues with booking the repair that was needed. I agree that shouldnt have happened and I 
accept Mrs B had to make more calls than she should have done to resolve matters. 
Ive thought about the impact that had on her and whether the amount D&G has offered 
does enough to put things right. I dont doubt Mrs B will have been caused frustration and 
annoyance because a relatively simple repair booking couldnt be actioned at the outset. But 
Ive also taken into account the repair was booked the day after she called (albeit with a 
different repair agent). 
And I think its reasonable to say that making any claim (and a complaint following on from 
that) is of itself likely to cause some inconvenience to the individual concerned. I accept in 
this case that inconvenience went beyond what might reasonably be expected but, on 
balance, I think the compensation D&G has already offered does enough to put things right. 
My final decision
Domestic & General Insurance Plc has already offered to pay £20 to settle the complaint and 
I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances. So my decision is that D&G should pay Mrs B 
£20
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman