DRN-1504539
The complaint
Ms J complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt explain that tax might be deducted on surrender 
from the savings plan it sold her in 1979. 
What happened
In 1979 Ms J took out a long term savings plan and paid a monthly premium of £8 per 
month. The plan was a qualifying life assurance policy which meant that if Ms J kept the plan 
in force for ten years or more, the benefit would be paid to her free of income or capital gains 
tax liabilities. 
In 2019 Ms J surrendered the plan. The value of her plan was £15,785.45, but £1,274.46 
was deducted for corporate gains tax. This meant Ms J received £14,510.99 after paying in 
just over £3,800 over the life of the plan. The final statement sent to Ms J explained that:
Regarding Corporate Gains Tax (CGT), please be advised that as the law stands at present, 
the holder of shares in a fund like this is liable for tax on any gains made when the shares 
are sold. For the small investor, these gains are usually well within the annual capital gains 
tax allowance and so there is no tax to pay. 
However, under a policy like yours the legal holder of the shares is in fact the life insurance 
company []. Of course, the company cannot claim any personal tax allowances so it has to 
provide for the tax payable on any gains by making deductions from the policyholders 
proceeds, in other words from the value of your contract.
Ms J complained saying she was never told that such a deduction would be made when the 
plan was sold to her. Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong, so the complaint was 
referred to this service. 
The investigator looked into the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator acknowledged that Ms J didnt remember being told that CGT tax might be 
payable on surrender. But she explained that while there was insufficient evidence to decide, 
on balance, what Ms J may or may not have been told at the time, the documents she 
received explained that there might be a deduction for CGT to cover the administering firms 
liability for it  this included the statements of the plan which explained why a deduction for 
CGT might be payable on surrender. 
The investigator also considered that even if the potential for a deduction for tax hadnt been 
explained to Ms J, there were limited other alternatives at the time. And she said that Ms J 
had told her that even the tax situation had been explained in more detail, its likely she still 
wouldve taken out the same product. So the investigator concluded that it wouldnt be fair to 
ask Lloyds to do anymore. 
Ms J didnt agree with the investigator. She said that when the investigator asked for the key 
features document of the savings plan, Lloyds provided one that was published over 6 
months after she had invested. She said that Lloyds didnt highlight this  it was her that 
picked up on it and raised it with the investigator. And she said that if the investigator 
couldnt accept her claim that she wasnt given a key features document when the savings plan was sold to her, then it wasnt fair for the investigator to guess what was in an earlier 
version without having a copy of it  or in fact whether there was even one in circulation. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
I can see that Ms J feels very strongly that at the time the plan was sold to her she wasnt 
given all the information she thinks she was entitled to. Id like to start by explaining that Ive 
very carefully considered the detailed comments Ms J has provided. However, I hope she 
doesnt take it as a discourtesy that I dont reply to each individual point she has made  
thats not the purpose of my decision. The purpose of my decision is to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
This complaint concerns the advice Ms J received over 40 years ago. Frequently, in cases 
likes this, theres very little documentation or information about the original sale. And whilst I 
appreciate Ms J is adamant about what she was told at the time, it wouldnt be fair to only 
rely on her recollection from such a long time ago when making my decision. 
Where the evidence is contradictory and incomplete (as some of it is here), Ive based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I thinks most likely to have 
happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
In this case, its clear Ms J disputes ever receiving the key features document  and in any 
event, she considers the information on it to be misleading or unclear. 
But Im not persuaded thats likely. Instead, given my experience and broader industry 
practice, I think its more likely than not that at the time of the sale of this plan, Ms J was 
given a brochure or key features document which covered the basis of how the plan would 
work and the common features or commonly asked questions. And whilst I acknowledge the 
document which was provided to the investigator post-dated the investment by a few 
months, Im not persuaded this means I cant reasonably infer what an earlier version of this 
document might have said. I say this because:
This was not an unusual or atypical plan  its very unlikely there wouldve been 
substantial differences in how such a plan worked between the time Ms J took out 
the plan in April 1979 compared to when the document we do have on file was 
published in October 1979. 
I consider it unlikely that the issue in dispute (the payment of CGT) wouldve been 
explained any differently. 
In any event, the plan has worked in exactly the way it is described in the October 
1979 key features document, which leads me to conclude that it is an accurate 
description of the plan Ms J took out in April that year. 
 
So Im satisfied this means the key features document was probably given to Ms J at the 
time she took out this investment. And reading through it, Im satisfied it clearly explains why there might be a deduction for 
CGT. I appreciate Ms Js point  namely that theres a number of paragraphs that talk about 
the positive projections and what the investment might be worth at the end and a reference 
to the deduction for tax shouldve been contained on that same page. But even if I agreed 
with her, Im not persuaded it makes much of a difference. Ultimately the document ought to 
have been read in full  and the explanation around the deduction for tax is provided for in 
direct answer to the question will I have to pay Capital Gains Tax on the proceeds of my 
plan. So I think it was flagged up sufficiently clearly, and the explanation was unequivocal. 
As the investigator has pointed out, our role is to look at complaints and decide whats fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. So even if I thought all of Ms Js points were valid 
and ought to mean her complaint should be upheld, I would then need to consider what 
wouldve happened. 
And I agree with the investigator - there were very limited options at the time for tax efficient 
investments that wouldve entirely eliminated any possible tax deduction on encashment. 
And I'm persuaded that Ms J would've taken out the plan anyway. I say this especially as the 
adviser at the time, and the key features document, wouldnt have been able to quantify in 
advance how much the deduction would be as that would largely depend on the 
performance of the underlying investments. 
So even if I thought that Ms J was right, and things werent explained to her as well as they 
couldve been, asking Lloyds to refund this tax deduction would be unfair  because it would 
leave Ms J in a better position than she would otherwise have been.  
However, all that being said, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied Ms J would 
probably have received the information necessary to inform her at the time that a tax 
deduction from the plan on surrender may be payable. And so Im not persuaded this 
complaint should be upheld. Im therefore not asking Lloyds to take any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 February 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman