DRN-2499707
The complaint
Mr W complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy with a 
store card. Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken responsibility for this complaint, so Ill 
refer to Allianz in the rest of this decision.
What happened
Mr W took out the PPI policy when he applied for his store card in March 1994. Allianz said 
that Mr W filled in an application form for the card (and the PPI) in-store and no advice was 
given. Mr W agreed that the sale took place in store. He raised several complaint points but 
in summary he said he wasnt given a clear choice about taking the PPI (and indeed felt 
pressured to take it), wasnt given any information about it, and didnt need it.
The policy cost 64p per £100.00 owed. If Mr W had successfully claimed on the policy for 
accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it would have paid 15% of the store card 
balance outstanding when he stopped work until, if necessary, the balance was cleared. The 
policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr W disagreed, so the 
complaint has come to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website, and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Allianz sent us a copy of Mr Ws store card application form, along with copies of the card 
terms and conditions and PPI policy details from 1994. It did not have complete records of 
Mr Ws account  although this is not surprising as the account was closed in 2006 and 
businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely. However it was able to provide 
copies of Mr Ws statement entries from May 2000 until closure in April 2006. I note from 
these that no PPI premiums were charged during this period. Mr W did not tend to repay the 
monthly balance in full, so if PPI was still on the account I wouldve expected to see 
premiums being charged. As there were none it appears that the PPI had been cancelled at 
some point before May 2000.
I should also say at this point that Mr W has referred to a relatives complaint against Allianz 
having been upheld, saying that the circumstances were very similar. I have no knowledge 
of this other complaint, but in any case, complaints are decided based on individual 
circumstances, and my decision in this case is based on the evidence provided by Mr W and 
Allianz. 
Looking at the store card application form, there is a section headed payment protection, in 
which Mr W ticked a box to say that he wanted PPI, and completed his name and date of 
birth as the person insured. Theres nothing on the application form  or the terms and 
conditions - to suggest the PPI was compulsory.
Ive considered what Mr W said about completing the form with a salesperson, and feeling 
pressured to take the PPI. As the sale took place in a store, I cant know how the 
salesperson presented the PPI. Mr W also said that he inferred that he would not be 
successful in his application unless he completed the payment protection section of the 
form. However, he hasnt been able to give us a great deal of detail about what was said to 
make him feel pressured  although I accept that a detailed recollection is unlikely after 
some 27 years  and Im conscious that a perception of pressure may be quite subjective. 
So Ive also considered what we know about other Allianz sales at about the same time  but 
I havent seen any general issues regarding pressure being exerted in relation to PPI sales. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W said, but on balance, I dont think I can fairly say its 
most likely that he was pressured into taking the PPI and thus not given a choice about it, 
which is what Id have to do to be able to uphold the complaint on this point  I simply dont 
have enough evidence that this is what happened. 
Allianz said it didnt advise Mr W to take out the PPI, and from what Mr W has said about the 
sale Ive no reason to think thats incorrect. So it didnt have to make sure the policy was 
suitable for him. But it shouldve given him enough information to decide if the policy was 
right for him. 
From the evidence I have, I dont think Allianz clearly pointed out the main things the policy 
didnt cover. But I cant see that Mr W would have been affected by any of these. The 
application form included the cost of the policy - 64p per £100 owed - and referred to 
separate documents for more information. I dont think Mr W wouldve realised that he 
wouldve had to keep paying for the policy during a claim. And I dont think hed have 
realised the premium would be added to his store card balance and he could be charged 
interest on it.
Mr W told us that, at the time of the sale, he was employed and in good health. He also said 
that he was entitled to sick pay from his employer for 12 months, but he didnt say whether 
this would all have been at his full pay rate - which, in my experience, would have been 
unusual. Mr W also mentioned having had savings that he couldve relied on, and shares 
that he couldve sold if needed.
This is a finely balanced decision, but having considered all of the evidence and arguments 
in this case, I consider it more likely than not that Mr W would still have taken out the PPI 
had Allianz fully explained the terms and conditions. The policy provided useful benefits 
which would  notwithstanding the employment benefits and savings he mentioned  help 
him manage the consequences were he to be made redundant, or be unable to work 
through accident or disability. So on balance, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. This 
means Mr W isnt worse off as a result of what Allianz did wrong, so theres nothing it needs 
to do to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman