DRN-3879852
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the service she received from British Gas Insurance Limited under 
her HomeCare policy after she purchased a new boiler and water cylinder.
What happened
Mrs G holds a HomeCare policy with British Gas Insurance Limited  hereafter referred to as 
British Gas. 
At the end of July 2021, Mrs G asked British Gas to check her boiler and water cylinder. An 
engineer attended her home and recommended that she update her heating and hot water 
system, which would involve replacing the boiler and cylinder. They gave Mrs G an estimate 
of the cost this process would entail. 
Mrs G subsequently decided to purchase a new boiler and cylinder from British Gas. The 
boiler was delivered on 13 September 2021. But there were problems installing the boiler 
due to there being insufficient space in the cupboard within which it would be housed. This 
all resulted in the installation of the boiler being cancelled and delayed significantly.
On 21 October 2021, an engineer attended Mrs Gs home to attend to her cylinder. Mrs G 
thought the cylinder was leaking and pointed this out to the engineer. But they didnt agree. 
They thought instead that there was a safety issue with the plinth on which the cylinder sat. 
They said theyd instruct an agent to attend Mrs Gs property to repair the plinth, but this 
didnt happen until much later.
An engineer subsequently confirmed that the cylinder was leaking as Mrs G had thought. 
This was causing the plinth on which it was sat to collapse. So, on 3 November 2021, the 
cylinder was removed and a replacement was ordered.
The work to install the boiler was booked in for 4 and 5 November 2021. But when the new 
boiler was installed the replacement cylinder hadnt arrived. So, there was no cylinder to 
connect to the boiler. 
Mrs G was provided with a fan heater. But her heating and hot water wasnt restored until 17 
November 2021 when the replacement cylinder was delivered and installed. Mrs G said, 
during the time she was without hot water, she had to shower at her neighbours property, 
boil water to bathe and wash herself in a bucket. She complained about this to British Gas.
In her complaint, Mrs G also stated there had been multiple home visits from engineers, lots 
of aborted visits as well as many times where she was left waiting for calls that werent 
returned. Mrs G said that poor communication between British Gas and its engineers meant 
that it failed to adopt a collaborative approach, which led to delays in the installation process 
and meant the issues with the boiler and cylinder werent resolved as promptly as they ought 
to have been. She said her health was detrimentally affected and she suffered problems with 
the new water cylinder, which was replaced twice due to noise and a leak that caused water 
damage to her property.
Within its final response to Mrs Gs complaint, British Gas accepted that it had made errors 
and conceded it hadnt delivered good service under its Home Care policy. It offered to pay 
Mrs G £350 compensation in recognition of the distress and inconvenience shed suffered.
Mrs G declined British Gas offer and referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
assessed the information provided and recommended upholding this complaint. They 
werent persuaded that British Gas had dealt with Mrs Gs complaint fairly and they 
recommended it pay a further £650 compensation to reflect the impact of errors it had made. 
British Gas agreed with our investigators view of this complaint. But Mrs G didnt and asked 
for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive summarised the events of the complaint by way of an overview of what happened. I 
dont intend any discourtesy by this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive 
concentrated on what I think are the key issues and can assure Mrs G and British Gas that 
Ive read everything thats been sent. So, if Ive not mentioned something its not because I 
havent considered it. Its just that I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think 
is a fair and reasonable outcome.
Its clear that Mrs G feels very strongly about her complaint. I recognise that she feels let 
down by the service she received from British Gas. But, while I have sympathy with Mrs G, 
our service is impartial. We dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint, and we dont regulate or punish businesses. 
My role here is to assess whether I think British Gas made a mistake, or treated Mrs G 
unfairly, such that it needs to now put things right. So, Ive thought very carefully about what 
happened.
Ill explain at this stage that any concerns that Mrs G has shared with our service about the 
issues relating to the boiler and its installation arent issues this service can consider. This is 
because matters concerning the boiler are dealt with by an alternative dispute resolution 
provider, which I understand British Gas has already signposted Mrs G to. So, within this 
decision Im going to limit my findings to the service issues relating to the water cylinder, its 
replacement and the service Mrs G received under her Home Care policy.
Mrs G has provided a very detailed chronology to our service, which outlines the problems 
she experienced and the key dates involved. Im grateful to Mrs G for this document  its 
very helpful and I can see its taken her some time to draft.
From the chronology I can see that Mrs Gs initial experience with British Gas spanned from 
October 2021 to May 2022. During that time, an engineer missed an opportunity to identify a 
leaking cylinder, which led to delay in this being identified and remedied. I can also see that 
there were over 11 engineer visits, in addition to numerous visits that were aborted and 
postponed, during this 7 month period. 
It isnt clear why the aborted visits couldnt have been rearranged sooner. Ive seen evidence 
of multiple efforts on the part of Mrs G to chase British Gas for updates about when it might 
resolve the issues she was experiencing with her cylinder or when she may expect another 
engineer to visit. I think better and collaborative communication between British Gas and its 
engineers could have improved the experience for Mrs G here.After the new cylinder was installed Mrs G continued to experience problems, which 
protracted matters by around 3 months. Her property was damaged due to an escape of 
water from a leaking cylinder and the new cylinder had to be replaced twice. 
I understand that British Gas has undertaken reinstatement work to restore Mrs Gs home to 
the condition it was in prior to the escape of water taking place. However, while that issue 
has been resolved I recognise that the issues with the replacement cylinder are bound to 
have resulted in Mrs G experiencing additional distress and inconvenience.
Mrs G has told our service shes an elderly female living alone. I accept that and, based on 
what shes said, I think British Gas ought to have recognised her as a vulnerable customer. 
However, from the chronology Ive seen, Im not persuaded that British Gas prioritised visits 
to Mrs Gs home or dealt with her concerns in a manner that was proactive given her 
vulnerability and poor health. Had it done so, I think the issues with Mrs Gs heating and hot 
water could have been resolved at any earlier opportunity. This would have minimised the 
resulting stress this is bound to have this caused.
Mrs G found herself without heating at times and without hot water for around 14 days, 
through no fault of her own, at a time when outside temperatures were falling. This resulted 
in her having to shower at her neighbours home, boil water to bathe and use a bucket to 
wash herself. I have no doubt that this was deeply upsetting and frustrating. This experience 
is bound to have exacerbated the distress that Mrs G would have felt at that time.
Mrs G said the issues she experienced impacted detrimentally on her health. Its clear from 
the information Ive seen that Mrs Gs health deteriorated significantly at the end November 
2021, which was just under 2 weeks after her heating and hot water had been restored. I 
also can see that she had to undergo surgery in January 2022, which was when she was 
experiencing problems with the replacement water cylinder. I accept that this was all very 
stressful. But I havent seen any evidence that establishes to what extent the service issues 
impacted on Mrs Gs health or contributed to any decline. 
Its clear that Mrs G feels the service she received fell far short of what she expected from 
British Gas. As Ive already explained, British Gas accepts there were elements of poor 
service and its conceded that a compensation award is appropriate to recognise that. 
In recognition of the trouble and upset Mrs G was caused British Gas offered her £350 
compensation. Its clear Mrs G doesnt feel that fairly reflects her experience. With that in 
mind, Ive thought carefully about what a fair offer to put things right looks like here.
Our investigator recommended British Gas pay further compensation of £650  bringing the 
total award to £1000. But Mrs G feels this recommendation is unfair and disproportionate. 
While I hear what she has said about that Ive already mentioned that we arent here to 
punish businesses. When our service considers an award of compensation, we look at the 
impact of a business mistake on the consumer.
Ive already explained where I think errors were made and, having taken Mrs Gs experience 
as a whole into account, Im not persuaded the compensation already offered adequately 
recognises the distress and inconvenience that would have been caused here. Mrs G 
describes her experience as a 10 month nightmare and I think thats a fair reflection as to 
how she felt. 
This all happened over a prolonged period of time, during which there were multiple 
engineer visits, aborted visits and repeated efforts on Mrs Gs part to chase updates. She 
was without heating on occasion and no hot water for two weeks during periods of cold weather while she was suffering poor health. She also encountered problems with the 
replacement cylinder including resultant damage to her property. This all served to protract 
the experience for Mrs G and it compounded the trouble and upset caused. 
Like our investigator I dont think British Gas did enough to resolve Mrs Gs complaint and 
the £350 compensation it offered doesnt reflect the gravity of what happened here. In the 
overall circumstances, Im satisfied the additional £650 compensation award recommended 
by our investigator is a reasonable amount that fairly recognises the impact the errors and 
service issues had on Mrs G. This takes the overall award to £1000, which is in line with 
awards made by this service in comparable circumstances. 
I understand that Mrs G is seeking an overall compensation award of £3000. However, the 
compensation recommended by our investigator is what I would have told British Gas to pay 
had an award not been suggested already. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs G but I havent seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that a higher compensation award is merited. So, Im not 
direct British Gas to pay more than the compensation recommended by our investigator. 
Mrs G said she didnt receive the £350 compensation British Gas offered to resolve her 
complaint. So, Im directing British Gas to pay Mrs G a total of £1000 compensation, which 
includes the offer made, but not paid, previously. 
  
I realise Mrs G will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with British Gas informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant 
help Mrs G any further with this complaint.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint British Gas should pay Mrs G £1000 compensation (inclusive of 
the previous offer) for the distress and inconvenience she experienced as a result of its 
errors and poor service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. British Gas Insurance Limited should pay 
Mrs G £1000 (inclusive of the previous offer) in compensation to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman