DRN-3138588
The complaint
Mr C complains about a transfer from his Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited personal 
pension to a small self-administered scheme (SSAS) in 2014. Mr C says Aviva failed in its 
responsibilities to warn him the transfer could be a scam. 
What happened
Mr C received advice to transfer two personal pensions into a SSAS. And so, he has brought 
two complaints to our service against both ceding schemes. Our rules allow for me to 
investigate the complaints together. I will however, issue separate determinations for each of 
the respondent businesses. This decision focuses on the actions of Aviva. I will refer to the 
other ceding scheme as Firm B in this decision.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties and as such I have only
summarised them below.
Mr C says he had received unregulated advice to transfer two of his personal 
pensions into a newly created SSAS with Rowanmoor.
One of Mr Cs personal pensions was held with Aviva and so in March 2014, Aviva 
transferred Mr Cs funds to the SSAS. 
Once in the SSAS Mr C invested his funds into unregulated investments which later 
failed, causing him a financial loss. 
In March 2020 Mr C complained to Aviva via a professional representative. He said 
Aviva had failed to see the warning signs that his transfer was potentially a scam. He 
said Aviva should have contacted him to make him aware of the risks, which would 
have stopped him from going ahead with the transfer.
In their response Aviva said theyd issued a Scorpion leaflet in one of their letters to 
Mr C, which explained the risks of transferring a pension to a third party. They also 
said it wasnt their responsibility to assess the suitability of Mr Cs investments.
Mr C disputes that he was ever sent the Scorpion leaflet as he does not recall ever 
receiving it and it isnt mentioned in Avivas letters. He also feels Aviva were obliged 
to contact him as there were several warning signs in Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time that he could potentially be a victim of a scam.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint, as he thought it was likely Mr C had 
received the Scorpion leaflet, either from Aviva or Firm B who also claim to have sent it. But 
even if he hadnt received it, our investigator didnt think the leaflet would have caused Mr C 
to stop the transfer, as his case didnt fit the criteria of a scam.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators opinion and so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C, via his representatives, provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which 
Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact my findings focus 
on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by Mr C and Aviva, and reach what I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
What were Avivas responsibilities?
As a regulated firm, Aviva have to adhere to various principles and rules which are contained 
within the regulators handbook. 
These include, but arent limited to, the conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) and the 
principles of business (PRIN).
In summary the most relevant rules for this complaint said that businesses needed to act 
honestly and fairly. They needed to pay regard to the interest of their customers, their 
communication needs and act with due care, skill, and diligence.  
In February 2013 The Pensions Regulator also issued guidance to raise awareness of 
pension liberation activity under the Scorpion campaign. Pension liberation is a term 
generally used when consumers attempt to access their pension early or in unauthorised 
ways.
The campaign introduced scheme administrators to an action pack which highlighted the 
warning signs of pension liberation. If warning signs applied, the pack provided a checklist 
schemes could use to better establish the risk of liberation. The campaign also asked that 
schemes sent a Scorpion leaflet to their members following a transfer request. Which could 
be followed up by a more in-depth leaflet including case studies if required.  
The scorpion leaflets
Mr C disputes that he was sent the Scorpion leaflet when he gave authority for a third-party 
to contact Aviva and receive information about his personal pension. Aviva say that they 
included the leaflet in their response letter. Firm B also claim that they sent the scorpion 
leaflet to Mr C around the same time. However, neither Aviva nor Firm B have been able to 
provide any compelling evidence that it was sent.
While this might come as a disappointment to Mr C, I dont think I need to make a finding on 
whether Aviva did in fact send the leaflet or not. As I dont think the leaflet, had Mr C 
received and read it, would have alerted him to any potential problems. Ill explain why. 
The first action pack and scorpion campaign documents sent from February 2013 were 
heavily geared towards preventing liberation of a pension. So, it warned people of the 
dangers of accessing a pension before the age of 55.   
The leaflet set out four things to look out for. These were;
Being approached out of the blue over the phone or via text messagePushy advisers or introducers who offer upfront cash incentives
Companies that offer a loan, saving advance or cash back from your pension
Not being informed about the potential tax consequences
Although Mr C was under the age of 55 at the time, I havent seen any evidence that he was 
attempting to access his benefits early or had been told he could do so. Mr Cs motivation for 
making the transfer seems to have been to make an overseas investment which was 
recommended by a third party. However, at that time, the leaflet didnt cover the potential 
dangers of such an investment.
Mr C says he was originally cold called by a resort provider who later introduced him to the 
third party who provided him with unregulated advice. And cold calling is one of the points 
the leaflet highlights for people to watch out for. But the leaflet up until that point, and after, 
was focused on pension liberation  which didnt apply to Mr C. So, I dont think pointing out 
cold calling as a warning sign alone would have given him cause for concern. 
It wasnt until later versions that the Scorpion leaflet contained more general warnings about 
scams. The next version of the leaflet was sent from July 2014, which was after Mr C had 
transferred his pension. So for the reasons Ive given, even if Mr C had received and read 
the Scorpion leaflet, I dont think it would have caused him to take any action. 
The scorpion action pack and Avivas regulatory obligations. 
Sending the Scorpion leaflet wasnt the only action businesses had to take. The action pack 
asked schemes to consider whether they should contact consumers to warn them about 
pension liberation and delay the transfer if required. And Aviva had other obligations more 
generally, to act in Mr Cs best interest and provide him with clear and accurate information.
The action pack sent to firms in February 2013 was again heavily geared towards pension 
liberation fraud. And Page 8 of the pack set out things to look out for which was entitled 
looking out for liberation fraud. While Mr Cs representatives have pointed out there were 
several factors present in Mr Cs transfer  such as the scheme only recently being set up, 
the involvement of unregulated parties and cold calling  the aim of the action pack, at that 
time, was for schemes to look out for liberation fraud. It was only later this was broadened to 
look more generally at scams. 
The action pack itself wasnt entirely clear if businesses like Aviva were supposed to 
interrogate every transfer. It asked businesses to contact consumers if they had concerns. 
So, I think its fair to say businesses had to find a balance between delaying every transfer or 
exercising reasonable judgement on transfers which seemed to be at risk of liberation.  
I think in this case Aviva would have been reassured by the fact the SSAS was being 
provided by Rowanmoor who were a well-established UK provider of SSASs and SIPPs 
(which were regulated by the FCA). Rowanmoor were also acting as a professional trustee 
of Mr Cs SSAS, so had their own obligations regarding the investments being made which 
would have added credibility to this arrangement.
Even if Aviva had contacted Mr C to ask further questions as the action pack suggested they 
might consider, their objective would have been to establish if he was in danger of liberating 
his funds. Simply asking Mr C if hed been told he could access his funds early or if he was 
receiving any incentives from transferring, could have been enough to satisfy any concerns. 
And I dont think that would have caused Mr C to look more generally at the advice he was 
receiving.  
I think its important to note here that even if I think Aviva could have done more, I need to be satisfied that, on balance, Mr C would have stopped the transfer. 
Around the same time, in April 2014, Firm B sent Mr C a questionnaire following his request 
to transfer the pension he held with them. This was part of their due diligence process. In the 
questionnaire, Mr C recorded in his own words that he wanted to transfer his pension as it 
gave him greater investment choice and as a company director, he was able to join as a 
trustee of the occupational scheme. He also confirmed that he was aware he couldnt access 
his funds until the age of 55 and attached details of the scheme including the deed of 
amendment.
Aviva didnt complete an additional step in contacting Mr C to ask some further questions 
about the transfer as Firm B did. But the questionnaire Firm B sent didnt make Mr C 
question the suitability of the advice hed been given or stop him from transferring his 
pension from Firm B. So, I think its unlikely further contact from Aviva would have done 
either.    
Mr Cs pension wasnt being liberated and this type of transfer was relatively common at the 
time. The receiving scheme for the transfer request was a well-established SSAS provider in 
the UK. So, considering the full circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Aviva needed to 
do more to establish if Mr Cs pension was likely being liberated. 
The purpose of the Scorpion campaign wasnt to ask pension providers to consider the 
suitability of any advice consumers had been given. And Mr C had a statutory right to 
transfer his pension. 
Im sorry that Mr C ended up in the position that he did, but I think that was a result of being 
convinced to make an investment that may have been unsuitable. And the safeguards that 
Aviva should have had in place at the time wouldnt, on balance, have prevented the 
outcome.
My final decision
My final decision is, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman