DRN-3011803
The complaint
Mr A complains that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV has withdrawn his 
healthcare policy from the market.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator, and for these 
reasons:
The policy terms confirm the policy is an annual one, and that CIGNA may offer the 
member the chance to renew each year. They also say that CIGNA may not offer 
renewal if theres an event that prevents it from continuing to provide the policy.
Mr As cover usually renews in June each year. However, CIGNA chose not to offer 
him renewal for the 2020/21 policy year.
The reason for that is because CIGNA made the decision to withdraw cover for all its 
health insurance policies, as it has chosen to exit the health insurance market. Thats 
a commercial decision in which I cant interfere. 
As CIGNA has made a commercial decision to exit the healthcare market, this event 
prevents it from continuing to provide the policy. Im satisfied that CIGNAs decision 
not to offer Mr A renewal in 2020 was therefore in line with the policy terms and 
conditions.  
I note that CIGNA told Mr A in December 2019 that it wouldnt be offering him the 
chance to renew in June 2020, and then reminded him of this in April 2020. I think 
this was sufficient notice for Mr A to take out another policy before his cover with 
CIGNA ended.
Mr A says the policy was to continue until he reached age 70 or on his death, and so 
he thought hed have the cover for life. As hes not yet reached age 70, he thinks 
CIGNA need to continue to offer the cover until he reaches that age. Im afraid I 
disagree. As Ive said, the insurance contract renewed each year. That meant, 
effectively, that a new policy started each year and CIGNA was entitled not to offer 
renewal, as Ive explained above. 
Although Mr A would like CIGNA to return the premiums hes paid since taking out 
the policy, I dont require it to do so. CIGNA was on risk to pay any valid claims made 
by Mr A during that period, and so Mr A had the benefit of the cover whilst it was in 
place. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman