DRN-4065339
The complaint
A charity which Ill call R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) 
threatened to close their account unless they provided updated verification information. 
The complaint is brought on Rs behalf by one of their trustees, Mr W.
What happened
R holds a bank account with NatWest. In December 2022, the bank wrote to R and asked 
the charity to provide a completed Trust Lawyer or Accountant letter which it required as part 
of its customer verification documents. 
R didnt think it was fair of NatWest to ask for this document as the charity would incur costs 
to get it completed. So they made a complaint.  
NatWest didnt uphold the complaint. It said that it had carried out a review of Rs account 
and identified that this information was missing, so to ensure it was compliant with its 
regulatory obligations, the bank needed R to provide this. NatWest also said that as the 
letter was required as part of the review it wouldnt be covering the costs of obtaining this, 
and if it wasnt received Rs account could be restricted as part of the banks Due Diligence 
process.   
R didnt think this was fair. They said the obligation was on NatWest to comply with the 
regulations, not them as the charity and it wasnt reasonable to use the charitys money to 
cover the costs or provide confidential information on their trustees. R thought that NatWest 
should accept the information the trustees had provided or compensate them for providing 
this. So R asked this service to look into their complaint.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that NatWest had legal 
and regulatory obligations to meet, and she was satisfied that the bank was fulfilling its 
obligations when it had requested the information it was missing from R. She also said 
NatWest was able to block the account in line with its terms and it wasnt obligated to pay 
Rs costs  that was for the charity to cover if it wished to continue holding their account with 
the bank. However, she asked the bank to allow a further month for R to provide the 
information before taking any further action.  
R didnt agree. It maintained that it would be acting illegally by providing the information and 
spending the charitys money to meet NatWests request. They felt that restricting the 
charities money and issuing a cheque that would be difficult to cash was the equivalent of 
theft and asked that an ombudsman review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. R says that NatWest has treated them unfairly by restricting their account as a 
result of its customer information review. But I dont agree. NatWest has legal and regulatory 
obligations to ensure that it has sufficient knowledge of its customers, and that it is also 
protecting its customers adequately. Ive seen that NatWest wrote to R three times over a 
two-month period and also spoke to Rs trustee on to several occasions during that period to 
obtain the outstanding information it needed - but it didnt receive this. As the bank wasnt 
satisfied it could meet its regulatory obligations, it gave R warning that it would restrict their 
account which I think was fair.
R says that NatWests request is illegal, and they are concerned that the bank will keep the 
charities funds if it doesnt comply, but I havent seen any evidence thats the case. NatWest 
has discretion on how it complies with its regulatory obligations, it doesnt have to explain 
why or how it has interpreted those obligations. And I would only intervene with NatWests 
interpretation of its obligations if I thought it had behaved unfairly or unreasonably  and I 
dont think it has done so here. From what I have seen, the bank has simply requested 
information about the charitys trustees which it needs to be verified by an independent party 
- I think this is reasonable. 
Furthermore, the terms of Rs account say that NatWest can close the account immediately 
and without notice if it believes that keeping the account open would involve it breaking a 
law, regulation, or obligation that it is required to meet. In this case, NatWest has said that if 
the information it requires isnt received, it will close Rs account and issue a cheque for the 
available balance as it cant confirm it has met its obligations. So I dont think the bank has 
acted unfairly. Its also worth noting that NatWest has the option to close an account in the 
same way a customer can move their account elsewhere should they chose to do so. 
Ultimately, its the choice of Rs trustees to decide whether or not its in the charitys best 
interests to pay the required fee to obtain the information NatWest requires - or open an 
account elsewhere where it can then credit the cheque issued by the bank for the charity 
funds. NatWest isnt required to pay for the information it needs to comply with any 
regulatory obligations  thats the responsibility of the party who wants to hold an account 
with the bank. So I dont think NatWest has done anything wrong by declining Rs request to 
cover the costs of obtaining this information. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman