DRN-3705264
The complaint
Mr E complains HSBC UK Bank Plc carried out a credit search during an application for a 
current account.
 
What happened
Mr E applied for an HSBC current account online. Mr E was unhappy that HSBC had 
recorded a search of his credit file because they hadnt described the credit search they 
intended to do as part of the application as a hard search. He complained to HSBC and 
asked that they remove the search from his credit file. 
HSBC responded to Mr Es complaint to say it was made clear during the application 
process that a credit search would be carried out. 
Mr E wasnt happy with this response so referred his complaint to our service. An 
Investigator considered what had happened. He said, in summary, he thought HSBC had 
made it clear on their website and during the application process, a credit search would be 
carried out and he didnt think it mattered they hadnt described this as a hard search. 
Mr E didnt accept the Investigators view. He said hed made a number of applications with 
other banks and all of them had specified a hard search would be carried out. He also 
provided a screenshot showing HSBC referring to hard and soft searches on their website.
 
As Mr E didnt agree, the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that the credit search wasnt described as a hard search. So Ive 
considered what information Mr E was given during his application to decide whether HSBC 
treated him fairly.
 
Before beginning the application on HSBCs website it says:
You can apply for an HSBC Bank Account if youare happy for us to do a credit check 
against your name
So Im satisfied that a credit check wouldve been mentioned before Mr E began his 
application. 
HSBC has provided a screenshot of the relevant part of their current account application 
process. Under the heading Credit reference agencies (CRA) information it says Well 
search and share your information with CRAs and A record of our search will be held with 
the CRAs. So I think HSBC made it clear that they would conduct a search and that search 
would be recorded on Mr Es credit file. I dont think it matters that the word hard wasnt 
used in this description, since it was clear that the search would be recorded on Mr Es credit 
file. 
On the same page  in order to continue with the application  applicants are required to tick 
a box to confirm theyve read all the information and agree to the terms and conditions of the 
account. Mr E must have ticked this box in order for the application to have been processed. 
So Im satisfied he agreed to the credit search being carried out by doing so. 
I can understand why Mr E thinks its unhelpful for HSBC not to refer to credit searches in the 
same terms as all the other financial businesses hes approached. But I dont think HSBC 
have an obligation to do so. Mr E has provided evidence that HSBC refers to hard and soft 
searches elsewhere on their website. Mr E says current accounts arent listed on this page 
as a product that may require a hard search. But the information on this page seems to be 
general and unlikely to be exhaustive. I say this because it refers to the lender and not 
HSBC specifically. So I dont think this means HSBC did something wrong. Im still satisfied, 
for the reasons set out above, HSBC had made it clear a search would be recorded on 
Mr Es credit file during his application. 
Mr E was also unhappy that his date of birth had been recorded incorrectly. But as the 
application was made online, it seems likely Mr E entered the information on there himself. 
And, in any event, I dont think this makes a difference to whether HSBC made a mistake in 
relation to the credit search. 
 
Overall, I find HSBC treated Mr E fairly in carrying out and recording the credit search. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman