DRN-3644348
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that he couldnt cancel a fixed sum loan agreement he took out with 
Specialist Lending Limited trading as Duologi, to fund an online educational course for his 
children with a supplier Ill call E.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr S brought an online educational course from E for his children. He told us 
he was visited at home by Es salesperson and was told it was a pay as you go course that 
could be cancelled at any time. Mr S told us his children used the course for several months. 
But around March 2019, Mr S got in touch with E saying his children felt the content was too 
old and they didnt understand what they were being told. He stopped his payments and 
asked E for a refund. 
E replied saying Mr S had signed all the relevant paperwork and it didnt agree with the 
concerns hed raised. E told him to contact Duologi about the finance arrangement. Mr S had 
already been in touch with Duologi. Thered been various communications between all three 
parties, but no resolution was agreed. 
Then, in October 2020, Mr S got back in touch with Duologi after receiving an arrears notice. 
Briefly, it told him that the loan agreement could only be cancelled within the first 14 days 
and, as hed asked to end it outside of this period, he wasnt eligible to cancel.
 
Mr S wasnt happy with this. So, he brought his complaint to our service where it was looked 
at by one of our investigators. In brief, she didnt think Mr S would have entered into the 
agreement if hed understood it was a loan agreement that couldnt be cancelled at any time. 
Our investigator set out that Duologi should now cancel the agreement, remove any adverse 
information from Mr Ss credit file, and give him a refund of the deposit hed paid.
 
Duologi didnt accept our investigators view. It said it considered the sales paperwork to be 
clear and transparent. Duologi also pointed to different disputes our service had looked at 
where wed reached a different outcome.
 
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold it. Ill explain why. But first, Im very aware Ive 
summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has been provided, and largely in 
my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think is at 
the heart of the matter here: is it fair and reasonable for Duologi not to cancel Mr Ss loan 
agreement?
 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every 
individual detail. Ive focussed on the details that are central to me reaching what I think is 
the right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. 
Ill now turn to Duologis comments about our service reaching different outcomes on similar 
disputes. While cases my seem similar on the surface, they are often important differences 
that may not be apparent from the outside  and these differences can be what determines 
the outcome of a particular case. Im required to reach my decision based on the individual 
circumstances of a case. Thats what Ive done here.
 
Mr S paid for the educational course through a fixed sum loan agreement from Duologi. 
Section S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA 1974) sets out that in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, Duologi is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier, E. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here.
 
Also, Section 56 of the CCA 1974 has the effect of making E an agent of Duologi during the 
antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr S entering into the loan agreement. This means 
Duologi can be held responsible for the things E said or didnt say, and what it did or didnt 
do during the sales process. This would include all the discussions Mr S had with Es 
salesperson on the day he agreed to buy the course.
 
Mr S is unhappy that he wasnt allowed to cancel the course when, after his children had 
used it for several months, they werent happy with the content and couldnt understand what 
they were being told. Mr S says he was told by Es salesperson that it was a pay as you go 
arrangement that he could cancel at any time.
 
Its not disputed that the terms of the loan agreement state Mr S could cancel it within 14 
days of the loan being made, but after that it was a non-cancellable contract. He told us if 
hed known he was entering into an agreement that hed have to continue to pay for four 
years, he never would have purchased the course. So, Im satisfied the key issues I have to 
think about is whether the course and agreement were misrepresented to him by E.
 
Duologis position is that the sales paperwork Mr S completed is clear and transparent. I 
agree that the documents signed by Mr S should be taken into account  and Ive done this. 
Ive looked at the relevant documents to see if it was reasonable for him to think he would be 
paying for the course on a pay as you go basis.
 
While Ive looked at the documents signed by Mr S, Ive also taken into account the 
salespersons responsibilities to provide clear information to enable him to make an informed 
choice before he agreed to sign up to the course. Also, I dont think the loan agreement is 
necessarily always an accurate description of the conversations that took place before the 
contract started. What was said in these discussions is key to if Mr S was misled about 
entering into the loan agreement. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has set out what it expects a responsible credit 
broker to do when arranging a loan. This is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). As the lender, these regulations and guidance dont apply to Duologi directly. But I 
think E was acting as a credit broker by arranging the loan agreement on behalf of Duologi. 
So, Ive taken this into account.
 
I wont go in to detail here about the provisions of CONC other than to say that it sets out 
that Es salesperson had a duty to ensure Mr S had enough information about the loan 
agreement before he agreed to enter into it to buy the course.
 The Customer Clarification and Satisfaction Form signed by Mr S refers to purchasing a 
Lifetime Licence and uses the generic term Finance throughout, rather than loan. I accept 
the words loan and finance are used interchangeably in the lending industry, but I think 
its understandable that a lay person may not have understood they were entering a loan 
agreement. In any event, Mr S says he was told he could cancel the agreement at any time. 
He told us that the salesperson said that taking the loan over a longer period would make his 
payments cheaper than a pay as you go option - but Mr S wanted an arrangement he could 
come out of anytime. He said he chose a more expensive payment amount which he says 
he understood was a pay as you go agreement. As the agreement was on an interest only 
basis, it wouldnt have cost him anything extra to take the loan over a longer term, with lower 
payments.
 
On balance, it seems unlikely to me that he wouldnt have taken this cheaper option unless 
he was led to believe that by paying a higher amount, he was getting something different, 
such as a pay as you go agreement. Ive found Mr Ss testimony to be consistent and 
credible on this point.
 
Ive also thought about Mr Ss personal situation at the time of Es visit. I can see he told 
Duologi that he wanted extra tuition for his five children. At that time, their ages ranged from 
five to twelve years old. Again, on balance, I think it would be very unusual for a parent to 
commit to arrangement lasting for four years given how much the needs of his children were 
likely to develop and differ over that time.
 
Taking all the above into account, Im satisfied Mr S wouldnt have gone ahead with a four-
year loan agreement if it had been made clear to him he could only cancel it within the first 
14 days and, after that, he would still have to make the repayments even if the course didnt 
help his children and wasnt being used.
 
For completeness, I know Mr S has also: expressed his dissatisfaction over the quality of the 
course But, the evidence supplied isnt enough for me to conclude that it wasnt of sufficient 
quality for there to be a breach of contract.
 
Also, Mr S has claimed this was a scam; and, denied having an agreement with Duologi. I 
can understand why Mr S might feel like this. It was E who sold the course to Mr S, and it 
was E he dealt with its administration. Also, the majority of the initial paperwork was also 
from E rather than Duologi. So, I think it was natural for him to be very wary when he 
received request for outstanding payments from Duologi when nearly all his dealings had 
been with E.
 
Im also satisfied Mr S understood he was entering into some kind of financial arrangement, 
but that he understood this was a pay as you go, subscription style service with E, rather 
than a four-year fixed sum loan agreement with Duologi.
 
In any event, as above, Im satisfied Mr S wouldnt have entered into the agreement if it had 
been made clear to him it was a four-year loan agreement that could only be cancelled 
within the first 14 days. So, Ive set out below what Duologi needs to do to resolve things
Putting things right
Mr S says his children used the course for several months. This is consistent with him 
making payments until early 2019 before he stopped and told E he wanted to cancel. So, I 
think its fair he pays for this use. Im satisfied the payments he made until early 2019 are a 
reasonable charge for this.
 To put things right Duologi should: 
End the agreement and remove any adverse information relating to it from Mr Ss 
credit file; 
Refund Mr Ss £80 deposit. It should also pay 8% annual simple interest on this 
amount on this amount from the date the payment was made until the date of the 
refund; 
Waive any outstanding payments due; and 
Cancel Mr Ss access to the course and collect any relevant course equipment and 
materials at no cost to him. If Duologi has no interest in collecting these, it should tell 
this to Mr S. 
If Duologi thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the 
interest noted above, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that Specialist Lending Limited must take the action Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022. 
John Miles
Ombudsman