DRN-4227316
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the fact that Ageas Insurance Limited are pursuing him for 
recovery of the amount they paid to a third party to settle a claim against his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr S allowed his sister, who Ill refer to as Ms N, to drive his car thinking she was legally 
insured to drive it under her own car insurance policy. She had an accident in it in which she 
caused damage to a third party vehicle. The third party claimed against Mr Ss policy through 
a representative. Initially, Ageas refused the claim and directed the representative to Ms Ns 
insurer. But they established Ms N was not insured to drive other cars under her policy. So 
they settled the third partys claim. They then asked Mr S to reimburse their outlay.
Mr S complained to Ageas. He said they hadnt let him know they were going to settle the 
claim and he felt they hadnt investigated it properly. Ageas didnt uphold his complaint and 
maintained they were entitled to recover their outlay from him. 
Mr N complained to us and one of our investigators considered his complaint. He said it 
should be upheld and that Ageas should not pursue Mr S for their outlay. Ageas didnt agree. 
They provided a letter from a solicitor. They seemed to think this explained why theyre 
entitled to recover their outlay. Our investigator then sent out a second view on the complaint 
in which he explained why he still thought Ageas shouldnt pursue reimbursement of their 
outlay. Ageas didnt respond to this, so the investigator passed the complaint to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read the letter from Ageass solicitor. This seems to focus more on Ageass right to 
recover their outlay from Ms N, as opposed to recovering it from Mr S. It even acknowledges 
that no right of recovery exists against Mr S as a result of Ageass Road Traffic Act 
obligations. 
It's clear Ageas settled the third party claim because they knew if they obtained a judgement 
against Ms N as the driver of Mr Ss car, theyd be legally obliged to settle the judgement. 
So, to avoid the extra costs that could be incurred if the matter went to court, they offered 
what appears to have been a reasonable settlement to the third partys representatives. 
However, despite trying to contact Mr S by phone and writing to him about settling the third 
partys claim, Ageas actually never told him they were going to recover what they paid from 
him. And they didnt even ask him to sign a consent and indemnity form, which would have 
given them the right to takeover and settle the third partys claim on his behalf and recover 
their outlay from him. 
Ageas have suggested they have a right to recover damages, ie their outlay from Mr S, for 
breach of contract, as he let Ms N drive his car and this went against the terms of his policy. 
But Ive checked Mr Ss policy and I cant see he has breached any of its conditions in letting 
Ms N drive his car thinking she was insured to do so under her own policy. 
In the circumstances, Ageas never actually told Mr S they were intending to recover from 
him or asked for his permission to take over and settle the third party claim. And because 
they havent persuaded me they have a legal right to do so, I think the fair and reasonable 
outcome to this complaint is for me to direct Ageas not to recover their outlay from Mr S. I 
should however make it clear that if Ageas had made it clear to Mr S that they intended to 
settle the third party claim and asked for his permission to do so, I may have taken a 
different view.
It may be that Ageas has a legal right to recover their outlay from Ms N, but I have not 
considered this issue.  
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I dont consider Ageas should continue their attempts to 
recover their outlay of what they paid on the claim against Mr Ss policy from Mr S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct 
Ageas Insurance Limited not to recover their outlay on the abovementioned claim from him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman