DRN-2159391
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) in 2003 in one of the
banks branches when they were re-mortgaging. The plan offered life and critical illness 
insurance as well as PPI. They selected PPI for Mr C and life cover for both Mr and Mrs C. 
The PPI gave Mr C accident, sickness and unemployment protection. This complaint looks 
solely at the sale of the PPI. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely given the available 
evidence and the what we know about how Halifax sold PPI at the time.
Our general approach to complaints about PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C say they only agreed to PPI as they trusted the banks advice. Halifax hasnt 
got all the paperwork from the sale. But this isnt surprising as it was so long ago. Based on 
what we know about the banks sales process at the time, I think its most likely Mr and 
Mrs C completed a TMPP application form selecting which elements of the cover they 
wanted, after discussion with the bank. I say this as Halifax has provided samples of the 
documents it used when selling TMPP at this time. I cant find enough evidence to conclude 
that it didnt follow its standard sales process here. Overall, I think it's most likely Halifax 
made it clear Mr and Mrs C had a choice about PPI - and they opted to take it out for Mr C.
 
As theyve said Halifax recommended the PPI for Mr C to them so it had to make sure it was 
suitable. And overall, I think the PPI seems to have been right for Mr C based on what Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr C said he was entitled to six months full pay if he 
was sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this for each successful accident and 
sickness claim for up to 24 months. It also gave him up to 24 months redundancy cover  
again this would have paid out in addition to any work redundancy payment giving increased 
financial stability at an already difficult time. Overall, given the consequences for Mr and Mrs 
C of defaulting on debt secured against their home, I think the PPI would have been useful 
for them if Mr C was sick or lost his job.
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs C all the information they needed before they
decided to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made clear, but the PPI was
was a reasonable cost for the benefit it offered. Mr C has said they were struggling 
financially but I havent seen any evidence to show the cover was unaffordable. I also dont 
know when Halifax first pointed out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr C doesnt 
appear to have been affected by any of those things. So given their circumstances and the 
terms of the policy I dont think better information wouldve changed their decision.
This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs C back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. I understand Halifax has 
already paid this to Mr and Mrs C.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman