DRN-4047439
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent the loss he suffered 
when he sent money to one of their customers as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In 2022 Mr A was sadly the victim of a 
scam. He sent around £2,300 from his account with his own bank (which is based outside 
the UK) to an account held with HSBC.
At the time Mr A believed he was making a legitimate payment to secure a booking for some 
accommodation. But he later learned hed been scammed. With the assistance of his 
daughter Mr A later contacted HSBC through social media to complain. He didnt think theyd 
done enough to prevent his loss. 
HSBC responded and said that Mr A should raise this through his own bank and gave 
referral rights to our service. Being unhappy with this response, Mr A referred his complaint 
to us. One of our Investigators didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary she didnt think there were any failures by HSBC which caused or contributed to 
Mr As loss. 
Mr A disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr A feels strongly that HSBC should refund his loss and feels its unfair that the 
bank is unwilling to do so. But I want to be clear that unwittingly falling victim to a scam 
doesnt entitle the victim (here Mr A) to a refund from the bank that received their money. In 
these circumstances I could only direct HSBC to reimburse Mr A for his loss if Im satisfied 
they did something wrong where it would be fair and reasonable to ask them to provide a 
refund. 
When considering complaints of this nature, I can understand why, with the benefit of 
hindsight, its sometimes easy to say the recipient bank ought to have identified the activity 
on the account as fraud and shouldve done more to prevent the loss, or they couldve done 
more to assist in the recovery of the funds upon receipt of notification of fraud. However, I 
must be clear, when deciding this complaint, I need to think about what HSBC knew at the 
time  not what is known today. And where it is supposed (as is the case here) that HSBC 
didnt do enough. My role is to look into the individual circumstances of the case and decide 
(within my jurisdiction to consider this complaint), based on what I have seen, whether they 
should have fairly and reasonably done more.
With the above in mind, Im satisfied HSBC carried out appropriate checks to verify the 
identity of the recipient accountholder (in line with its regulatory obligations) when opening 
the account. So, it follows that I dont think there is any reason, based on the opening of the 
account, to ask HSBC to do more here.
  
Ive reviewed the account statements prior to Mr As payment arriving and following it leaving 
the account. I dont think there have been any failings by HSBC regarding the monitoring of 
the recipient account, so I cant say it missed an opportunity to prevent Mr As loss in this 
way either.
Im also satisfied that HSBC responded appropriately when they received notification of 
fraud from Mr A. It is standard industry practice for claims to be made by the sending bank 
on behalf of their customer. This is in part to mitigate the risk of malicious claims (which is 
not something Im suggesting has happened here). So, I cant say HSBC were wrong to refer 
Mr A back to his own bank in the first instance. 
Unfortunately, by the time HSBC had been told that Mr As payment had been made as a 
result of a scam, Mr As funds had already left the recipient account (in fact these were spent 
very soon after arriving). So I dont think there were any failings that prevented Mr A 
recovering his money. 
Overall, Im sorry to hear Mr A lost so much money to a scam. But as I dont think (within the 
scope of my jurisdiction) that HSBC did anything that caused the loss or hindered its 
recovery, Im not going to tell them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman