DRN-3471771
The complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax shared information with his bank 
that led to his account being blocked. 
What happened
Mr T has a mortgage with Halifax. In November 2020 Mr Ts bank (S) received information 
concerning potential fraud on his account. S took the step of applying a block to Mr Ts bank 
account. 
Mr T has explained a friend hes previously received transfers from was a victim of fraud 
around this time. Mr Ts friend banks with Halifax. 
S received information from Action Fraud that indicated his account mayve been impacted 
by fraud. A potential transfer from Mr Ts friend was raised for investigation. 
Mr T complained that Halifax had shared information with S and it sent him a final response. 
Halifax advised it hadnt shared any information about fraud in connection with Mr T. Halifax 
didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ts complaint but didnt find any evidence Halifax 
had shared information with S. The investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. Mr T asked 
to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr T thought Halifax had contacted S about potential fraud. But its come 
to light that Action Fraud contacted S, not Halifax. Mr T had previously received a transfer 
from his friend who banks with Halifax. But, as our investigator said, theres no evidence to 
show Halifax contacted S or raised concerns over fraud. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr T but as theres nothing to show Halifax shared information with S, 
Im unable to agree its made any mistakes or treated him unfairly. As a result, Im not telling 
Halifax to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman