DRN-3407448
The complaint
Miss B acquired a used car in July 2020, by means of a 36 month hire purchase agreement 
with First Response Finance Ltd. She complains that her car was not of satisfactory quality 
at the point of supply. She wants First Response to accept rejection of her car, and to refund 
in full all payments she has made. 
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 1 February 2022, as follows.
Background 
Miss Bs car was 110 months old, and had travelled a little under 64,800 miles, at the point 
of supply. 
Miss B contacted the Financial Ombudsman Service in June 2021 and told us:
Her car had broken down several times since she acquired it
She had previously taken her car back to the supplying dealership to deal with an 
exhaust emission system problem, and for minor servicing
She complained to First Response in May 2021 about several problems relating to 
her cars transmission system and electronic systems, and a further problem with its 
exhaust emission system 
First Response asked her to obtain reports on these problems, which she did over 
the next few days
These reports showed that her car was faulty  but First Response said they were 
not enough to show these faults were present or developing at the point of supply, 
given that her car had just passed an MOT test when she acquired it
First Response did not uphold Miss Bs complaint, which she then referred to us. First 
Response told us:
It had contacted the garage that had prepared one of the reports obtained by Miss B
The garages report noted that the car had travelled nearly 10,000 miles since the 
point of supply, identified various problems, and confirmed faults in the engine and 
transmission systems 
The report confirmed exhaust emission system damage as well, and the garages 
representative said that Miss Bs car would not have passed an MOT test in this 
condition  the representative also expressed his view that this damage was likely to 
have been present at the point of supply
But the car had passed an MOT test just before the point of supply, which meant 
either the test result was questionable, or the representatives view was incorrect 
It considered commissioning its own report on the car, undertaken by a suitably 
accredited independent organisation  but it knew that, 11 months after acquisition, 
the onus was on Miss B to demonstrate faults were present or developing at the 
point of supply
Having reviewed both reports obtained by Miss B, it decided a further report was not 
necessary to conclude that there was insufficient evidence to say her car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply
Miss B later told us that she had stopped using her car in July 2021, saying she no longer 
felt it was safe to drive because of its problems. 
 
Our investigator asked First Response for:
Documentation from Miss Bs visit to the supplying dealership, to deal with her cars 
exhaust emission system fault
A copy of the supplying dealerships pre-delivery inspection report on Miss Bs car
First Response said it had not been provided with any documentation relating to Miss Bs 
visit, or proof of any works that may have taken place  it also had not received a pre-
delivery report.  But it did provide to us notes of its contacts with Miss B and the supplying 
dealership.
Our investigator thought that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He drew attention to an 
advisory notice associated with Miss Bs cars July 2020 MOT test, which indicated that her 
cars underbody cladding was obstructing the MOT inspectors view.  
From this advisory, our investigator inferred it was not possible to confirm the exhaust 
emission system was undamaged in July 2020. And, based on all the available information 
and evidence, he thought the damage was present or developing at that time. 
Our investigator also thought that this damaged system was likely to have been an 
underlying factor in causing other faults, subsequently identified in the engine and 
transmission systems. And so, he concluded it was more likely than not that Miss Bs car 
was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Our investigator understood that the cost of repair was likely to be more than 45% of the 
price paid to acquire Miss Bs car. Miss B wanted to reject  and, in these circumstances, he 
felt it would not be fair or reasonable to insist that her car was repaired. 
Our investigator recommended that First Response should:
End Miss Bs agreement with nothing further to pay
Collect Miss Bs car (if not already collected) at no further cost to her
Refund (plus interest) all payments made by Miss B, after the date in July 2021 that 
she stopped using it  
Pay Miss B compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Remove all adverse information it may have recorded on Miss Bs credit file, relating 
to this agreement
Our investigator acknowledged that Miss B wanted a refund of all payments made, but he 
noted that she had made full use of her car between July 2020 and July 2021 (over the 10 
months from July 2020 to May 2021, the car had travelled nearly 10,000 miles). And so, he 
felt it would not be appropriate for the payments made during this period to be refunded.
But our investigator also acknowledged that Miss B had experienced distress and 
inconvenience, arising from her cars problems.  And so, he felt it would be appropriate to 
award her compensation of £100.First Response disagreed with our investigator, saying:
Miss B did not raise with it the matters about which she complained until May 2021, 
10 months after the point of supply
Because of this delay, the onus was on Miss B to demonstrate that her car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when she acquired it
Given the mileage travelled during this period, it was unlikely that point of supply 
problems with the cars exhaust emission would not have become apparent sooner
Its responsibilities as credit provider did not extend beyond the point of supply, nor 
did they include maintenance or normal wear and tear issues
It was aware that, in March 2021 (before Miss B raised her complaint), a close 
relative had completed at minimal cost what would have been an expensive engine 
repair, if it had been undertaken by a suitably accredited vehicle repairer  this raised 
the possibility that the problems identified in May 2021 were caused by poor quality 
repair work two months earlier
Even if it was found to be responsible for point of supply faults, it should have first 
been given the opportunity to attempt repairs to Miss Bs car  and the option of 
rejection should only have been considered, if these repairs were unsuccessful    
So, this complaint was referred for review by an ombudsman.
My provisional findings
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach 
my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and wider circumstances. 
First Response has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This means that a reasonable 
person would have regarded the goods as satisfactory, taking into account all relevant 
circumstances, which for cars include age and mileage travelled. 
But there are limits to First Responses responsibilities. In particular, faults must be present 
or developing at the point of supply. 
On the one hand, First Response has not helped us to resolve this complaint:
It appears not to have tried to obtain from the supplying dealership useful 
documentation asked for by our investigator
It chose not to commission a report on Miss Bs car from a suitably accredited 
independent organisation, when one of the reports provided to it by her appeared to 
reach contradictory conclusions  although I accept that the onus was on Miss B to 
demonstrate that her car was of unsatisfactory quality
Documentation relating to either or both of the above would have made the available 
evidence more complete.  
Instead, to argue that Miss B acquired a car of satisfactory quality, First Response has relied 
on:
Her car passing an MOT test in July 2020, and travelling 10,000 miles over the 
subsequent 10 months,
The cars bad condition in May 2021 being possibly the result of poor-quality repairs 
undertaken by a close relative  
A lack of evidence of point of supply faultsFirst Response has also argued that  even if Miss B acquired a car of unsatisfactory quality 
 the appropriate remedy to consider first should be repair, rather than rejection.
On the other hand, to argue that Miss B acquired a car of unsatisfactory quality, our 
investigator has relied partly on the cars July 2020 MOT test advisory notice. This suggests 
that damage to its exhaust emission system, identified in May 2021, could have been 
obscured during this test  if damage had been visible, the car would have failed this test. 
In addition, Miss B stated that:
Her car had broken down several times since she acquired it
She had previously taken her car back to the supplying dealership to deal with an 
exhaust emission system problem, and for minor servicing
 
Based on all the available evidence, our investigator argued it was more likely than not that 
the system was damaged  which would mean that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
A more complete evidence base would have reduced the level of uncertainly associated with 
our investigators argument. We specifically have no documents supporting Miss Bs 
statements. And so, I find this argument very difficult to accept. 
I also dont find First Responses argument particularly strong. But, as noted earlier, the onus 
isnt on it to show that Miss Bs car was of satisfactory quality. And so, on the balance of 
probabilities, I cannot conclude that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
 
This means I have come to a different conclusion to that of our investigator.
My provisional decision and responses
For the reasons explained above, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive 
from Miss B or First Response, my provisional decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
First Response has replied, agreeing with my decision. But Miss B has disagreed, initially 
saying:
She does not really understand how I have reached my decision
She has asked the garage representative, who said that her car would not have 
passed an MOT test in the condition he found it, to provide further written evidence
She will not give up on her complaint, because she is paying for a car that she 
cannot use
Miss B has subsequently told us that she cannot obtain further information from the garage 
representative, because the garage has gone out of business and she is unable to contact 
him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss B will not give up on her complaint, because the evidence I have 
seen indicates that her car is faulty in various ways. But this does not necessarily mean that 
First Response has any responsibility for these faults. As I explained in my provisional decision, First Responses responsibility is limited. In 
particular, faults for which it is responsible must be present or developing at the point of 
supply.
In addition, because Miss B did not complain to First Response until 11 months after 
acquisition, the onus is on her to demonstrate that the car has point of supply faults. The 
onus is not on First Response to demonstrate that these faults were absent at acquisition.
My provisional finding is not that Miss Bs car was definitely of satisfactory quality when she 
acquired it. My finding is that, on balance, there is insufficient evidence to say her car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. And, in these circumstances, First Response is 
not responsible for her cars faults.
This complaint is against First Response, with which Miss B entered into a hire purchase 
agreement. I note that our investigator has provided to Miss B details of an alternative 
dispute resolution service, through which she might wish to make a complaint against the 
dealership that supplied her car. It may be the case that the dealers responsibilities in this 
matter are greater than those of the finance provider.
And so, in the absence of further information or evidence, I see no reason to change my 
provisional finding or decision.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Roy Mawford
Ombudsman