DRN-3081189
The complaint
Mr R complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his claim following 
the theft of his car, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R says his car was stolen from his driveway. He claimed to Acromas but says the matter 
had been going back and forth without a decision. 
Mr R complained to Acromas about the handing of his claim in September 2019. He thought 
his claim shouldve been accepted by now and didnt think there were discrepancies in his 
account of events. Acromas sent a final decision letter in November. It didnt uphold Mr Rs 
complaint and said it couldnt validate his claim at that time because of the discrepancies it 
had highlighted.  
Mr R subsequently complained to Acromas in August 2020. He didnt think it was fair that the 
business wanted to interview him again about his claim. He didnt think it had given a good 
reason for this and thought the business already had enough information. Mr R says hes not 
in good health, didnt have the stamina to participate in a long video interview with an 
interpreter, and didnt have a suitable internet connection. 
Acromas sent a final response letter in October 2020. It says a further interview was 
necessary as it hadnt been able to validate Mr Rs claim. It suggested he seek support from 
the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) or a family member, and also ask for help in providing an 
internet connection during the interview. Mr R didnt think this was fair and referred both his 
complaints to our service later in October.   
Our investigator looked into both complaints. He says he didnt think we could help with his 
complaint from 2019. This is because Mr R had referred his complaint to our service more 
than six months after Acromass final response letter, which meant it was too late. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint from 2020. He thought Acromass decision to 
require a further interview was reasonable because there were several discrepancies in the 
information Mr R provided. He thought the business had made reasonable adjustments to 
ensure the interview was manageable for him.  
Mr R thought this was unfair and asked for an ombudsman to look at his case from top to 
bottom including the complaint from September 2019 and his later complaint in 2020. 
It has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs complaint from 2019 was referred more than six months after Acromass final 
response letter. This means that under the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) we cannot 
consider his complaint. Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint from 2020, which I 
understand will come as a disappointment to him, but I will explain why I think my decision 
is fair. 
Why I cant look at the 2019 complaint
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us 
more than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, 
telling them they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1) 
and it can be found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Acromas sent its final response letter in November 2019. Mr R contacted our service in 
October 2020. So well outside the six-month timeframe. We asked Acromas if it consented 
for us to look into the complaint, but it didnt agree. We also asked Mr R why he hadnt 
referred his complaint earlier, to understand if there were exceptional circumstances to 
consider. He didnt respond. 
On this basis the complaint was referred out of time under the rules I have to apply. So, I 
wont be considering this here.  
2020 complaint
In August 2020 Mr R wrote to Acromas to complain about its request to conduct a recorded 
video interview, using an interpreter to act as intermediary. He says his CAB representative 
spoke to Acromass appointed interviewer. But there had been no explanation of the scope 
of the interview and no reason given as to why the interview was necessary. 
Acromas wrote to Mr R in September 2020 with a detailed letter explaining why an 
interview was necessary. It says there are a number of discrepancies and inconsistencies 
relating to his policy and his claim. 
With respect to the incident statement Mr R gave, he said his car had been on his driveway 
for around two weeks when it was stolen. He had been unable to drive it due to an 
operation hed recently undergone. Mr R said no-one else uses the car or has the right to 
use it. However, Acromas points to a bus lane violation and parking ticket that show the car 
had been driven on the day before, and on the day of the theft. 
Acromas says there are discrepancies with the information Mr R gave to the police. He 
said he was asleep when the car was stolen, but also recalls both hearing and seeing it 
being driven away. Mr R says no-one had permission to use the car, but also says his son 
had used it earlier in the day before the theft. Mr R says his son had lost the spare key, but 
also that he kept the key in his bedroom or somewhere safe. Acromas says Mr R was 
able to produce the spare key when requested, which shows it wasnt lost by his son. 
Acromas says there are also discrepancies with the times of the theft given by Mr R and 
the information provided by his son. The business wanted to analyse the car keys but only 
received one key. From its records it says its clear only one key was included in the 
envelope, despite Mr Rs assertion that both keys were sent.
Acromas raised concerns about a number of other incidents that had occurred that Mr R 
hadnt declared and wouldve impacted on its decision to provide cover. It says it hadnt 
received any documents to prove Mr R had an insurable interest in the car. And hadnt 
been told about a medical issue that meant the DVLA had told him not to drive. Acromas referred to the following terms from Mr Rs policy booklet:
You must not act in a fraudulent manner. You, any authorised driver, or any person acting 
for you must not make false or exaggerated claims. If you, any authorised driver, or anyone 
acting for you makes a claim knowing any part of it to be false or exaggerated, the insurer 
will not pay the claim and the insurer will cancel your policy. The insurer shall be entitled to 
recover from you the amount of any claim already under the policy during the period of 
insurance.
If the insurer cancels your policy on the grounds of fraudulent activity, they will keep any 
premium you have paid and may inform the police of the circumstances.              
The business asked Mr R for a full reply to its concerns in order to consider his claim further. 
Mr R responded in November 2019. He says some of the issues highlighted may be 
because he doesnt always understand or speak English very well. He says he had been out 
of the country for most of January and February 2019, returning early in March. And had 
been driving his car since his return. Mr R says he thought the thief mustve been 
responsible for the bus lane violation but later realised it was him driving. 
In his letter Mr R says he had woken up on the night of the theft and noticed the car was 
missing. He says he saw the car being driven away on the CCTV, which may be the reason 
for the confusion. He also says his son hadnt been driving the car and it was under his 
control since returning to the UK. 
Acromas responded to Mr R a few days later. It says his comments added further 
inconsistencies to the evidence he had supplied to the police and to its investigator. It says it 
was seeking further evidence from the police and asked Mr R to provide the CCTV footage 
of his car being stolen. Acromas told Mr R it couldnt consider settlement of the claim at this 
time because of the inconsistencies and missing information. 
In its final response to Mr Rs first complaint, Acromas says there was no mention of a 
language barrier in the statements taken. It says from listening to its call recordings Mr R 
showed no difficulty communicating. The letter explains Mr Rs claim hadnt been rejected 
but it did have concerns that required further investigation.  
The CAB wrote to Acromas in January 2020 on Mr Rs behalf and provided a final 
statement of facts. It says confusion appears to have arisen because of Mr Rs limited 
capability in English. Acromas responded in February. It says, the explanations provided 
simply do not stack up. It goes on to say it still has concerns about Mr Rs statement that he 
is the sole user of the car, given the evidence and statements contradicting this. Its 
concerned that Mr R may not have been medically fit to drive the car, given his surgery 
around the time of the theft. It also remained concerned about whether he had been driving 
the car or not, around the time it was stolen.  
Acromas says its reason for wanting the car keys was to understand when they had been 
used. It explained it wanted to establish this by performing a digital key analysis. It has 
concerns about the timing of the key going missing. It says it is also concerned that the 
CCTV footage wasnt retained by Mr R as this is, highly important evidence. 
I have thought about whether it was reasonable for Acromas to request a further interview 
with Mr R based on this evidence. 
Its reasonable for an insurer to be able to validate a claim prior to establishing any 
settlement outcome. Its clear there were a number of discrepancies in the statements 
provided by Mr R and his son. In addition, there is missing evidence and missing documentation. I think its reasonable Acromas had concerns about validating the claim 
given these issues. And its fair that it wanted to interview Mr R again to try and clarify these 
points and consider his claim further. So, I cant say its request for a further interview meant 
it was treating Mr R unfairly. 
I can understand that Mr R was unwilling to agree to a lengthy video interview, because of 
his age and health issues. I also acknowledge the point about the lack of a suitable internet 
connection. In response Acromas suggested Mr R should ask for support from the CAB, as 
he had done previously, or via a family member to allow an interview to go ahead. In the 
circumstances I think this was reasonable. Mr R had established a relationship with a CAB 
adviser, and there was the potential for support from his family. I understand it was also 
suggested to split the interview up into smaller chunks so that it would be more 
manageable for him. In addition, Acromas proposed using an interpreter to address Mr Rs 
concern that a language barrier had created confusion regarding his earlier statements.
I understand Mr R eventually agreed to a further interview, which has since taken place.  
Having considered all of this, I dont think Acromas behaved unreasonably toward Mr R in 
asking for a further interview. The evidence supports its view that this was necessary to 
validate the claim. I also think it treated Mr R fairly in the action it took to make the interview 
more manageable for him. Because of this I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve 
his complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman