DRN-3250985
The complaint
Mrs C complains AXA PPP Healthcare Limited unfairly increased her policy premiums.
What happened
Mrs C has held a private medical insurance policy with AXA PPP for several years. Her 
policy premiums increased at her renewal in January 2020 and again in January 2021 
After receiving her 2020 renewal quote at the end of 2019, Mrs C contacted AXA PPP about 
the increase in her premium. AXA PPP offered Mrs C a 5% discount for paying her premium 
annually, and a further 5% discount. Mrs C also agreed to remove some policy benefits, 
which reduced the cost further, and she continued with her policy. 
At the next renewal for January 2021, Mrs Cs premium had increased again, and she 
contacted AXA PPP about this. AXA PPP told Mrs C she could start a policy as a new 
member, and calculated the price for her. However the premiums for a new policy were 
higher than she was already paying, due to her level of no claims discount. And AXA PPP 
said it was unable to offer the additional 5% discount it gave the previous year. 
Mrs C complained to AXA PPP about what she felt were large price increases. She said she 
hadnt made any claims, and thought it was unfair that AXA PPP wouldnt reduce the cost of 
her premiums. 
AXA PPP said Mrs C was already receiving a no claims discount at the highest level it could 
offer. And it said it had given an extra 5% discount at the January 2020 renewal, but was 
unable to do this again. AXA PPP also provided information about the factors impacting 
premium pricing, including medical advancements and the customers age. 
Unhappy with AXA PPPs response, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think AXA PPP had 
acted unfairly. 
AXA PPP made no further comments on the investigators view. However Mrs C disagreed. 
In summary she said she still thought the premium increases had been excessive. And the 
reduction she had received at the January 2020 renewal was only because she agreed to 
pay annually and remove some policy benefits. 
As Mrs C disagreed and asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think AXA PPP has done anything wrong. And Ill explain why.
We dont generally tell insurers how they should calculate risk or what price they can charge 
for cover. AXA PPPs entitled to decide whether or not it wants to offer insurance cover for 
claims relating to Mrs Cs health. And if it does, what price it needs to charge for that. 
AXA PPP will have assessed the risk of Mrs C needing to make a claim when she first took 
out her policy and then again at each yearly renewal. If AXA PPP thinks the risk has 
increased, for example because of a change in risk profile, or because medical care costs 
have gone up, it may decide to increase Mrs Cs premiums.  
AXA PPP has provided evidence showing how Mrs Cs renewal prices have been calculated 
for her 2020 and 2021 policy years. Ive looked carefully at these and I think Mrs Cs 
premiums at these two renewals have been calculated fairly. I cant share the evidence Ive 
seen, as its commercially sensitive, but I can say that the main reason for the change in Mrs 
Cs premiums at her January 2020 and January 2021 renewals, was due to an age and 
inflation related increase. AXA PPP advised Mrs C she had already reached the maximum 
level of no claims discount, so there was no further discount to offset any of this increase. 
And having compared Mrs Cs level of discount to the maximum set out the in the policy 
terms, Im satisfied that was correct. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied AXA PPPs treated Mrs C in the same way it would 
any other policyholder in similar circumstances. So I dont think its treated her unfairly.
I note AXA PPP agreed to offer an additional 5% discount at the 2020 renewal, as Mrs C 
had said she was unhappy with the increase. But it didnt offer this discount again at her 
2021 renewal. AXA PPP was under no obligation to offer this extra discount for the 2020 
renewal, or to offer it again in the future. And Ive not seen any evidence that it told Mrs C 
that this would be an ongoing discount. So I dont think its decision not to offer any further 
discount at the 2021 renewal was unfair or unreasonable. 
I can see from AXA PPPs records of its calls and correspondence with Mrs C, that it has let 
her know there are other options that can be explored around changes to her cover, which 
could reduce her premiums. And Im aware that she made some changes of this type at her 
January 2020 renewal. But I appreciate Mrs C may want to maintain the level of cover she 
has. Ultimately, Mrs C has a free choice as to whether or not to keep the policy. At the point 
of each annual renewal, if she deems the premiums to be too high, or that the policy doesnt 
represent value for money, she can choose to cancel. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman