DRN-2382366
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Aviva Insurance Limited gave them wrong information 
about claiming cash benefit under their private medical insurance policy.
What happened
After Mr B was sadly diagnosed with cancer, Mr and Mrs B contacted Aviva to find out 
about making a claim on their policy for his treatment. Unfortunately, Mr B couldnt use 
the policy and have private treatment because of a lack of private facilities where he and 
Mrs B lived.
Mr B therefore had to have chemotherapy treatment in his local NHS hospital on a day- 
patient basis. In May 2019, Mr and Mrs B were advised by Aviva that the policy would 
pay a cash benefit for this. However, after Mr and Mrs B made a claim, Aviva told them 
theyd been given the wrong information, and the policy didnt pay a cash benefit in those 
circumstances. Aviva apologised for its error and offered Mr and Mrs B £500. Unhappy 
with this, Mr and Mrs B brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Aviva had 
turned down the claim in line with the policy terms, and was of the view that the 
compensation it had offered was reasonable for the error it had made.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 November 2020. My provisional findings were:
The policy says that NHS cash benefit of £200 per night is payable if an insured has NHS 
in- patient treatment. The policy provides a day-patient cash benefit of £100 per day, but 
this is only payable if private day-patient treatment takes place instead of private in-patient 
treatment.
Mr B had NHS day-patient treatment, which means theres no cash benefit payable 
under the policy. I therefore agree that Aviva was correct to turn down the claim.
Aviva had paid Mrs B £100 for day-patient treatment she received at an NHS hospital 
in January 2019. However, I understand Aviva made this payment in error.
Aviva says it has always been the case that day-patient benefit is only payable if it 
takes place privately, however, it explains that it amended the policy terms some 
years ago to make this clearer.
Based on the extract Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Bs earlier policy terms, the cash benefit 
for day-patient treatment doesnt include the word private. Although I havent seen the 
full policy terms, I agree with Mr and Mrs B that this should mean the cash benefit ought 
to be paid when the member has treatment as a day-patient rather than in-patient, 
regardless of whether or not that takes place privately.
Nevertheless, Aviva is correct to apply the current policy terms to any claims, and so 
Im satisfied its correct to say that the day-patient benefit is only payable if this takes 
place privately and if it takes place instead of private in-patient treatment.
Mr and Mrs B say that Mr B had day-patient treatment in a private hospital some years 
ago, but they didnt get the cash benefit at that time. I would suggest they contact Aviva 
about this to see if they have an eligible claim.
Aviva accepts that it gave Mr and Mrs B the wrong information about claiming cash 
benefit when it spoke to them about the matter in May 2019. It therefore offered them 
£500 for the first week of chemotherapy treatment that Mr B received on a day-patient 
basis under the NHS, but confirmed that any further day-patient cash benefit would only 
be paid if treatment took place privately. I think that was reasonable.
However, I have inquisitorial jurisdiction, which means I can look at the wider 
circumstances of the matter, rather than focus solely on the complaint presented to me. 
In Mr and Mrs Bs case, the problems concerning the cash benefit only arose because Mr 
B couldnt use the policy because of where he lived.
Mrs B raised concerns about this with Aviva. She said she felt that she and her 
husband were being penalised because of where they lived, and they were paying for 
a policy that they couldnt make use of when they needed it.
When someone pays for private medical insurance cover, my view is that they should be 
able to access private treatment within a reasonable distance from their home. Mr B 
couldnt do so, due to the lack of private facilities in the area. I appreciate thats not 
Avivas fault, but I note that Mrs B asked for help with travel costs (so that Mr B could 
access private treatment) or a reduction in their premium to reflect that Mr B was using the 
NHS and saving Aviva money. I dont think those requests were unreasonable. However, 
it seems Aviva didnt consider those options, and instead advised Mr and Mrs B that they 
needed to decide if the policy was right for them, given the lack of local private facilities.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B cancelled the policy in March 2020. That was of course 
their choice. However, I think Aviva ought to pay compensation to recognise that Mr B 
couldnt access nearby private treatment whilst he and Mrs B were paying for the policy.
In the circumstances, I think itd be reasonable for Aviva to pay £100 for each day-
patient admission that Mr B had in an NHS hospital for his cancer treatment, even 
though this is outside of the policy terms.
As Aviva has already paid £500 towards this, it will be entitled to deduct this amount from 
the settlement.
However, that means Aviva wont have paid Mr and Mrs B any compensation for wrongly 
advising them that they were entitled to claim cash benefit under the policy, and the upset 
this caused at the time. I therefore intend to require Aviva to pay £200 compensation for 
this.
Mr and Mrs B are also unhappy that Aviva wouldnt allow them to make changes to their 
policy, even though Aviva was able to do so. As Mr and Mrs B are aware, the policy isnt 
being offered to new customers and Aviva arent allowing existing customers to make any 
changes to their cover, which is confirmed in the policy. Whilst I can appreciate Mr and 
Mrs Bs frustration about this, ultimately this was Avivas decision. As the investigator has 
explained, all policyholders of this policy are in the same situation, so I cant say that Mr 
and Mrs B were treated unfairly because of this.
I asked both parties to provide any further comments they wished to make. 
Mr and Mrs B responded to confirm they accepted my provisional findings.Aviva responded to confirm it accepted my provisional findings, but said it would require 
confirmation from the hosiptal of the dates that Mr B received his day-patient treatment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties agreed with my provisional findings, I see no reason to change them.
Aviva said it wants confirmation from the hospital of the dates that Mr B received his 
treatment. I agree thats reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to do 
the following:
-Pay compensation equivalent to £100 for each day-patient admission that Mr B had in 
an NHS hospital for his cancer treatment whilst the policy was in force. It can deduct 
the £500 it has already paid towards this. Mr and Mrs B should provide Aviva with 
confirmation from the hospital of the dates that Mr B had his treatment.
-Pay Mr and Mrs B £200 compensation for the upset they were caused as a result of it 
incorrectly advising them that they could claim cash benefit.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2020.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman