DRN-3943360
The complaint
Mr T complained about the service provided by Barclays Bank Plc. He said Barclays has not 
honoured a trade on his investment account when he tried to sell shares. He said he should 
be reimbursed for his investment losses.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr T put through an order to sell shares that he held and could see 
that if he did this, based on Barclays trading screen, he would make a large profit. He 
said he was expecting proceeds of around £154,000 but instead when they were sold, 
he received around £1,540. Mr T said he made a loss of around £960 when he was 
expecting to make a large profit. Mr T said he called Barclays, who informed him it had 
made an error. It said the pricing information he received was incorrect, but it had been 
fixed. Mr T said Barclays should honour the original trade at the price he saw. He 
complained to it about this.  
Barclays replied and said there was incorrect information on its trading platform that showed 
Mr Ts shares were worth a lot more than they were. It said when it went to sell the shares, 
he received the actual value of them, and this was around £1,540. It said it was sorry for its 
mistake and offered to buy back the shares with zero commission or reverse the trade. It 
said alternatively Mr T could keep the trade as it was. It said it would also offer £50 as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Mr T wasnt happy with Barclays response. He said Barclays should pay him compensation 
as he wouldnt have sold the stock otherwise. He repeated that he felt Barclays should 
honour the trade and reimburse the difference. He referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ts complaint and didnt recommend that it be upheld. He 
said Barclays has accepted there were issues and that it made the error. He said the 
business has offered to make Mr Ts account whole again, but Mr T has declined this. It has 
also offered £50 compensation and the investigator felt its offer overall was fair.
Mr T didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman review and so his complaint comes to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not think Barclays needs to put things right, any more than what it has already offered.  
These are my findings that explain why:
Barclays has said it made errors by providing incorrect information about the 
shareholding held by Mr T. It has said sorry and has offered to put things right. 
So, because of this I dont need to make any findings on whether Barclays has 
done anything wrong, Barclays has said it has. It says it gave incorrect 
information. And I can see this led to Mr T trying to and then going on to sell his 
shares. Rather, what I need to consider here is whether Barclays offer to put 
things right is fair and reasonable.
Barclays has said it would ensure Mr T had the units he originally held, bringing 
the account back to its previous state. It also offered to reverse the trade. It has 
offered £50 as a gesture of goodwill. 
When a business had done something wrong  in this case provide incorrect 
information about an investment, I would expect it to put things right. A fair and 
reasonable way for Barclays to do this, would be to put Mr T back in a position he 
wouldve been but for its mistake. 
At no point that I can see, did Mr T have shares that were valued at around 
£154,000. At the time Mr T looked at the trading platform and checked what his 
shares were worth, his shares were worth around £1,540 and he was simply 
given the wrong information. Barclays said it was a technology issue with the 
underlying feeds. 
Barclays made an error and provided incorrect information, but Mr Ts shares 
were still worth around £1,540. So, if I asked Barclays to do as Mr T has 
suggested, it would be putting him in a much better position than he would have 
been but for Barclays error. This would not be a fair or reasonable way for 
Barclays to put things right. 
I have listened to the phone calls between Mr T and Barclays. Barclays offered, 
on the day of the trade, to reverse it or buy the shares back with zero 
commission. If Mr T had agreed to this, Barclays would have been able to put 
him back in a position he wouldve been in but for its error. And I think its offer 
would have been in line with what I would have suggested it did. 
Barclays repeated its offer to Mr T shortly afterwards in another phone call. It said 
at this point that if Mr T didnt rebuy them, then Barclays wouldnt be able to buy 
them back in the future. Mr T declined again and said to Barclays that he didnt 
want to lose the initial price and he asked why he should buy them back again.
Barclays then withdrew the offer to buy the shares back. I dont think this is 
unreasonable. I have heard how it gave Mr T options twice during telephone calls 
with him to put things right and buy back the shares, and Mr T declined on both 
occasions.
Barclays also offered £50 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. When I consider all the circumstances in Mr Ts complaint, I think this 
offer is fair and reasonable. 
Looked at overall, I think what Barclays offered to Mr T to put things right is fair and 
reasonable. It said it would reset Mr Ts holdings back to the units he originally held but he 
declined this. Barclays has offered compensation of £50 for distress and inconvenience caused. I think 
this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
My final decision
Barclays Bank Plc has already made an offer to Mr T to pay £50 to settle the complaint. I 
think its offer is fair and reasonable.
So, my decision is that Barclays Bank Plc should pay £50 in total if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman