DRN-4350117
The complaint
Ms K complains that Santander UK plc didnt do enough to help her recover her money once 
shed reported a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Ms K joined an online dating site and began speaking to a man who Ill refer to as the 
scammer. They communicated via the dating app for several weeks before exchanging 
numbers and communicating through WhatsApp. Ms K told him she was a single mother 
who worked and had two teenagers, the eldest of whom had gone to university. 
The scammer shared details about his divorce and told Ms K about his business dealings, 
including the fact hed been trading in cryptocurrency for seven years. The scammer told Ms 
K about different cryptocurrencies and trading principles before instructing her to open an 
account with a cryptocurrency exchange company Ill refer to as C. He sent her a link to a 
trading platform which required ID verification and had a professional looking website.
The scammer told Ms K to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange 
company and then load the cryptocurrency onto her online wallet. Between 23 April 2022 
and 1 May 2022, Ms K made four payments totalling £7681.41 using a credit card connected 
to her Santander account.
Ms K realised shed been the victim of a scam after several unsuccessful attempts to 
withdraw her money which resulted in her using her savings and borrowing money to pay 
various fees and taxes. She complained to Santander arguing it should have noticed there 
was unusual activity on her account and intervened when she tried to make the payments. 
She also asked it to refund the money under the CRM code. Santander responded to the 
complaint on 15 July 2022 and Ms K complained to this service on 28 January 2023, but Ive 
said I cant consider the elements of Ms Ks complaint that are referred to by Santander in its 
final response letter dated 15 July 2022, because they were referred to this service out of 
time. 
However, Ms K also complained to Santander about the fact it failed to raise a chargeback 
request and it responded to that on 30 August 2022, stating it did raise chargeback disputes 
and two payments of £721 and £1000 were successfully won at Pre-Arbitration stage. But it 
said the payments of £4,535 and £1,425.41 were declined as the merchants had evidenced 
the services had been provided. Ive said we can consider this element of the complaint as it 
was referred to our service within the required time limits. 
Our investigator was satisfied there was no reasonable prospect of a successful chargeback 
as Santander did raise chargeback requests for all four payments and the merchant 
defended the claim, providing evidence to show theyd provided the service they were 
required to provide. She also said there was no evidence to show Ms K asked Santander to 
raise a claim under Section 75 of the consumer Credit Act 1974, but she didnt think it would 
have been successful.
Ms K has asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. Im sorry to hear that Ms K has been the victim of a cruel scam. I know she 
feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a disappointment to her, so Ill 
explain why. 
Ive thought about whether Santander could have done more to recover Ms Ks payments 
when she reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Mastercard 
whereby it will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it 
cannot be resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the 
rules of the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess Mastercards arbitration decision or scheme 
rules, but to determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Santander) acted fairly and 
reasonably when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its 
cardholder (Ms K).
Ms Ks own testimony supports that she used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Ms Ks payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Santanders decision not to 
continue to pursue the chargeback request was fair. I appreciate Ms K was tricked into 
making the payments but for the purposes of Mastercards scheme rules it would be 
considered that she received the service she paid for.  
It's unclear whether Ms K asked for Santander to raise a Section 75 claim, but Ive 
considered the issue for completeness and concluded there would be no valid claim under 
Section 75, as the debtor-creditor-supplier link is broken given Ms K paid a legitimate 
merchant. So, I dont consider it unreasonable of Santander not to pursue a Section 75 claim 
on Ms Ks behalf.
Overall, Im satisfied Santander took the correct steps after being notified of the potential 
fraud. Im sorry to hear Ms K has lost money and the effect this has had on her. But for the 
reasons Ive explained, I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023.
 
Carolyn BonnellOmbudsman