DRN-3855494
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Great Lakes Insurance SE declined a claim they made under 
their travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs L held travel insurance with Great Lakes, which provided them with cover for 
various risks, whilst travelling abroad.
Theyve explained that whilst abroad, the government of the country they were visiting made 
the decision to ban entry and exit to and from the country  from midnight on 16 March 2020 
 in response to the Coronavirus.
Mr and Mrs L already had a pre-booked flight to return home on 16 March 2020  before the 
restrictions came into force. So, they were satisfied they would be leaving the country in 
compliance with this. On 15 March 2020, they went to bed, with the plan on waking up on 16 
March 2020, and taking a taxi to the airport, for their scheduled flight.
However, theyve explained that during the night, they were woken by the hotel staff  who 
explained they needed to go to another floor in the hotel, and take a Coronavirus test, to 
check they were negative for Covid-19. Mr and Mrs L did this  and received negative test 
results back. They were also informed they wouldnt be able to get a taxi to the airport, as 
planned. Instead, ambulances would be taking travellers from the hotel to the airport.
Mr and Mrs L waited for the ambulance, as instructed. But the ambulance then didnt drop 
them off at the airport in time for them to make their scheduled flight. This meant Mr and Mrs 
Ls flight departed without them on it. And they needed to book another flight to travel back 
to the UK that day. So, thats what they did.
This meant Mr and Mrs L had incurred the cost of buying additional flights. So, they made a 
claim under their travel insurance policy for this loss.
Great Lakes reviewed Mr and Mrs Ls claim but declined it. They said there was no cover 
under the policy for the circumstances Mr and Mrs L found themselves in. This included 
under sections of the policy related to missed departure and travel delay. Mr and Mrs L were 
unhappy with this. So, raised their concerns with Great Lakes.
Great Lakes maintained its position on the matter. So, Mr and Mrs L referred their complaint 
to this service for an independent review. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and felt it should be upheld. They said 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy covered reasonable additional travel and accommodation costs 
necessarily incurred to return home, under the missed departure section of the policy. And 
said that as Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances fitted into this scenario, Great Lakes should settle 
the claim.
Great Lakes disagreed. It noted that the missed departure section of the policy didnt provide 
cover for the situation Mr and Mrs L had found themselves in. This being a delay caused by 
the authorities in the relevant country. 
Because Great Lakes didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending on upholding this complaint. So, I dont intend on requiring 
Great Lakes to do anything more. Ive explained why below. 
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether Great 
Lakes acted in line with these requirements, when it declined to settle Mr and Mrs Ls claim. 
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ls policy documentation, to see what cover is provided to them. 
And I can see Mr and Mrs Ls policy is an insured peril policy. This is common in insurance 
policies of this nature. It means that for a loss to be covered under the policy, the reason for 
the loss needs to have occurred because of one of the insured perils, listed within the policy. 
If the reason for the loss isnt listed, then it isnt covered  and the insurance policy wont 
respond.
Ive considered the insured events in Mr and Mrs Ls policy. And I can see that one of them 
is missed departure. I do note our investigator referred to the terms for missed departure 
only being relevant for the first outward journey. But, reading the section as a whole  its 
covering the first outward journey abroad  whether that be leaving the UK, or returning. 
The missed departure section explains it will provide cover reasonable travel expenses, 
necessary to reach Mr and Mrs Ls oversees destination, or home country, by the most direct 
route  if the missed departure was for set reasons. These being:
A breakdown on, or accident, directly involving the vehicle Mr and Mrs L were 
travelling in.
A cancellation, curtailment or delay of Mr and Mrs Ls scheduled public transport, due 
to adverse weather, strike or industrial action, mechanical breakdown or an accident
A delay due to a major incident on the motorway
There were road closures because of an act of terrorism, or the public transport was 
delayed or cancelled due to an act of terrorism.  
Given the above, Im aware that for Mr and Mrs Ls missed departure to be covered under 
the policy, there missed departure needs to be due to one of the above reasons. Great 
Lakes has said that isnt the case. And Im satisfied thats correct. The reason Mr and Mrs L 
didnt get to the airport in time was because of a requirement to wait and travel in an 
ambulance, due to the relevant authoritys instructions. It wasnt because of any of the 
reasons above.
As Mr and Mrs Ls reason for missing their flight wasnt because of any of the listed reasons, 
Im currently satisfied Great Lakes acted fairly, and in line with the policy terms and 
conditions, in noting the policy doesnt cover the loss.Ive looked to see whether there are any other sections under the policy that might cover Mr 
and Mrs Ls circumstances. But Im satisfied there isnt. The travel delay section covers 
when Mr and Mrs Ls scheduled flight was delayed due to specified reasons. But Mr and Mrs 
Ls scheduled flight wasnt delayed. It still left as it should have. And Mr and Mrs L werent 
cancelling or curtailing their trip. So, these sections dont apply either. 
I do have sympathy for the situation Mr and Mrs L found themselves in. They missed their 
flight through no fault of their own. But, as noted above, their policy doesnt cover every 
eventuality. As is usual, it only covers the events listed. And the event Mr and Mrs L have 
claimed for isnt listed. So, I currently dont find Great Lakes has done anything wrong. Its 
acted fairly and reasonably, in line with the terms of the policy. 
Great Lakes responded, and agreed with the provisional decision, noting it didnt have 
anything further to add. Mr and Mrs L disagreed. But didnt provide any further comments or 
evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Great Lakes Insurance SE to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman