DRN-1779082
The complaint
Mr B complains that Halifax Share Dealing Limited (IWeb) caused unnecessary delays in 
transferring the investments held within his ISA to another provider. He says these delays 
caused him financial loss as well as inconvenience and upset by the delays and his efforts to 
resolve them.
What happened
Mr B held an ISA with IWeb which contained a number of different investments including 
overseas shares. 
In mid-June 2019, Mr B decided to transfer his ISA to a new provider. He placed a request 
through his new provider to start the transfer, which IWeb received on 19 June. On the same 
date, IWeb sent a letter to Mr B confirming receipt of the request. It said it would take 2 to 3 
weeks to transfer his UK shares, and 6 to 8 weeks for his overseas holdings. IWeb also 
wrote to the new provider informing it of Mr Bs current holdings and asking it to provide its 
acceptance, so both IWeb and the new provider could arrange the transfer of Mr Bs assets.
Initially, the new provider said it couldnt accept one of Mr Bs assets. But on 11 July it 
confirmed to IWeb that it could, in fact, take the holding over and the transfer could continue.
In the following weeks Mr Bs UK based assets were transferred to the new provider.. 
Towards the end of July Mr B chased IWeb as his foreign holdings hadnt moved across.
IWeb and the new provider continued to talk to each other in the background, particularly 
about two lines of US stock which the parties repeatedly failed to transfer. These final shares 
were transferred on 5 and 13 September respectively, with the cash balance on Mr Bs 
account also sent from IWeb to the new provider shortly afterwards.
Mr B was unhappy with the time the transfer took and complained to IWeb as he felt it 
caused delays which prevented the transfer from completing sooner and didnt feel the 
blame placed at the new provider was fair. Mr B has said he incurred financial loss from the 
delays and estimates his total loss including what he thinks to be fair compensation to be 
£19,641.72 plus interest.
IWeb considered his complaint and at the time accepted it caused a delay due to an 
administration issue around setting up the transfer for Mr Bs non-UK assets. In offering to 
put that right with Mr B, it offered him £250 for the inconvenience caused  Mr B rejected this 
offer. 
As Mr B didnt think the offer fairly addressed the losses and inconvenience he says he 
incurred, he asked our service to look into what happened further. One of our Investigators 
considered his complaint and found the offer IWeb had already made was fair and didnt 
recommend IWeb do anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B didnt agree with our Investigators findings. He said that as well as still believing 
IWebs offer to be unfair, he couldnt trade during the transfer as the lines of stock had 
disappeared. And had they not, he wouldve sold shares during the transfer period when the 
share price was falling. He also said hed lost out on interest on the cash element which was 
sent later that it ought to have been.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firms are required to transfer ISA assets within a reasonable time and guidelines are 
provided around this  in Mr Bs situation this would be 30 calendar days. However, there 
are practical factors which can cause transfers to take longer than this  such as here the 
dealing of non-UK assets, which can take longer to complete. While this transfer took longer 
than these 30 days, I would expect IWeb to have carried out the transfer as quickly as it 
practically could without causing any unreasonable delays.
Looking at the timeline of events carefully, Ive found IWeb only caused a short 
unreasonable delay  of around 8 working days. There were a number of issues which 
caused the transfer to take as long as it did. But those were, in my view, outside IWebs 
control and so I cant reasonably attribute those  or any losses Mr B says he suffered as a 
result - to IWeb. 
There was an initial delay where the new provider didnt think it could hold some of the 
assets, which prevented the acceptance of the transfer being confirmed. As those concerns 
came from the new provider, they were outside IWebs control and prevented IWeb from 
being able to start the transfer process. So I dont think IWeb can reasonably be held 
responsible for delays caused by that. This issue was resolved on 11 July, which is when Id 
reasonably expect the transfer to be considered started. 
There appears to be some confusion around whether the acceptance of the new provider 
had been given between IWeb and the new provider. Looking through the information 
provided, acceptance would only have been possible once the new provider had confirmed it 
could receive all the assets  on 11 July 2019. IWeb then chased trade and settlement dates 
for the transfer - which were set for 17 to 19 July 2019. From then until 29 July the transfers 
of the UK assets were carried out within a reasonable timeframe.
While these issues clearly caused the transfer to take longer, Ive not seen evidence that 
IWeb either caused these delays or that if it did they were unreasonable.
However, I have found that IWeb ought to have done more when arranging the transfer of Mr 
Bs non-UK assets. It is unclear from the records available when this transfer was initiated 
but I can see the trade and settlement of these assets was arranged on 29 July 2019 and 
agreed to take place on 13 August. This didnt take place due to there being a lack of shares 
with IWebs counterparty to complete the trade. IWeb didnt identify this was holding up the 
transfer until 23 August 2019  8 working days later.
While the issues preventing the trade of these shares arent unusual and are outside IWebs 
control, I find that IWeb ought to have identified this issue sooner than it did. And by not, 
caused an unnecessary delay to Mr Bs transfer during that period. 
Ive gone on to think about what, if any, losses this delay might have caused Mr B. His 
transfer involved shares being transferred in specie and some cash. And ultimately any 
unreasonable delay IWeb caused would have deprived Mr B of the opportunity to do 
something different with those assets. But in order to recommend IWeb compensate Mr B, 
Id need to be satisfied both that there was a likelihood of him having taken a different course of action which would have left him better off, and that he didnt have an opportunity to 
mitigate his losses during the transfer delay.
Mr Bs said with the US stocks which didnt transfer until mid-September, during the time he 
was waiting for the transfer to complete their value fell. He says if the transfer completed 
quicker hed have sold them and reduced the loss he suffered on those investments. 
I note that when IWeb wrote to Mr B at the start of the transfer, it asked him to call them if he 
sold any of his holdings during the transfer. It warned that dealing during the transfer could 
delay things. So Im satisfied that the idea of dealing in his holdings while the transfer was 
taking place ought to have been something Mr B thought was possible, given this letter.
Mr B spoke to IWeb a few times about the delays, pressing for things to speed up. But Ive 
not seen anything to suggest that, at an earlier stage and before the share price fell, Mr B 
specifically mentioned wanting to sell these holdings. Overall Im not persuaded, on balance, 
that Mr B would have been likely to sell these specific shares had his transfer completed 
sooner. And in any event, I think he had an opportunity to do so by calling IWeb and asking 
to sell the shares, had that been what he wanted to do.
I understand Mr B is also unhappy the cash wasnt transferred sooner and believes he is due 
interest from IWeb on that amount due to the delay. It isnt unusual for firms to send the cash 
balance once all the assets have been transferred  for example, an account can still receive 
dividends and income during the transfer period, as well as there being any final fees and 
charges to settle and deduct. Sending at the end saves having to initiate multiple transfers.  
Mr B would have received his cash quicker if the transfer had overall completed sooner. But 
Im not persuaded this caused him any quantifiable financial loss it would be fair to require 
IWeb to pay him. Mr Bs said he should get interest on that cash for the period of the 
transfer. But the account he was transferring to  a stocks and shares ISA with the new 
provider  wouldnt have paid any interest on that money. 
Mr B might have bought some new investments with that cash had things transferred sooner 
(although Im mindful he left it as cash in his IWeb account). But Mr B hasnt said that, or 
pointed to anything in particular he wanted to invest in using those funds. So overall Im not 
persuaded that any delay in the overall transfer, and consequently Mr Bs receipt of those 
funds into his account with the new provider, caused him a loss IWeb ought to compensate 
him for.
In summary, Im satisfied IWeb caused some delay to Mr Bs transfer of his ISA to his new 
provider. In doing so Im persuaded this caused Mr B stress and worry, and deprived him of 
the opportunity to make decisions about his investments for a short period of time. In light of 
that I think its right IWeb compensate him for the distress it caused. In my view the £250 it 
has already offered to pay Mr B is fair compensation.
My final decision
Halifax Share Dealing Limited has already offered to pay Mr B £250 to settle this complaint, 
which I think is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited should pay Mr B £250, if it hasnt done 
so already.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 Luke Gordon
Ombudsman