DRN-4268310
The complaint
Mr C complains that a car acquired with finance from Blue Motor Finance Ltd (BMF) wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In September 2022 Mr C was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with BMF. At the point of supply the car was around 9 years old and had covered 
around 80,770 miles.
Mr C misfuelled the car in October 2022. He took the car to a main dealer who drained the 
fuel, cleaned the spark plugs, added fresh fuel and tested the car. 
In January 2023 Mr C experienced issues with the car not starting. He raised a complaint 
with BMF and advised that when the car started there were fumes coming out of the exhaust 
and the car was leaking oil. Mr C said that there was a fault with the turbo and the engine 
needed replacing.
Mr C advised BMF that a third party garage had already looked at the car and had told him 
that the issue was the turbo and that this had no connection to the misfuel.
BMF spoke to the third party garage. It confirmed that it had changed the coil packs and 
plugs. It said the turbo had failed and the fuel pump was faulty.
BMF also spoke to the main dealer who had carried out the repairs following the  misfuel. It 
advised BMF that when it completed the repairs the car was fine, but that they had advised 
Mr C that issues might be apparent in the near future such as the fuel pump. The main 
dealer said it didnt think the issue with the turbo was related to the misfuel.
BMF arranged an independent inspection of the car to confirm the faults and determine 
whether the faults were linked to the previous misfuel. The inspection report concluded that 
the fuel pump was faulty as a result of the misfuel. The engineer wasnt able to give a 
diagnosis of the turbo because the engine cut out when the car was started.
Based on the findings of the inspection report, BMF didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. It said 
the faults were due to the previous misfuelling of the car.
Mr C wasnt happy with BMFs response, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said she hadnt seen any evidence to suggest 
that the fault with the turbo was related to the misfuel, and that given the cars poor service 
history prior to the point of supply, and the low mileage covered by Mr C since the point of 
supply, it was likely that the fault with the turbo was present or developing at the point of 
supply. The investigator said that BMF should arrange for the turbo to be repaired at no cost 
to Mr C and pay £200 to Mr C for distress and inconvenience. 
BMF didnt agree. It questioned how the third party garage had diagnosed a fault with the 
turbo without being able to test the car. BMF also said it thought that the misfuel had caused 
the temperature of the exhaust gasses to increase causing damage to the turbo.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of 
goods includes their general condition, as well as things like fitness for purpose, appearance 
and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Mr C was around 9 years old and had covered around 80,770 miles at 
the point of supply. Id expect a second hand car to have a degree of wear and tear and to 
require repairs and maintenance sooner than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to uphold 
this complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the fault with the car was present or 
developing at the point of supply as opposed to a fault which occurred due to general wear 
and tear, or for some other reason.  
Ive considered all of the available evidence about the issues with the car. Based on what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that theres a fault with the car. I say this because both the third party 
garage and the independent inspection report state that the fuel pump has a fault and needs 
replacing. Im also satisfied that theres a fault with the turbo. I say this because the third 
party garage told BMF this. Ive also seen evidence from the third party garage to show that 
the turbo charger has been replaced, which I dont think would be necessary unless there 
was a fault with the turbo. 
Ive gone on to consider whether the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
An expert report can help to determine whether a car is of satisfactory quality. Ive reviewed 
the independent inspection report dated 3 February 2023. This states that the issues with 
the fuel pump are linked to the misfuel. It doesnt make any diagnosis of the turbo because 
the engineer wasnt able to start the car. The inspection report doesnt say that the fault with 
the turbo is linked to the misfuel. 
BMF didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint on the basis that the faults were linked to the misfuel. 
But the inspection report doesnt link the fault with the turbo to the misfuel. So I dont think 
this is a fair or reasonable conclusion for BMF to reach.  
Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account, and Ive reviewed the service history. 
Prior to the car being supplied to Mr C in September 2022, I can see that the car was 
serviced in February 2022. Prior to that it hasnt been serviced since July 2020. Prior to July 
2020 the last service was September 2017. 
This service history is relevant when considering what might have caused the fault with the 
turbo. A turbo is designed to last the lifetime of the car (or around 150,000 miles). However, 
its possible for a turbo to wear out over time depending on how the car is driven, and 
whether the car has been regularly serviced. The main causes of turbo failure are oil 
starvation, oil contamination and foreign object damage. If a car hasnt been serviced in line 
with the manufacturers recommended interval, then its likely that the oil hasnt been 
changed as regularly as it should have been, which could result in oil contamination or low 
oil.Mr C had only covered around 473 miles in the car when the fault with the turbo occurred. 
Because the fault arose within the first 6 months of the inception of finance, its assumed 
(under the relevant legislation) that the fault was present or developing at the point of supply. 
I havent seen any persuasive evidence to link the turbo to the misfuel. BMF has made 
reference to the temperature of the exhaust gasses being a cause of the fault but this isnt 
supported by the available evidence. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im persuaded that there was a fault with the turbo 
present or developing at the point of supply. BMF should take steps to put things right. 
Putting things right
Under the relevant legislation, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair the fault. 
However, in this case, Mr C has paid for repairs to the fuel pump and turbo himself. Upon 
provision by Mr C of a receipted invoice or proof of payment, I think BMF should meet the 
costs of the repairs to the turbo. For the avoidance of doubt, Im not asking BMF to meet the 
costs of repairs to the fuel pump or to any other component part, just the turbo. Im aware 
that Mr C has also had the fuel pump repaired. 
Mr C has suffered inconvenience as a result of being supplied with a car which wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. I think its fair to ask BMF to pay compensation of £200 to reflect this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd must:
Refund the cost of repairs to the turbo upon receipt of proof of repairs and proof of payment 
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on the amount refunded calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay £200 for distress and inconvenience 
Remove any adverse information from Mr Cs credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman