DRN-3609576
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited refused to allow the garage repairing her car
to provide a courtesy car following an accident claim under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs B was involved in a car accident in July 2021. She says the local garage appointed to
carry out repairs offered to provide her a courtesy car. The garage contacted Aviva and was
told not to provide one and that she wouldnt be insured to drive it. Mrs B says her policy
provides insurance cover for a loaned vehicle for seven days. She doesnt understand why
Aviva prevented the garage from loaning her a car.
Mrs B hired a car for the final week, whilst repairs were completed, at a cost of £230. She
says Aviva provided no recognition of the trauma caused by the car accident. She thinks the
business should pay her hire car costs and provide an apology.
Aviva says Mrs Bs policy doesnt provide for a courtesy car. It says the garage checked
whether cover was in place to supply a courtesy car and was told it wasnt. It says it checked
again, when a problem with a compressor delayed the repairs. And was again told there was
no entitlement for a courtesy car.
Aviva says its policy provides insurance should Mrs B need to drive a vehicle supplied by a
repairing garage. But the policy doesnt provide for the vehicle to be supplied. In response to
her complaint it offered half the cost of the hire car to recognise that communication couldve
been better.
Mrs B didnt think this outcome was fair, so she referred her complaint to our service. Our
investigator upheld her complaint. He says theres no cover in place for a courtesy car. But
Aviva hadnt made it clear to the garage that Mrs B was covered to drive a loan vehicle,
which it was prepared to offer her. He thought a fair outcome was for Aviva to pay the full
cost of the hire car and £100 compensation for the upset caused.
Mrs B accepted this outcome, but Aviva didnt. It says Mrs B was using one of its approved
repairers that provide courtesy vehicles when the customer has the relevant cover. Aviva
says the garage may have discussed providing a loan car to Mrs B, but it had also checked
whether cover was in place to provide one without charge. It says it told the garage there
was no cover for this.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached Aviva asked for an ombudsman to consider the
complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2022 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mrs 
Bs complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My intention is to not uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs B, but I will explain
why I think my decision is fair.
Ive read Mrs Bs policy schedule as well as the terms and conditions to understand the
cover in place. Her policy renewed in June 2021. I note Aviva sent the renewal documents
earlier that month.
I can see from page two of the policy terms under comprehensive cover that the provision
of a courtesy car is optional. Mrs B had comprehensive cover in place. Referring to her
policy schedule, a courtesy car isnt included under the Your cover section. I think this
shows a courtesy car wasnt available in the event of a claim, under the cover Mrs B chose.
I understand Mrs B acknowledges her policy doesnt provide for a courtesy car. But she
thinks the garage was prepared to supply one had Aviva not intervened to say it shouldnt.
I have seen the claim notes provided by Aviva. A record from mid-August 2021 shows the
contact from the garage and Avivas response. The contact note from the garage says, I
need to confirm if PH is to have a CC or hire please. The response note recorded by Avivas
agent says, Advised no CC and no car hire.
I have thought about Mrs Bs comments that the garage was prepared to supply a courtesy
car, despite her policy not providing cover for this. But I dont think this is what this contact
note shows.
There is a cost associated with providing a courtesy car. Aviva says this service can be
arranged by its approved garage. But I think its argument is persuasive that it will only do so,
without charge to the customer, if the relevant cover is in place. I think it makes sense the
garage would check with Aviva before arranging a courtesy car. And I think its decision not
to provide one was most likely because Aviva told it Mrs B didnt have the relevant cover.
I dont dispute Mrs Bs recollection of her conversations with the garage. But based on the
evidence, I dont think its been shown that the garage wouldve supplied a courtesy car free
of charge. In the circumstances described I think this is likely to be a misunderstanding
between Mrs B and the garage.
Aviva acknowledges that its communication around the courtesy car issue couldve been
better. It offered £126 compensation to acknowledge this, which was around half the cost of
Mrs Bs hire car.
Im sorry Mrs B was distressed by the accident and I hope shes now feeling better. I
acknowledge her comments that she felt let down by Avivas approach to handling her claim.
But I think its offer of compensation is fair in these circumstances.
In summary I dont think Aviva treated Mrs B unfairly or prevented her from receiving a
courtesy car. If it hasnt already done so and Mrs B agrees, Aviva should pay the
compensation it offered for the communication issue it identified. But I cant reasonably ask it
to do any more.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Aviva didnt provide any further comments or information for me to consider. 
Mrs B responded to say that she was at a loss to understand how my provisional decision 
was justified. She says her policy clearly states that she is entitled to a courtesy car. She 
says she recognises she couldve added extra protection to provide a courtesy car for the 
duration of the car repairs. But that she didnt think this was necessary when the policy, 
headline stated she would receive the limited provision of a courtesy car. 
Mrs B says it was her belief when she bought the policy that she would be provided with a 
courtesy car. She says this is written in the policy documents and doesnt understand how 
this can be negated. 
Mrs B says that if there are get out clauses then these should be made clear by Aviva. She 
says it has the resources to push this as far as they can, whilst she doesnt have the 
resources to fight what she perceives to be an injustice. Mrs B supplied a copy of her 
certificate of car insurance and Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) in support of 
her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mrs B holds strong views that her policy entitled her to a courtesy car when 
she made her claim to Aviva. I explained in my provisional decision that a courtesy car can 
be provided under this type of policy, but its an optional extra. This is clearly detailed in the 
policy terms. 
Mrs Bs policy schedule documents the cover she opted for. This didnt include the optional 
courtesy car. In my provisional decision I explained that I was satisfied Mrs B didnt have 
cover for a courtesy car under her policy with Aviva. 
I also considered Mrs Bs comments that the repairing garage was prepared to provide a 
courtesy car  but that Aviva told it not to. Based on the notes recorded by Aviva I thought it 
was clear that the garage made contact with Aviva to check if cover was provided for a 
courtesy car  before it agreed to provide one. No cover was in place, which is what the 
notes show. I thought it was likely that the reason no car was provided by the garage it that 
this would cost it money, and there was no cover to pay for it. 
I have thought about Mrs Bs further comments that her policy does provide for a courtesy 
car and I have read the highlighted sections of the documents she provided in support of 
this. 
Mrs B has highlighted the section of her certificate of insurance that says:
Under terms of section 2 of the policy  Your Liability  [Mrs B] may also drive a motor car 
which:
1) does not belong to them
2) is not a rental car
3) is not hired to them under a hire purchase or leasing agreement Providing they are driving with the owners express consent. 
I dont dispute that this confirms Mrs B can drive other vehicles, and this would include a 
courtesy car, if one was provided. But it doesnt say that her policy will provide a courtesy 
car.
The section from the IPID Mrs B highlights says:
What is insured?
Loaned vehicle cover  well insure a vehicle loaned to you from a garage for up to seven 
days while your vehicle is having mechanical repairs, a service or MOT.
Again, this confirms cover is provided for Mrs B to drive a loaned vehicle. But it doesnt say a 
loan vehicle will be provided. 
In summary, although I accept Mrs Bs policy covers her to drive a courtesy car  it doesnt 
cover the cost of the car to be provided. I dont think Aviva prevented the repairing garage 
from providing a car, which it was prepared to do free of charge. So, because of this Im not 
persuaded that I need to change my decision.   
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman