DRN-3629056
The complaint
Mr M complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly declined 
his life claim. 
Mr M has been helped in bringing his complaint to us by a representative. But for ease, Ill 
refer to Mr M throughout this decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill only refer to some key 
events here.
In December 2010 Mr and Mrs M took out life assurance and income protection policies with 
L&G. The couple were both sent copies of their application responses to check and Mrs M 
confirmed all details were correct. Cover started on 23 December 2010 and was due to run 
until December 2026. 
Mrs M sadly died in August 2020. The cause of death was recorded as acute alcohol toxicity 
and chronic alcoholism. Mr M made a claim to L&G. 
L&G declined the claim because it said Mrs M hadnt disclosed accurate information about 
her alcohol consumption and psychiatric care. It cancelled both the policies and refunded the 
premiums. 
Mr M asked L&G to reconsider its decision. It remained of the view Mrs M hadnt disclosed 
her full medical history on the 2010 application and so it didnt change its position. 
Mr M referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. After looking into it, our 
investigator thought L&G had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Mr M didnt agree and so his complaint has come to me to consider. He said L&G shouldve 
obtained Mrs Ms medical records at the time of the application so they couldve looked for 
cover elsewhere if L&G had made it clear from the outset it wasnt able to offer cover. 
Mr M said because L&G didnt carry out medical checks sooner, hed had a legitimate 
expectation that the policies would pay out. And has now been left in a difficult financial 
situation. Mr M wanted L&G to at least pay a proportion of the sum assured. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to offer my sincere condolences to Mr M and to acknowledge that hes brought 
this complaint under very difficult and upsetting circumstances. But while I dont want to add 
to his distress, Im not upholding the complaint. I realise this will be a very great 
disappointment to him, but Ill explain my reasons.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
In considering this complaint, Ive taken account of the relevant rules and regulations  the 
main one here being the Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly  ABI Code of 
Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and Income 
Protection Insurance Products September 2019 (ABI 2019). This follows the Financial 
Ombudsmans long-standing approach to complaints like this. 
Ill need to consider whether Mrs M acted honestly and reasonably in all the circumstances 
when answering the application questions. And whether she took reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation and if not, whether that misrepresentation was innocent, 
careless, or reckless or deliberate. Ill then need to consider whether L&G has applied the 
correct remedy for that misrepresentation, which are set out in the ABI 2019.                                                                                                                                                                                                            
Did Mrs M act honestly and reasonably and take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation? 
Mrs Ms part of the application asked the following questions (answers in bold):
What is your average weekly consumption of alcohol in units?
A unit of alcohol is equivalent to half a pint of beer, lager or cider, one standard glass of wine 
or a single measure of spirits. (5)
In the last 5 years has your average alcohol consumption ever been higher than your current 
average? (No)
Have you ever been medically advised to reduce your alcohol? (No)
Have you ever had any of the following: 
 Mental illness that has required hospital treatment or referral to a psychiatrist? (No)
In the last 5 years have you had medical advice for any of the following: 
 Anxiety, depression, or any form of nervous, mental or eating disorder for which you have
had counselling or been prescribed treatment? (No)
Im satisfied these questions made clear to Mrs M what information was relevant to L&G. 
L&G thinks Mrs M shouldve answered yes to these questions and that she hadnt been 
honest about her weekly alcohol consumption. It referred to extensive medical evidence, 
from both before and after the policy was in place, which showed Mrs M had been 
diagnosed with alcohol dependency in 2007 and been advised to reduce her alcohol 
consumption prior to the policy start date. L&G said the medical evidence also showed Mrs M had a long-standing history of bulimia, psychiatric therapy, and alcohol abuse. And 
referred to an assessment in 2017 where Mrs M said shed struggled with alcohol for around 
15 years. 
Mr M hasnt disputed L&Gs interpretation of the medical evidence, and from my 
consideration, theres no doubt Mrs M shouldve answered these questions differently. 
Sadly, Mrs M isnt around to ask, and we dont know why she answered the questions on the 
application as she did. Mr M told L&G that he was present when the application was 
completed, but that he had no idea about Mrs Ms medical history at the time.  
I dont doubt what Mr M says, but given the severity of Mrs Ms alcohol abuse and how long 
this, and her psychiatric treatments, had been ongoing  I cant say she acted honestly and 
reasonably or took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when completing the 
application. Mr M has said Mrs M was there when the application was completed, and so 
was able to provide the relevant information first-hand. I can see from the medical records 
that she was able to recall these issues, that the medical records indicate long predated the 
application, when discussing her medical history with medics in 2017. So, on balance, I think 
its more likely than not Mrs M wouldve known the full extent of her medical history when 
she completed the application in 2010. 
I appreciate Mr Ms point that he was unaware of Mrs Ms health history, but that doesnt 
negate the need for the information to be accurate from both applicants. These were joint 
policies, and both those assured are required to separately answer questions on the 
application concerning their own medical history and lifestyle. One party isnt expected to 
answer the questions for both applicants, and both applicants are required to sign the 
application confirming the information theyve provided is correct, which Mrs M did. 
Mr and Mrs M were also told of the importance of providing accurate information on the 
application, and the implications of not doing so:
We understand that if we do not give all of the requested information truthfully and 
accurately it will very likely mean that a claim will be declined and the policies cancelled.
Taking all this into account, I believe its likely Mrs M knew about her alcohol abuse and 
psychiatric care when the policies were applied for and had been made aware of the 
implications of not disclosing it. And so, I dont think she took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Did the misrepresentation make a difference?
L&G has provided retrospective underwriting to show that if it had known about Mrs Ms 
alcohol dependency and history of psychiatric care it wouldnt have offered cover. And so, I 
think Mrs Ms misrepresentation made a difference to the underwriting outcome.
Under the ABI 2019, a misrepresentation can be categorised as innocent, careless, or 
reckless or deliberate. Given Mrs Ms long history of alcohol abuse and psychiatric care, I 
dont consider her misrepresentation to be innocent.  L&G has categorised this 
misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless, but in terms of the action its taken, its treated it 
no worse than if it were careless. Both classifications however allow an insurer to avoid the 
policies when, had the correct information been disclosed in the application, cover wouldnt 
have been offered. The difference between the classifications though is that premiums 
should be refunded for careless misrepresentation whereas they can be retained by the 
insurer if classified as deliberate or reckless. Given L&G has refunded the premiums, Im satisfied its provided Mr M the most favourable remedy under the ABI 2019. I think this is 
fair.
If the retrospective underwriting had shown that cover wouldve still been offered despite the 
misrepresentation, but on different terms, then under a classification of careless a proportion 
of the sum assured mightve been paid. But when cover wouldve been declined, as was the 
case here, the policy is treated as if it never existed. And so, any claim would be fully 
declined on that basis. I cant therefore ask L&G to pay a proportion of the sum assured. 
Mr M thinks L&G shouldve done more medical checks when the application was taken out, 
so he and Mrs M wouldve known sooner that cover was declined rather than have an 
expectation that a claim would be paid. Unfortunately, that isnt how insurance works. 
Insurers base their medical underwriting decisions on the medical information applicants 
provide on the application form. The questions are designed to provide information to an 
insurer on the risks associated with offering cover. It might seek more medical information at 
the application stage, but that isnt routine, or indeed practical to do on every application. A 
decision to get more information from medics or from the applicant themselves is based on 
the responses the applicant provides. This was made clear on the application Mr and Mrs M 
completed:
[L&G] will try to rely on the information you provide and you must not assume that they will 
always clarify that information with your doctor (GP).
Mrs M didnt provide any information that alerted L&G to the possibility that she had alcohol 
dependency or a history of psychiatric illness. And so, it had no reason to seek more 
information at the application stage. I cant say L&G did anything wrong here. 
Taking everything into account, I think L&Gs decision to decline Mr Ms claim, cancelling the 
policies and returning the premiums was fair and reasonable. I can also see that L&G 
contacted Mr M with possible options for his cover to continue. So, I wont be asking it to 
take any action. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman