DRN-3046432
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain about how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. dealt with a claim against their travel insurance policy. Reference to 
Mapfre includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in September 2019, Mr F booked accommodation for a UK trip 
between 22 May 2020 and 29 May 2020. He told the accommodation provider that there 
would be five people staying at the accommodation. In November 2019, Mr and Mrs F 
renewed their annual travel insurance policy underwritten by Mapfre. 
On 23 March 2020, the UK government announced wide-ranging restrictions on 
movement, commonly referred to as lockdown. The government announcement 
included an instruction to stay at home other than for a limited list of essential reasons. 
Those restrictions remained in place at the time of Mr and Mrs Fs intended departure. 
Mr and Mrs Fs accommodation provider cancelled Mr Fs booking and didnt refund the 
deposit.
Mr and Mrs F made a claim against their policy for the unrecovered deposit. Mapfre 
agreed to pay 2/5ths of the claim. It said of the five people travelling, only Mr and Mrs F 
were insured under the policy. Mapfre apologised for delay in dealing with                      
Mr and Mrs Fs claim and paid them compensation of £50 in relation to that.  
Mr and Mrs F say that they booked and paid for the trip then invited family members to 
join them. They dont think its fair for Mapfre to reduce the settlement of their claim on 
the basis of the number of guests they invited to stay with them. Mr and Mrs F said that 
the other guests werent contributing to the cost and the cost of the accommodation 
remained the same regardless of the number of people who stayed there. They want 
Mapfre to pay the remainder of their claim with interest, to pay compensation for their 
distress and inconvenience and to apologise.    
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Mapfre had 
acted unfairly in paying a proportion of Mr and Mrs Fs claim. The investigator thought 
that Mapfres payment of £50 in relation to its delay in dealing with Mr and Mrs Fs claim 
was fair. 
Mr and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigator. They said that the cost of the 
accommodation is the same regardless of how many people stay at the property. Mr and 
Mrs F say that they book accommodation and invite family members to attend, who may 
or may not do so. They say that only they have an insurable interest here. Mr and Mrs F 
say that the exclusion on which Mapfre relies is for situations where the cost of the 
holiday varies according to the number of people in the party. They asked that an 
ombudsman consider their complaint, so it was passed to me to decide.  
 
Mr and Mrs F have also expressed concern about how Mapfre handled their complaint. Our 
service can only consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the 
additional points that Mr and Mrs F have raised about the handling of their complaint 
because it isnt a regulated activity.
I note that Mr and Mrs F dont seek further compensation in relation to how Mapfre handled 
their claim, so I dont address that further. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which are as 
follows:  
A - Cancelling and cutting short your holiday
What you are covered for
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below we will 
pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on page 5 for:
Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have agreed to 
pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local prepaid 
excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot avoid cancelling or 
cutting short your trip; 
[]
The following are reasons we will accept for you cancelling or cutting short your trip:
[]
9. You cannot commence travel to your intended destination due to the (FCO) Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office advice for your destination/location changing to as a minimum all
but essential travel after the purchase of your policy or after the booking of any individual 
trip, whichever is the latter. []
Special conditions which apply to section A
[]
2. We will only consider the unused expenses of a person who has taken out insurance 
cover with InsureandGo. For example, if you are travelling with someone who is not
insured, we only pay your proportion of costs not theirs, regardless of who has paid for the 
booking.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint because I dont think that Mapfre treated them 
unfairly in paying a proportion of their claim. I say that because:
As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs Fs policy provides cover for certain expenses 
following cancellation of a trip as a result of advice from the Foreign, Commonwealth 
& Development Office.Mr F booked and paid for the accommodation and I accept that Mr and Mrs F invited 
family members to join them and didnt seek or receive a contribution towards the 
accommodation costs. But thats not the end of the matter.
Mr F booked accommodation for five people, but the benefits of the policy only apply 
to Mr and Mrs F, as they are the only people insured under the policy. Mr and Mrs Fs 
family members who hoped to join them on the trip are not insured under this policy. 
The policy contains an exclusion which says that Mapfre will only consider the 
unused expenses of a person who is insured under the policy and gives an example  
 if you are travelling with someone who is not insured, we only pay your proportion 
of costs not theirs, regardless of who has paid for the booking. 
Mapfre specifically set out that regardless of who paid for the booking, only the 
insureds proportion can be claimed. In this case, that means that Mr and Mrs F were 
able to claim 2/5th of the unrecovered accommodation deposit, as there were five 
people benefitting from the accommodation, but only Mr and Mrs F were insured 
under the policy. 
I dont agree that the exclusion on which Mapfre relies is for situations where the cost 
of the holiday varies according to the number of people in the party. Theres nothing 
in the policy to support that interpretation. 
I think that the exclusion is clear and that Mapfre is entitled to rely on it. So, I dont 
think that Mapfre treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly when it settled their claim on payment 
of their proportion of the accommodation costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman