DRN-3499961
The complaint
Mr W complains about the amount hes been charged by Lex Autolease Ltd, trading as 
Volvo Car Leasing, at the end of his car hire agreement and about the poor service hes 
received.
What happened
Mr W signed a 48-month car hire agreement in August 2017. In March 2021 he chose to end 
the agreement early. His main complaint points are:
He agrees with the damage listed in the inspection report. But he doesnt think the 
amount hes been charged is fair because it doesnt equate to an actual loss suffered by 
Lex Autolease.
He told Lex Autolease he disputed the charge and told it not to use the direct debit 
arrangement to obtain the amount it said he owed. Lex Autolease debited his joint 
account and tried to cover up its error by starting a new email chain.
During the dispute, he received poor service.
Lex Autolease reviewed the damage charges and concluded some of the damage couldnt 
be properly evidenced. It agreed to reduce the charges by £432, having already waived 
£100, and it sent Mr W a cheque for £25 for failing to respond to one of his letters.
Our investigator concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to fairly charge for damage to 
the front bumper and that the charge of £125 should be removed. And that Lex Autolease 
should pay Mr W an additional £25 for not clearly explaining how much he owed on 
termination.
Lex Autolease agreed.
Mr W didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I explained my role was to resolve individual complaints and that Mr Ws wider concerns 
about Lex Autoleases practices were more a matter for the regulator. 
I provisionally decided that Lex Autolease should:
1. Write off the amount of £370.02 that it says Mr W owes it following termination of the 
agreement.
2. Reduce the amount of damage charges by £125, leaving Mr W with £494 to pay.
3. Refund Mr W for the cost of rental from 1 April 2021 to 10 April 2021 inclusive, plus 
interest at 8% simple per year from the date the rental was paid to the date it is refunded.
4. Pay Mr W £175 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I explained the reasons why Id come to that decision. I said:
Damage charges
The agreed terms and conditions of the hire agreement say:
The vehicle must be returned in good order, repair and condition (fair wear 
and tear excepted). (9(b))
If the Vehicle when returned is not in good order, repair and condition for its 
age and mileage assessed in accordance with guidelines issued by the British 
Vehicle Rental and Leasing Associationyou must also pay us the actual 
or if we choose, the estimated cost of the work required to put the Vehicle in 
such condition. We shall not be required to carry out repairs to the Vehicle 
prior to its disposal by us. (9(d))
Mr W complains on a point of principle  that he should only be charged for any 
actual loss made by Lex Autolease. He agrees there is damage to the car but thinks 
everything could be fixed for around £200. But he also thinks the fact that hed 
bought two new tyres (which he didnt realise were covered under the terms of the 
agreement), should be taken into account.
BVRLA guidance allows Lex Autolease to charge for repairs, even if they are not 
carried out. Theres no requirement on Lex Autolease to only seek compensation for 
its actual loss. Rather, the aim it to fairly compensate Lex Autolease for the cost of 
repairing the car, or for the lower sale value its likely to receive because of the 
damage. I dont find Lex Autolease has treated Mr W unfairly or unreasonably by 
assessing the damage using an independent third party and in applying its damage 
rate matrix.
Mr W says BVRLA guidance requires the method of repair to be included in the 
invoice. I find that, whilst the method of repair wasnt included in the invoice, it was 
included in the vehicle condition report, which also listed the costs of repair. So 
I think Mr W was reasonably given the information required by BVRLA.
The total charges for damage amounted to £1,151. A waiver of £100 was deducted 
from the total. Following his complaint, Lex Autolease agreed to deduct charges of 
£432. This left £619 payable (not £719 as stated in its final response letter).
Our investigator recommended that the charge for repair of the front bumper was 
removed because the damage didnt seem to have exceeded BVRLAs fair wear and 
tear guidelines. Lex Autolease agreed to deduct £125 from its invoice, leaving £494 
payable. I find this sum is fairly owed by Mr W.
I appreciate Mr W paid for two new tyres, but I dont find theres any obligation on Lex 
Autolease to refund him for the cost.
The direct debit
Mr W says that whilst a direct debit arrangement was in place, he told Lex Autolease 
not to use it to claim the damage charges whilst he was disputing them. I find Mr W 
had made it very clear in several emails that he didnt authorise Lex Autolease to collect the money it said he owed through the direct debit arrangement. And, whilst it 
felt the disputes process had been exhausted, it was clear Mr W was considering 
what further action he could take. I dont find Lex Autolease should have collected 
the money through the direct debit arrangement. Mr W was able to reclaim this 
through his bank under its direct debit guarantee scheme. I find Lex Autolease 
should compensate Mr W for the inconvenience it caused him and for the upset it 
caused in proceeding to claim the money through the direct debit arrangement when 
Mr W had clearly told it not to. I consider £75 to be fair and reasonable.
The amount due on termination
Lex Autolease told us it wasnt able to find any correspondence about the termination 
of the agreement. So I dont think its clear how much it told Mr W he would owe 
when he terminated the agreement early.
Lex Autolease told us that the car was collected on 31 March 2021. So I dont think 
its fair that Mr W pays for rental after that date. I can see rental of £370.02 for the 
period from 11 March to 10 April 2021 was collected by direct debit. I think Lex 
Autolease should provide a pro-rata refund, plus interest, for the period from 1 April 
to 10 April to reflect that Mr W didnt have use of the car after 31 March 2021.
Mr W told us that he understood the final payment due on termination to be £246.68 
and that is what hes paid. But Lex Autolease says Mr W still owes £370.02. I fully 
understand its explanation about the incorrect invoice for rental for the period 11 April 
to 10 May and the fact that this was wrongly credited against the termination amount 
due. But it hasnt provided evidence to show that it told Mr W that he would need to 
pay £616.70 to terminate the agreement. Mr W says he was told the final payment 
was £246.68. I also find that, following his complaint, Lex Autolease failed to make it 
clear to Mr W why he still owed £370.02. For failing to clearly evidence what Mr W 
owed and for failing to clearly explain to him what he needed to pay and why, I think 
its fair it writes off the amount of £370.02 that it says Mr W owes.
Customer service
Lex Autolease sent a cheque to Mr W for £25 as compensation for failing to respond 
to his letter dated 28 May 2021. Mr W did not cash this cheque. Lex Autolease may 
need to reissue a cheque if the original has now expired or been destroyed.
Our investigator recommended Lex Autolease should pay an additional £25 for the 
trouble and upset it caused in not clearly explaining how much Mr W needed to pay 
on termination of the agreement. Lex Autolease has agreed to this payment.
But I can also see that Mr W should have received better service when he disputed 
the damage charges and when he complained. For example, Lex Autolease phoned 
him on two occasions to discuss his complaint whilst acknowledging his request for 
all communication to be in writing. I think £100 compensation more fairly reflects the 
distress and inconvenience that Lex Autoleases service has caused.
Mr W is concerned that Lex Autolease tried to cover up its mistake in claiming the 
damage charges by direct debit by starting a new email chain which, he says, was to 
make it look like he hadnt responded within Lex Autoleases timescale. I appreciate 
his strength of feeling on this matter, but there isnt enough evidence for me to 
conclude that Lex Autolease deliberately took action to hide anything from Mr W.
Debt collection lettersMr W has expressed concern about the content and tone of Lex Autoleases debt 
collection letters. But, as noted earlier, my role is to decide if Lex Autolease did 
anything wrong in the individual circumstances here. My role doesnt extend to 
commenting on its correspondence more generally.
Mr W agreed with my provisional decision and said he would pay the amount he still owed.
Lex Autolease agreed points 2 to 4 of my decision. But it didnt agree to write off the amount 
of £370.02 that it says Mr W owes it following termination of the agreement. It said its invoice 
sent to Mr W on 7 April 2021 clearly outlined the cost to terminate the agreement and that 
this would also have been set out in the termination quote, which it cant access because the 
member of staff who dealt with the termination has left. It said the full cost to terminate the 
agreement was made clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lex Autolease has accepted the majority of my provisional decision. In view of its comments 
about the amount due on termination of the agreement, Ive reconsidered all the information 
about this. But I dont find a reason to depart from my earlier conclusion. Let me explain why.
Lex Autolease has provided its invoice dated 7 April 2021 for £616.70 described as Cost 
incurred to terminate the above contract. But, by the time he received this invoice, Mr W 
had already returned the termination paperwork and the car had been collected. Ive not 
seen evidence to show what information he was given before he decided to terminate the 
agreement. So Im not persuaded Lex Autolease made it clear to him how much he would 
have to pay to terminate the agreement.
Mr W told us he understood the sum of £246.68 would be due on termination and this is 
what he paid. In the circumstances I dont think its fair that he should be required to pay any 
more and that Lex Autolease should write off the sum of £370.02 that it says Mr W still owes.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd, trading as Volvo 
Car Leasing, should:
1. Write off the amount of £370.02 that it says Mr W owes it following termination of the 
agreement.
2. Reduce the amount of damage charges by £125, leaving Mr W with £494 to pay.
3. Refund Mr W for the cost of rental from 1 April 2021 to 10 April 2021 inclusive, plus 
interest at 8% simple per year from the date the rental was paid to the date it is 
refunded.*
4. Pay Mr W £175 for the distress and inconvenience caused. For the avoidance of doubt, 
this includes the £25 Lex Autolease has already offered and paid to Mr W by way of a 
cheque.* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lex Autolease Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Lex 
Autolease must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman