DRN-3081882
The complaint
Mr B complains MBNA Limited continues to report a default on his credit file despite having 
sold the debt to another business. 
What happened
Mr B had a credit card with MBNA that was closed and defaulted in October 2019. MBNA 
reported the default and outstanding balance on Mr Bs credit file. 
MBNA sold the debt to a third party business (A) in December 2019 and marked the default 
balance as settled on Mr Bs credit file. A recorded a new default entry on Mr Bs credit file 
that gave details of the outstanding balance. 
Mr B contacted MBNA and has told us staff members advised its default entry should be 
removed from his credit file. But when Mr B complained, MBNA responded and said it noted 
his account had been sold on his credit file but wouldnt delete the entry. 
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and explained he felt it was unfair for MBNA and A 
to record separate entries on his credit file for the same debt. Our investigator didnt uphold 
Mr Bs complaint and said industry guidance issued by the Information Commissioners 
Office (ICO) advised two entries can be reported if its clear they relate to the same debt. 
The investigator didnt ask MBNA to amend Mr Bs credit file and he asked to appeal. As a 
result, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has said, the ICO issued guidance concerning how debts are recorded 
on a consumers credit file. The ICO says two entries can be recorded if its clear they relate 
to the same debt. I need to decide whether MBNA has acted fairly by declining to remove its 
entry and whether its clear the entries in question relate to the same debt. 
In its submissions to our service, MBNA has provided systems evidence that shows what 
information it reports to the credit reference agencies. MBNA reports that Mr Bs credit card 
defaulted in October 2019 along with a payment profile. In addition, MBNA reports that the 
current default balance is £0 and that the debt was sold to another business in December 
2019. Im satisfied thats accurate in the circumstances. 
Mr B has told us he cant find anything on this credit file that shows the debt was marked as 
sold. I appreciate that may be the case, but the credit file information Mr B has provided 
shows MBNA is reporting the account as settled with a £0 balance. MBNA cant say what 
information the credit reference agencies give on their reports and Im satisfied the 
information its recorded is accurate. 
I can see that A appears to be recording the debt as being in relation to a bank account 
rather than a credit card on Mr Bs credit file. I appreciate that makes it look like a different 
debt, but thats not something I can reasonably say MBNA is responsible for and is 
something Mr B would need to take up directly with A to address. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but Im satisfied industry guidance produced by the ICO does 
allow two entries to be made on a consumers credit file for the same debt. And Im satisfied 
MBNA is recorded accurate information about the circumstances surrounding the closure 
and sale of Mr Bs credit card account. 
I understand Mr B was given conflicting information by different parts of MBNA and that he 
was initially told its entry should be deleted. But MBNAs final response sets out its approach 
and Im unable to agree its made a mistake or treated him unfairly in this case. Im sorry to 
disappoint Mr B but as Im satisfied MBNA dealt with his complaint fairly Im not telling it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman