DRN-3177776
The complaint
Mr S complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly allowed him to open a credit card 
account which was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr S sys the account was opened in July 2011 and it ought to have been obvious to Vanquis 
that the lending was unaffordable. He says he had other debts and a poor credit history. Mr 
S says he had defaults recorded against him and would like all interest and charges 
refunded on his Vanquis account as well as interest paid on that refund.
Vanquis says the complaint has been brought too late for us to consider and doesnt give us 
permission to look at the account opening complaint out of time. It says the credit limit was 
increased in 2016 from £250 to £1,000 and Mr S managed his account appropriately until 
2020. Vanquis says it did carry out appropriate checks on the 2016 increase and considered 
Mr Ss income of nearly £40,000 and his debts which it calculated at just over £5,000. It says 
the it had been some years since adverse information had been recorded on Mr Ss credit 
file.
Mr S brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought the main part of the complaint had been brought too late for us to consider. And that 
Vanquis had carried out appropriate checks on the 2016 credit limit increase.
Mr S doesnt accept that view and says he shouldnt have been given the credit limit 
increase in 2016 if he had received default charges previously.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I can see 
from Mr Ss response to the investigators view that he doesnt ask me to look at again at the 
time limit point. But I make clear that I would have also come to the same conclusion as the 
investigator that we couldnt have looked into the account opening complaint. As Mr S 
doesnt dispute that part of the investigators view then there is no need for me to set out in 
detail my decision on that.
Lenders and credit providers must carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending decision or as in this case a decision to increase a credit limit. Those checks will of 
course vary depending on the type and amount of any lending. And I wouldnt have expected 
Vanquiss checks to have been as detailed here as for example for a mortgage or loan 
application, but appropriate checks must be carried out.
I can see that Mr S declared an income just under £40,000 and that the account problems 
took place mainly some years before 2016. I appreciate that Mr S exceeded his credit limit of 
£250 by what I think was a very small amount before the increase, but I am also satisfied 
that Vanquis did carry out checks on Mr Ss financial position before increasing the credit 
limit. I can see that it considered his account management, his regular payments and his 
other debts which I think was relatively low at about £5,000. So, Im satisfied that Vanquis 
did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before increasing the credit limit.
Im also satisfied that Vanquis had given Mr S a very modest credit limit of £250 and 
increased it to what I think was still a relatively modest amount of £1,000. I can see that Mr S 
used the new balance shortly after it was approved but I cant fairly hold Vanquis responsibly 
for the type of spending which doesnt suggest financial difficulties. I also think Mr S made 
required payments for some time after the credit limit increase which I think provides 
additional evidence that the increase was on the face of it affordable.
Overall, Im satisfied Vanquis did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on the 
credit limit increase and so I cant fairly order it to refund interest or charges.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman