DRN-3550297
The complaint
Mr K complains that Capquest Debt Recovery Limited unfairly contacted him about a debt 
that was included in a discharged bankruptcy.
What happened
Capquest held an account in Mr Ks name and appointed another business (N) to contact 
him about the debt in 2016. Mr K was made bankrupt in 2018 and N was informed. 
Mr K has sent us evidence to show his bankruptcy was discharged in November 2019. 
In 2021 Capquest sent Mr K a statement. Mr K went on to raise a complaint and pointed out 
his bankruptcy had been discharged several years earlier. Capquest responded to Mr Ks 
complaint but didnt agree it had made a mistake and said it hadnt been notified when his 
bankruptcy was discharged. 
An investigator at this service upheld Mr Ks complaint. They said Capquest hadnt asked 
Mr K to tell it when his bankruptcy ended or that it needed a copy of his discharge certificate. 
The investigator asked Capquest to pay Mr K £100 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. The investigators view was issued in April 2022 but, despite several follow ups, no 
response from Capquest was received. As Capquest didnt respond to the investigators 
recommendations, Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capquest says its files and Mr Ks account remained open as it didnt receive a copy of his 
bankruptcy discharge certificate. Ive looked at the information Capquest has provided and 
havent identified anything that shows it or N asked Mr K to forward a bankruptcy discharge 
certificate to confirm his status. Had it done so, Im satisfied Mr K wouldve complied. 
Instead, Capquests file remained open and it sent him a statement for an account he 
thought had been closed several years earlier. I can see that Mr K quickly highlighted his 
concerns to Capquest and that the issue has caused him some distress and inconvenience. 
In my view, a compensation payment of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused 
fairly reflects the impact on Mr K. 
As Capquest didnt respond to the investigator and Im satisfied a settlement of £100 is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve Mr Ks complaint, Im going to uphold his case on that basis. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Capquest Debt Recovery Limited to 
pay Mr K £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman