DRN-2305690
The complaint
B and B, a partnership, complains that H & H Insurance Brokers Limited didnt tell it about an 
important requirement of its commercial motor insurance policy so that a claim was 
repudiated by its insurer. It wants H & H to make good its losses. This complaint is brought 
on B and Bs behalf by its partners, Mr B and Mrs B. B and B is represented in this matter by 
Mr W. 
What happened
A worker using B and Bs tractor had an accident and B and B made a claim on its policy. 
The insurer declined the claim as it said B and B hadnt disclosed the workers driving 
convictions. It said cover wouldnt have been provided if it had known of them. B and B said 
that H & H hadnt made it aware they needed to disclose the workers driving convictions. 
But H & H said it had done this at each renewal. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought H & H 
had reasonably drawn the disclosure requirement to B and Bs attention in the pre-renewal 
interview, as shown by H & Hs checklist. And she thought the requirement was also clearly 
stated in the policy documents for 2017 and 2018. So she thought it was for B and B to 
check that the worker had a suitable driving licence and to disclose any convictions. 
Mr W replied that H & H hadnt made B and B aware of the requirement for disclosure of the 
workers driving history.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that B and B has also complained to the insurer about the repudiation of its claim. 
This is a separate business, so I wont consider that here. What I have considered is the 
level of service provided by H & H in administering the policy. 
Mr W has provided detailed submissions. Whilst I have considered all of these, were an 
evidence-based service. So I shall concentrate on the evidence that I think is relevant to B 
and Bs complaint against the broker, H & H. Mr W asked me to wait for him to provide a 
further submission. But B and Bs complaint has been with us for a year. And I think I have 
sufficient evidence to make a decision. 
H & H has explained that B and B has held a policy through it for some years. Each year, 
prior to renewal, its agent met with the partners, Mr B and Mrs B, to complete a pre-renewal 
questionnaire. Ive seen the questionnaire that was completed for the 2017 and 2018 
renewals. 
Amongst the questions that Mr B and Mrs B were asked, were questions about additional 
drivers they might have. They were asked if any drivers had any motoring convictions in the 
past five years. And, did any drivers not hold valid licences. The response ticked was none. 
I can also see that both questionnaires have notes which H & H say were made by the agent 
to confirm that shed covered the specific items of convictions, health and not leaving keys in 
an unattended vehicle. 
Mr W said that the visits by the agent were social rather than formal. But I have to rely on the 
evidence provided. The questionnaires are annotated with changes to be made at various 
points. So I think, on balance, that the agent was diligent in covering the various questions. 
And I think the completed questionnaires show that H & H reasonably brought the need to 
disclose drivers convictions to Mr B and Mrs Bs attention. 
Mr W thought the agent should have made Mr B and Mrs B aware of how to check driving 
licences for convictions. But I dont agree. I think it was for Mr B and Mrs B to ensure that 
anyone driving their vehicles, under their policy, met the policy terms and conditions. I think if 
they were unsure of how driving convictions were recorded, they could have enquired. 
Mr W was concerned that H & H had changed B and Bs insurer in 2016 or 2017 and wanted 
evidence that a policy document had been sent to it then. But I think the policy document for 
2018 is the one relevant to the complaint. 
Mr W said H & H didnt send the 2018 policy document to Mr B and Mrs B. But Ive seen 
evidence from H & H that the 2018 policy document was sent. This is because the pack 
including the policy document also contained H & Hs invoice which was later settled by 
cheque. I think if Mr B and Mrs B didnt receive the policy document, then they should 
reasonably asked H & H for a further copy. 
I can see that the policy, on page 23, has the following term:
12) Disclosure Requirements
You must notify us as soon as possible of any alteration in risk which materially affects your
policy.
Material information would include
c) The history of any driver.
I think this is a common term in commercial motor insurance policies, and I dont find it 
unusual or unreasonable. But it is significant, and I would expect it to be set out in the policy 
wording and elsewhere in the policy documents. And, I think it was and so I think H & H took 
sufficient measures to draw it to Mr B and Mrs Bs attention. 
I can also see that the policy allows any person to drive B and Bs vehicles, subject to its 
permission and the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr W was concerned that the agent didnt take Mr B and Mrs B through all the policy 
wording. But I dont think that was required. I think the agent did draw their attention to the 
need to disclose convictions, amongst other things. And the policy documents sufficiently 
draw the policyholders attention to what is required. I think it was for Mr B and Mrs B to read 
and agree with these requirements to ensure that the policy met their needs.  
H & H then sent Mr B and Mrs B the renewal documents. Within these, they were reminded 
of the need to provide accurate information. And, with their invoices for 2017 and 2018, was 
a section called Important Notice  Fair Presentation, in which they were told of the need to 
tell the insurers of any change in risk, including any convictions. 
So, I think H & H made Mr B and Mrs B reasonably aware that they needed to tell it if any 
drivers had motoring convictions within the past five years. I think it also made it clear that 
the information on the policy documents needed to be accurate and that they needed to tell it about any changes. So I cant say that H & H has made any errors or needs to be 
responsible for B and Bs losses.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B and B to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 February 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman