DRN-4021445
The complaint
Ms B complains through her representative (A) that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link)
didnt fairly or reasonably deal with her complaint under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit
Act 1974 (CCA) in respect of a holiday product purchased on 28 February 2008.
.
What happened
Ms B and Mr W bought a holiday membership which consisted of a right to use a boat for a
certain week in a year, from a company Ill call PV on 28 February 2008. The holiday
membership was provided by another company Ill call SC. The cost was £7,995, and Ms B
took out a point of sale loan from a financial services company (which Ill call G) to pay for
the membership. G advised that the account was transferred, as part of a larger portfolio
sale, to Link on 19 March 2010. From this date Link assumed responsibility for the ongoing
management and administration of the account. Also as part of that transfer the obligation of
G to respond to queries regarding an assigned debt expired 2 years after the relevant sale
date in respect of that assigned debt. The loan was in Ms Bs name only, so shes the
eligible complainant.
The funds were paid to a trust company and in exchange SC supplied Ms B with a
membership certificate which gave her:
Rights of occupation of a boat, for one floating week in alternate years until 2033; and
Exchange company membership  which was described as a worldwide holiday 
exchange company.
Ms B says this wasnt a timeshare, although it appears to have all the characteristics of a
timeshare. She says the nature of the membership was misrepresented to her and that a
director of SC was convicted of fraud in the selling of holidays. SC was taken over by
another company but this company went into liquidation in August 2016 so Ms B no longer
has any rights of use of the boat.
Ms B made several allegations of misrepresentation in respect of the sale of the product and
made a claim under s75 CCA to G. A also alleged that PV was part of SCs corporate 
structure and that PV was an associated company of SC.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, our Investigator said that it was unclear if
there was a Debtor-Creditor-Supplier (DCS) chain between G and PV, but in any case
Ms Bs claim under s75 CCA for misrepresentation was out of time under the LA as she
didnt assert her claim until November 2016, more than six years after the date of the
contract in February 2008. So he thought it was fair for G not to consider her claim.
In respect of Ms Bs claim for breach of contract our Investigator said that there was no DCS
chain between G, Ms B and SC, so G wasnt liable for any breach of contract on the part of 
SC.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Link was the correct respondent. 
This is because it concerns a complaint about a s75 claim, and that complaint dates to when 
the claim was made rather than the allegations made as part of that claim.  Otherwise I 
agreed with the Investigator that any claim for misrepresentation under s75 CCA was out of 
time under the LA. And that Link wasnt liable for any breach of contract on the part of SC as 
there was no DCS chain between Ms B, Link and SC.
Neither party responded to my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings (in italics below)
liability of Link
Link disputes that it is liable to answer the s75 claim or the complaint about it. It says that no
claim was made to it, and that it has said that any complaint about its pre-assignment activity
should be referred back to G. It also says the complaint is out of time due to a charging order
being obtained against the account in September 2010 which it says is now paid up. It
doesnt dispute that it had taken over the management and administration of the account,
and that it received the payments.
I think Link was made aware of the complaint in 2017, however it contended that G was
responsible for it. In turn G said that because of the terms of the assigning of the loan Link
was responsible. It was for that reason that the complaint was pursued against G. And I
dont think it would be fair on Ms B to suggest that her complaint is out of time when Link had
denied responsibility for it, wrongly in my view. But the event giving rise to the complaint is
the response to a s75 claim, not the sale of the loan.
So I still think that Link is the correct respondent.
misrepresentation
In order for Link to be liable under s75 CCA, there has to be a DCS chain, where the debtor
(Ms B) paid the supplier of the service through the creditor (Link). Here the service was
provided by SC, and the alleged misrepresentation was made by PV. The payment was
made to a separate trust company. Whilst it was alleged that this broke the chain, I dont
think the position is as straightforward as has been suggested. However, as I set out below,
as any claim for misrepresentation would be out of time, I dont need to make a finding
concerning the DCS chain so far as the relationship between PV and the trustee company is
concerned.
A claim for misrepresentation against PV would ordinarily be made under Section
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors
[2012] that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action founded in tort for the purposes
of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the date on which the cause of
action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Ms B made a like claim against G, for which as Ive said, Link is responsible, under s75 CCA
and the limitation period for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim.
This means that she had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued to
make a claim.The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Ms B entered into the
purchase and/or credit agreements. I say this because she entered into the purchase
agreement based on the alleged misrepresentations of PV  which she relied on. It was
when she entered into the credit agreement that she suffered a loss.
Ms B entered into the purchase agreement with PV in February 2008. She didnt assert any
claim until November 2016. So as Link would have a defence to any such claim under the
LA, I think it fair that it didnt consider this complaint.
As regards SC, I think that PV was acting as its agent for the purposes of selling the holiday
product. A contract was then created between Ms B and SC, as she then paid some
maintenance charges to it. So I think that PV acted for Ms B in procuring the services but it
didnt supply them.
It's possible that Link would have to answer to a claim for breach of contract if it could be
shown that PV and SC were associated companies. But here although PV acted in
marketing and procuring the holiday product, I havent seen any evidence that PV and SC
were associated companies under the CCA (s184 and 187), which they would need to be to
found a claim under s75.
A has mentioned a court case in which a director of SC was found guilty of fraud. 
I understand that this related to the sale of fractional ownerships of boats in Turkey. Ms Bs
case didnt involve fractional ownership nor was the boat in question moored in Turkey. As
Ive not seen the right kind of link between the two companies, I dont think that Link can be
held responsible for breach of contract on the part of SC.
So overall I think that any claim under s75 CCA for misrepresentation would be found to be
out of time under the LA (and Ive noted that A didnt challenge the investigators conclusion
in this respect). And I dont think that in the circumstances of this case, Link could be held
liable for any breach of contract by SC.
As neither party has responded to my provisional findings, I remain persuaded by those 
findings which are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman