DRN-3253430
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained about the way their travel insurer, Union Reiseversicherung 
AG (URV), dealt with a claim they made on their policy. 
All references to URV include its agents. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs F were away on holiday in late 2018 when Mr F injured his elbow and had to go 
into hospital. He had some tests and received treatment but didnt have to stay overnight.
Mr F paid around $200 (US Dollars) to the hospital at the time of his treatment which he later 
claimed back from URV. Not long after his hospital visit, Mr F was informed by the hospital 
that there was a further payment outstanding (for around $1000) which he passed on to 
URV. 
URV told Mr F that it had instructed another company to review the new invoice and also 
that it had asked the hospital for a specific form which included a breakdown of the treatment 
he had received and the related cost. 
The hospital appointed a separate debt collection company who have been the ones 
contacting Mr F regarding the outstanding invoice over the past years.
In June 2021 URV paid around $180 towards the hospital bill and said this was based on 
USA government published rates plus a 50% uplift. It said it believed the hospital bill was 
inflated. 
Mr and Mrs F were unhappy that URV hadnt settled the bill in full, especially after such a 
long time, and complained. URV responded to say that the hospital didnt provide a 
breakdown as requested until May 2021 and that, in any event, it had paid what it 
considered to be reasonable costs. It also told Mr and Mrs F that if any debt was deemed to 
be due, it would pay it and asked them to sign a form asking the debt collectors to get in 
touch with URV directly about this. It also offered Mr and Mrs F £200 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience having to deal with the debt collectors was causing them and for 
having to forward communication on to it.
Mr and Mrs F accepted the £200 but refused to sign the form.  They said they didnt agree 
with URVs reasons for not paying the bill in full. 
Mr and Mrs F then complained to us saying they wanted URV to pay the bill in full. They also 
said they were worried in case they wanted to retire to the location of the hospital and 
presumably did not wish to have outstanding debts in that jurisdiction.
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said he 
hadnt seen any evidence that URV had tried to negotiate with the hospital or that the bill 
was inflated. He said as the amount due was so low and due for such a long time, he 
thought URV should settle it in full and pay Mr and Mrs F £350 in total for the distress and 
inconvenience they suffered. 
URV didnt agree. It said it was entitled to query the bill and provided what it considered to 
be evidence that the hospital had been overcharging. 
Our investigator reviewed the complaint again but didnt change his view. He said even if 
there was evidence that the bill was inflated, it was still unreasonable for URV to refuse to 
settle the bill given the low amount involved. He reiterated that he had seen no evidence of 
any negotiation between URV and the hospital. 
URV disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
Before I issued my decision, I went back to URV and asked for its comments on the 
following:
I said even with the additional evidence it had provided I still didnt think there was 
sufficient evidence to show overcharging. I added that as Mr F isnt a US citizen he is not 
entitled to the rates URV had referred to. I also said that I hadnt been shown anything to 
convince me that the rates applied in this case established a valid benchmark for the fair 
market value of service provided outside the US medical systems to which they related. 
URV had only provided data in relation to part of the care Mr F received. I therefore 
hadnt seen anything to persuade me that the entire invoice was inflated. 
Even if I were persuaded that there was enough evidence of overcharging, I was not 
satisfied URV has acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which it had taken over the 
handling of Mr Fs claim. I said this was because of the lack of proactivity from URV as 
well as various delays and lack of any activity in URVs file over large periods of time. 
I hadnt seen any attempt by URV to negotiate. And given the low amounts involved I 
thought it was fair and reasonable for URV to settle the claim in full and pay £350 
compensation to Mr and Mrs F.
URV asked for two extensions in order to provide its response which I agreed to. After the 
second extension I said I would not grant any further extensions. URV said it could not agree 
that it had provided no evidence to show it had attempted to negotiate with the healthcare 
providers. It said it would ask its solicitors to provide an update. I agreed but said if this was 
not received by 6 July, I would proceed based on the evidence I had.
URVs solicitors wrote to us on 5 July (letter received on 6 July) but their letter related to 
separate complaint of Mr and Mrs Fs, so I was not able to take it into consideration in this 
decision. Our investigator informed URV of this on 7 July and said I would now proceed with 
my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold it. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs F made a separate complaint regarding a claim for an injury 
that Mrs F suffered at a different time. That complaint has already been looked at by another ombudsman and so in this decision I am only looking at the complaint relating to Mr Fs 2018 
injury.
Relevant rules and regulations
As a matter of general legal principle, URV is bound to indemnify Mr and Mrs F against
losses covered by the policy as and when the amount of their loss (here the amount of 
Mr and Mrs Fs liability to the hospital) has been ascertained. That may be by
agreement, by court judgment or by arbitration. So URV has a commercial interest in being
able to take over the defence and settlement of such claims in Mr and Mrs Fs name.
URVs policy terms say it can:
take over and deal with, in your name, the defence/settlement of any claim made
under the policy.
In effect, this means URV has the right to take over the conduct of a claim  defending or
settling it  in the name of Mr and Mrs F. But that isnt an unqualified right.
Legally, in situations where URVs interests conflict with Mr and Mrs Fs, URV has a
responsibility to act in good faith when it takes over the defence/settlement of a claim 
having regard to Mr and Mrs Fs interests as well as its own commercial interests. URV isnt
entitled to act arbitrarily in the way it goes about declining to pay the full amount of the
invoice and contesting the outstanding amount. In deciding whether  and how  to settle or
defend claims against Mr and Mrs F, URV is required to base its decision on the
circumstances of Mr and Mrs Fs individual case rather than on broader concerns about
overcharging within the US healthcare industry.
The applicable regulations lead to a similar conclusion. The Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for Businesses, which URV must follow, 
including:
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them
fairly.
Principle 8  A firm must manage conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and its
customers and between a customer and another client.
The relevant regulations also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
handle complaints promptly and fairly;
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
      information on its progress;
not unreasonably reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy); and
settle complaints promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide, published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles for Businesses (the Principles) and the detailed rules
mean for providers and distributors of financial services. The RPPD explains that firms
should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the customer throughout the life
cycle of the service being provided.
I also find it appropriate to take into account what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance  and their
agents - to engage diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over medical
bills by actively seeking a compromise or adjudication of their bills. That includes actively
engaging in negotiation.Ill now explain what this means for Mr and Mrs Fs complaint.
The amount paid
The policy says if there is a need for emergency medical attention URV will pay up to 
£10,000,000 following necessary emergency expenses for: 
customary and reasonable fees or charges for necessary and emergency treatment, to be 
paid outside your home country for medical, surgical, hospital, nursing home or nursing 
services.
URV said it believes there are overcharging issues in the USA. It also said that the particular 
hospital accepted discounts of around 75% across its entire patient population in 2018. It 
added that the documents it provided after our investigators first view show that the 
Medicare rate (a rate based on US Congress guidelines) for the tests Mr F had, would 
have cost the hospital, on average, around $76. URV paid $93.17 towards that cost for 
which the hospital was claiming around $700. It says another document it provided shows 
that in 2018 this particular hospital charged an average of $598 for these types of tests but 
received an average payment of $56.  
The Congress guidelines are issued annually by the USA government and I understand that
they apply to certain USA residents, who qualify for Medicare. URV says it
uses Congress rates as a benchmark when deciding whether the amounts charged are
reasonable. It says it then pays a certain percentage above this.
Mr F is not a USA resident and, therefore, not entitled to Medicare. Furthermore, I havent 
been shown anything to convince me that the Congress rates applied in this case establish a 
valid benchmark for the fair market value of services provided outside the US 
Medicare/Medicaid systems to which they relate. So, Im not persuaded that for this reason 
alone the invoice is unreasonably excessive or out of line with what might reasonably be 
charged for non-American residents who dont have Medicare. 
I also note that URV has not provided any data in relation to the care Mr F received for which 
the hospital charged around $600. URV said it has no access to comparative data in relation 
to that part of the invoice. So, I havent seen anything to persuade me that that part of the 
invoice was also inflated, as URV argues. Its, therefore, unclear to me how URV calculated 
its payment in respect to that element of the invoice. It follows that based on what Ive seen, 
I dont think that offer was fair and reasonable.
Im also conscious of the fact that Mr and Mrs Fs policy isnt a medical insurance policy like 
the type of policies that can be taken out in the USA to cover medical care and treatment for 
people who reside there; its a travel insurance policy. 
URV said the particular hospital accepted large discounts in 2018.In this case, the issue isnt 
what losses the average hospital makes when it treats a patient on Medicare, or how much 
URV considers to be an appropriate profit margin, but how much a facility of the quality and 
location where Mr F received treatment could be expected to charge privately 
funded/insured patients for his treatment. Im not persuaded the information URV provided 
sheds any light on that issue. So, whilst Ive taken it into account, Ive placed less weight on 
it.
Nevertheless, even if I were persuaded that there is evidence of overcharging and that the 
various sources advanced by URV support its decision to not pay the outstanding amount, Im not satisfied URV has acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which its taken over the 
handling of Mr Fs claim. Ill explain further below.
URVs handling of the claim 
As I mentioned above, this claim dates back to 2018. URV said it asked the hospital for a 
breakdown of the costs at the time but didnt receive it until May 2021. 
The hospital provided its invoice not long after Mr F had his treatment. Shortly thereafter, 
URV wrote to the hospital asking for a particular form which itemised the treatment provided. 
I have seen correspondence from the hospital and its debt collectors to Mr and Mrs F in 
2019 saying they hadnt received anything from URV. Its not clear why the hospital didnt 
appear to have received URVs letter. I have also seen correspondence between Mr F and 
URV in 2020 and 2021 where URV said it was still waiting for the breakdown from the 
hospital. From what Ive seen the breakdown was provided by the hospital in April 2021 and 
URV made a payment of $178.23 in June 2021.
I appreciate URV says it didnt receive the breakdown until 2021 but at the same time I cant 
see that it was actively chasing the hospital to get it. As far as I can see, it would mainly 
chase the hospital after Mr F would get in touch with it first (after receiving correspondence 
from the debt collectors). Also, from what Ive seen, there were large gaps in activity in 
URVs file in relation to this claim; more specifically between the middle of 2019 and January 
2020 and between February 2020 and February 2021. I appreciate that this was around the 
time of the Covid-19 pandemic, nevertheless, the claim itself predates the pandemic and 
also a gap of a year is, in my view, quite long even by pandemic standards. Bearing in mind 
that it was Mr F who was being directly chased for the balance I think URV could have done 
more to chase the breakdown, particularly as it was the one who considered having a 
breakdown in this case to be so important. 
But even if URV had done more to chase the breakdown I still cant see that it tried to enter 
into any meaningful negotiations with the hospital or the debt collectors. From what I have 
seen it made its offer and didnt try to negotiate when it was clear this wouldnt be 
acceptable. 
I find the fact that URV made no attempt to negotiate with the hospital or its agent and no
other attempt to have the amount of debt ascertained by any form of dispute resolution
process, contrary to both the regulatory guidance and good industry practice.
URV needs to act fairly in each individual case. It also has a duty to fairly manage any
conflicts between its own interests and those of Mr and Mrs F. I dont think it has had due
regard to Mr and Mrs Fs interests here. And I think it has unreasonably put its own
commercial interests above theirs without considering their specific circumstances. I dont
think URV has considered the impact of its actions on Mr and Mrs F, as it is required to do.
I also think the fact that Mr and Mrs F have had to forward correspondence from and liaise 
with debt collectors since 2018, to have caused them a certain amount of distress and 
inconvenience. I can also understand why they would be concerned about travelling to or 
retiring in the US whilst part of this bill is still outstanding. And even though URV has 
reassured them that they would not be liable for any debt, I think receiving debt collection 
letters can in itself be quite stressful. I therefore agree with our investigator that URV should 
pay Mr and Mrs F £350 in total for the distress and inconvenience they suffered as a result 
of its handling of the claim. Putting things right
We are bound by a set of rules known as the DISP rules which can be found in the FCA 
handbook. 
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant the
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which in this case is
URV.
DISP 3.7.11R also provides that a direction may require the respondent, here URV, to take
such steps in relation to the complaint as the ombudsman considers just and appropriate
whether or not a court could order those steps to be taken.
URV has said that the bill is clearly inflated. Even if I were to accept that this is the case and 
that the evidence URV provided to us proves this, bearing in mind that the amount due is 
relatively low I think its fair and reasonable in these particular circumstances that URV 
settles the bill in full. I say this because even if URV now enters into negotiations with the 
hospital, it will still take some time for these to be completed. And, even if the negotiations 
are successful, any costs URV ends up saving it may have to pay to Mr and Mrs F for the 
further amount of time it is taking to resolve this claim and for the added distress and 
inconvenience they may suffer in the meantime.
 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Im directing Union 
Reiseversicherung AG to pay Mr and Mrs F £350 for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused them and to settle the outstanding bill for Mr Fs 2018 hospital treatment 
mentioned above in full.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2022.
 
Anastasia Serdari
Ombudsman