DRN-3189520
Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2008 with further lending to an existing mortgage. Mrs F says Santander UK Plc mis-sold her 
PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mrs Fs 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mrs Fs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Fs. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mrs Fs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Santander made it clear that Mrs F didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out. I say this because this was a sale by phone and although Santander no 
longer has a recording of the phone call, it has provided a call script which it says 
represents what was discussed at the time. Looking at this I can see the representative 
was prompted to make it clear that the policy was optional and separate to the mortgage.
Im mindful too that Mrs Fs main mortgage had been in place for around 2 years before 
she took out PPI  so I dont think its likely she would have been under the impression 
she had to have PPI at this stage.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something very different happened in Mrs Fs case, I think she chose to take out PPI and 
likely did so without undue pressure.
Mrs F says she was advised to take out PPI. Santander says it didnt recommend the 
PPI to Mrs F. Looking at what happened, Im not persuaded Santander advised Mrs F. I 
say this because Santander has provided a document sent to Mrs F after the phone call, 
which says Mrs F chose the non-advised level of service for PPI and Ive not seen 
anything else to indicate advice and a recommendation was made. 
This means Santander didnt have to check that the PPI was right or suitable for Mrs F. 
But it did have to give her enough clear and timely information so she could decide for 
herself if it was right for her.
Because the call script isnt a detailed record of the phone call, I accept its possible the 
information Santander gave Mrs F about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mrs F  for example she was eligible for the 
cover and there was nothing about her employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for her to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
Although Mrs F says she had a medical condition around 18 years prior to taking out the 
policy, I dont think better information about the existing medical condition exclusion 
wouldve caused her to change her mind about taking it out. I say this because Mrs F 
hasnt said or implied her condition caused her to take regular or significant periods of 
time off work. And importantly the policy only excluded existing conditions for the first 12 
months of cover  after this Mrs F could have claimed for her condition. So given the PPI 
was protecting a long-term debt, I think Mrs F would have still decided the cover was 
useful to her.
Overall, I consider that Mrs F would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close 
to what its likely she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given her circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that she would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mrs Fs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; 
and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Fs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Fs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Fs particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. This means Santander doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman