DRN-3150328
The complaint
Mr S complains because Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) hasnt paid a claim under his 
travel insurance policy. 
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
What happened
Mr S held a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by URV. The policy covered travel 
during the period 27 February 2020 to 7 April 2020. 
Mr S was abroad in a country which Ill call I, when his return flight on 7 April 2020 was 
cancelled due to the circumstances surrounding Covid-19. Mr S booked and paid for a 
repatriation flight, returning to the UK on 12 April 2020. 
Mr S made a claim for his additional travel costs in returning to the UK under his policy with 
URV. URV initially addressed Mr Ss claim as one for missed departure and said the 
circumstances he found himself in werent covered under his policy. When Mr S complained, 
URV said there was no section of Mr Ss policy which would provide cover for his situation. 
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to the attention of our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and said he didnt think URV had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably by declining Mr Ss claim. Mr S didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when making my final decision. 
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy in their entirety. And, I agree with our 
investigator that there is no cover under any section of the policy for the circumstances Mr S 
found himself in. Mr Ss policy doesnt provide cover for a scenario where a trip is extended 
beyond the original intended return date (other than in the event of certain medical 
emergencies).
I understand Mr S initially attempted to take an earlier flight on 22 March 2020, and that his 
policy was still in force when his repatriation flight on 12 April 2020 was booked. But Mr S 
didnt return to the UK early (despite his attempts to do so). Mr Ss claim is for the cost of a 
flight taken after his original intended return date and his policy simply doesnt provide cover 
for an enforced stay abroad due to a flight cancellation, or due to a pandemic. 
Ive taken into account everything Mr S has said about the Foreign, Commonwealth and 
Development Offices advice for British travellers to return to the UK, the lockdown in I and 
his and his wifes medical conditions. I understand Mr S effectively had no choice but to 
remain abroad, and that he returned to the UK at the earliest possible opportunity. However, 
no travel insurance policy provides cover for every scenario, and these points dont change 
my decision that Mr Ss claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy. 
It was up to Mr S to ensure that he had a level of travel insurance cover in place which met 
his needs. At the time Mr S purchased his policy, any gap in cover arising from a claim 
relating to a pandemic isnt something which Id expect at insurer to have highlighted within 
its policy documentation. 
Our investigator also concluded that Mr S hadnt experienced a financial loss which he could 
claim for under his insurance policy because of the various refunds hed received for other 
flights which were cancelled and/or not taken. Mr S disagreed with this conclusion. I dont 
intend to address this issue any further because I dont think it makes any difference to the 
outcome of Mr Ss complaint. For the reasons Ive explained above, Mr Ss claim isnt 
covered under his policy regardless.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S and I have sympathy for the situation he found himself in. 
However, his claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of his policy with URV and I 
dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could fairly ask URV to accept his 
claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman