DRN-3780514
The complaint
Mr G complains that Europ Assistance S.A (EA) has turned down a claim he made on a 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
In March 2022, Mr G booked flights abroad via an online travel agent and he took out a 
cancellation insurance policy alongside the booking. The policy was underwritten by EA and 
Mr G paid £56.96 for the insurance.
However, a short while later, he noticed that the wrong return date had been booked and 
hed actually intended to stay abroad for a further month for a family celebration. So Mr G 
asked the travel agent to amend his flight booking. The travel agent confirmed it could do so, 
but that Mr G would need to pay a booking amendment fee of £170. Mr G wasnt prepared to 
pay the booking fee and so on 9 March 2022, he asked the travel agent to cancel the trip. He 
went on to make a cancellation claim on the insurance policy.
EA turned down Mr Gs claim. It said that the circumstances of the claim werent covered by 
the terms of the contract.
Mr G was unhappy with EAs decision, and he asked us to look into his complaint. He also 
provided medical evidence from his GP which showed that in April and May 2022, hed been 
referred to cardiology for investigation after suffering chest pains. The GP stated that Mr G 
wouldnt have been able to travel around this time. So Mr G considered that EA should treat 
the cancellation as being due to illness.
EA reviewed the GPs evidence and maintained its decision to turn down the claim. It said 
that Mr G had already cancelled the holiday before suffering from chest pain. And so it 
concluded that the trip hadnt been cancelled for medical reasons.
Our investigators didnt think that Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. They both felt the 
evidence pointed to the cancellation being down to the booking error, rather than for medical 
reasons. They considered itd been fair for EA to conclude that this situation wasnt covered 
by the policy terms and conditions.
Mr G disagreed and so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, I think it was fair for EA to turn down his 
claim and Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr G that whilst Ive summarised the background to his complaint 
and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent us. Within 
this decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do our rules 
require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues.
I think its also important that I explain EAs role. Mr G booked his travel arrangements 
through an online travel agent. That travel agent is entirely separate to EA and EA isnt 
responsible for any of its actions, nor for the travel agents booking terms, applicable airfares 
or charges. EA is the insurer of the policy which the travel agent sold him alongside the 
flights. EA charged Mr G £56.96 for the cancellation insurance policy and its role was limited 
to assessing whether Mr Gs claim was covered or not. It was not responsible for deciding to 
apply a flight amendment fee. So the key issue for me to decide here is whether EA handled 
Mr Gs claim fairly.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr Gs policy and the available evidence, to decide whether EA treated him 
fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of Mr Gs 
contract with EA. Page 13 of the policy sets out the specific insured events EA covers if a 
policyholder has to cancel their trip. These are:
1. Serious Illness, Serious Injury or death of:
- An Insured.
- Any other Person Insured travelling under the same Trip booking
2. Any other cause unintended by and beyond the control of any Person Insured which 
is not otherwise excluded and for which You can provide Us with suitable evidence 
substantiating the event.
Mr G has provided medical evidence which shows that he was referred to cardiology for 
chest pains and required medical tests. So he feels that EA should consider his claim as 
arising due to illness  which is covered in certain, defined situations. EA disagrees. Its view 
is that the reason for the cancellation of Mr Gs trip was because of the booking error. Ive 
next considered then whether this was a fair conclusion for EA to draw.
It's clear, from the evidence Mr G has provided, that he noticed the flight booking error very 
promptly and sought to change his return date. Given the importance of the trip to him, I can 
entirely understand why he wanted to ensure the flight date was amended. Mr Gs 
communications with the travel agent show that he didnt feel he should be liable for paying 
the flight amendment fee. And he told the travel agent that hed cancel the trip if the flight 
date couldnt be changed without the payment of the amendment charge. As the travel agent 
said it was unable to help Mr G unless he paid the additional £170, on 9 March 2022, Mr G 
asked to cancel the trip.
A letter from Mr Gs GP, dated 1 September 2022, says:
(Mr G) has had several consultations regarding chest pain in April and May 2022 regarding 
symptoms of chest pain and so was subsequently referred to our Cardiology colleagues for 
further clinical assessment and investigation. Understandably, he would have been unable to 
travel around this time. (My emphasis added.)
In my view then, the GPs evidence suggests that Mr G first sought treatment for chest pain 
in April 2022  at least three weeks after the trip had already been cancelled. I appreciate Mr 
G is likely to have been unfit for travel around the time he was due to depart. But I dont find it was unreasonable or unfair for EA to rely upon the GPs evidence to conclude that the trip 
hadnt been cancelled due to medical reasons.
Ive thought next about whether Mr Gs claim is covered by the second limb of the policy 
cancellation events.  I appreciate that the error was entirely unintended by Mr G. But key 
here is whether cancellation due to a booking error can reasonably be treated as a cause 
beyond Mr Gs control. And I dont think it was. Thats because Mr G didnt have to cancel 
his booking and lose the costs of his trip. It was open to him to pay the flight amendment fee 
and travel as hed intended. This cost would have been substantially lower than the 
cancellation costs Mr G actually incurred. 
Equally, while I appreciate why Mr G wanted to return to the UK a month after his booked 
return date, at the point of cancellation, he could have still continued with his booked plans 
and returned on the original booking date. The booking error didnt prevent Mr G from 
travelling abroad. Id add that its also a general principle of insurance that its for a 
policyholder to mitigate their losses if possible. While I can understand why Mr G might not 
have wanted to pay out more money, by cancelling the trip, I dont think Mr G mitigated his 
losses.
This means then that I dont think it was unreasonable for EA to conclude that Mr Gs claim 
wasnt covered by the second limb of the cancellation cover either. 
Mr G has referred to the Cancellation Right section of the policy, which Ive set out below. 
This says:
The Policyholder is entitled to withdraw from the Policy if the period of cover is more than a 
month and if the Policy has been taken out remotely, with immediate effect from the 
notification of withdrawal.
In this case, You can withdraw within a period of 14 days from the start date of the Policy by 
contacting (the seller)
We will refund full amounts paid within a maximum of thirty (30) calendar days from the 
receipt of Your request provided that no claim for compensation has been made or claim 
report requested or is in the process of being reported, and that no incident likely to give rise 
to such claim occurred.
This particular section of the policy sets out how a policyholder may cancel their insurance 
contract with EA, rather than providing additional insurance cover. It says that if a 
policyholder withdraws from the contract (cancels the insurance policy) within 14 days from 
the start date, they may be entitled to a full refund. This type of term is commonly known as 
the cooling-off period.  The reference to a refund means a refund of the premium a 
policyholder has paid specifically for the insurance policy  i.e. the money which has been 
paid to EA itself. it doesnt mean that EA will refund the full costs of a policyholders trip. 
Overall, I sympathise with Mr Gs position, as I appreciate hes been left out of pocket. But I 
dont find that EA acted unfairly or unreasonably when it turned down Mr Gs claim. So Im 
not telling it to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman