DRN-3241048
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) didnt agree to refund the premium she 
paid for a medical upgrade on her travel insurance policy. 
All reference to AXA includes its agents.
What happened
Mrs S has a travel insurance policy alongside her bank current account. She pays a monthly 
fee and AXA is the underwriter of that policy.  
Mrs S had booked a cruise holiday for an intended departure in June/July 2020, so she 
contacted AXA on 12 March 2020 to verify the cover she had. She took out an upgrade on 
the policy due to pre-existing medical conditions and paid an additional premium of £81.58. 
Cover started on 12 March 2020 expired on 11 March 2021.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the uncertainty of future travel, Mrs S decided not to 
make the balance payment outstanding on the holiday. The cruise was then cancelled, and 
she also lost her deposit payment of £130 that she had already paid. 
On 1 March 2021, Mrs S contacted AXA as her travel policy was due for renewal. She 
informed AXA she didnt want to renew the medical upgrade on her policy. In this call, AXA 
made her aware that some customers had received a refund for unused travel upgrades but 
as Mrs S hadnt contacted it, she wouldnt be entitled for a refund. 
Unhappy with AXA, Mrs S brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
it and explained since AXA had made an offer to resolve the complaint. She said AXA 
offered to issue a pro-rata refund for the medical upgrade from the date of cancellation as 
long as Mrs S had made no claims on her travel policy. The refund was calculated from 28 
February 2021 as cover was still active until this point, and the amount of the refund was 
£2.46. 
Our investigator thought the offer fair and reasonable in the circumstances and that AXA 
hadnt treated Mrs S unfairly or differently to other customers in similar situations.
Mrs S disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mrs S held have a cooling off period of up to 14 
days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called 
the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mrs S didnt cancel her travel insurance upgrade within 14 days. And, under industry rules, 
even if she had cancelled the upgrade within 14 days, she wouldnt be entitled to a full 
refund of the premium paid. This is because AXA covered the risk of her cancelling the 
upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the upgrade during that time. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mrs Ss insurance policy with AXA outline their cancellation 
rights for the upgrade under the contract. These say:
3. Cancellation
You have the right to cancel Your insurance at any time. If You, or (bank)
close Your account, or (bank) terminates the cover provided through the
account, cover will stop immediately unless You are moving from one qualifying
account to another. The cancellation details within Your personal banking terms and
conditions apply. Depending on the circumstances a refund may apply. If You have 
purchased an Upgrade and within 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade schedule, You
find that it does not meet Your requirements You may cancel Your Upgrade by
returning the Upgrade schedule to Us. We will refund any premium You have paid for
Upgrades or to obtain cover for Medical Conditions in full provided You have not
travelled.
For cancellations occurring after 14 days of receipt of the Upgrade schedule no
refund of premium will be made...
Mrs S took out the medical upgrade on 12 March 2020 and she contacted AXA on 1 March 
2021 about cancelling the upgrade. This was more than 14 days after she bought the 
upgrade which means I dont think Mrs S is entitled to any refund of premiums under the 
terms and conditions of the contract with AXA.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstancesIve also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mrs Ss planned trip, and therefore the need for the upgrade to the insurance 
policy, changed due to circumstances outside of her control. So, Ive thought about whether 
it would be fair and reasonable to ask AXA to do anything further, taking into account the 
exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
I understand Mrs Ss trip was cancelled due to Covid-19 but this didnt make it impossible for 
Mrs S contract with AXA to be performed. Cover under the upgrade began on its start date, 
12 March 2020.
Mrs S wasnt just insured for her dates of travel. The price set by AXA also covered Mrs S 
for cancellation cover from the upgrade start date. So, the premium Mrs S paid covered the 
risk of her having to cancel her holiday due to any of a number of listed events insured under 
her travel policy and including the medical upgrade for pre-existing conditions.
AXA covered the risk of Mrs S making a successful claim for any pre-booked holidays from 
12 March 2020 to 28 February 2021 regardless of whether any holidays were booked or 
whether, indeed, Mrs S was able to travel from March 2020.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mrs Ss cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for AXA to retain any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered. However, after 28 February 2021, AXA didnt bear 
any risk under Mrs Ss medical upgrade for her needing to cancel a planned trip due to a 
pre-existing medical condition. And, after the medical upgrade was cancelled on 28 February 
2021, AXA no longer provided cancellation cover due to medical reasons for any other 
holidays booked or any other travel. 
Mrs S paid a premium of £81.58 for the medical upgrade which covered the period from 12 
March 2020 to 11 March 2021 (365 days). The refund of £2.46 offered by AXA has been 
calculated based on Mrs Ss unused period of standard medical upgrade cover. The policy 
was cancelled on 28 February 2021 which meant there were 11 days left from then to 11 
March 2021 of unused cover on her policy. Im satisfied that the pro-rata refund of £2.46 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive considered Mrs Ss comments that due to her personal circumstances in 2020, her mind 
wasnt on contacting AXA to cancel her medical upgrade but on caring for her elderly and 
vulnerable mother. I have every empathy with Mrs Ss situation, and I understand this was a 
difficult time for her. But, taking everything into account, Im not persuaded that AXA has 
done anything wrong. 
Overall, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to ask AXA to step outside of industry 
guidelines or the terms and conditions of the policy. I think the offer of £2.46 is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ss complaint against AXA Insurance UK Plc, and 
I think the offer of £2.46 is fair and reasonable Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman