DRN-3858193
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard, unfairly reduced the 
limit on his credit card. He wants it re-instated to the previous level.
What happened
Mr R holds a credit card with Barclaycard which previously had a credit limit of £6,700. In 
April 2021, Barclaycard wrote to Mr R to explain that following a review, they were going to 
be reducing his credit limit to £250 in around six weeks time. They explained that if Mr R 
was unhappy with this, they could complete a further review of his credit limit, if he completed 
an account review form and returned it along with up-to-date confirmation of his income.
Mr R responded within a number of days, saying that while he rarely used the card, he 
wanted to keep the higher limit for the freedom and security it gave him, which was important 
for him due to his disability. So he provided the account review form, along with a copy of his 
state pension income. He also provided payslips for his civil service pension, with a covering 
letter explaining that the payslips would be dated April and May of the previous year, as he 
only receives them when theres been a change in his pension rate. 
Having received Mr Rs documents, Barclaycard responded, but said that they couldnt be 
used, as they were out of date. Mr R argued that hed already explained why this was, but he 
had since however, received a more recent payslip for April 2021, so he sent Barclaycard a 
copy of this, along with the previously dated May 2020 payslip for their consideration. Shortly 
after, he also sent in the May 2021 payslip having since received that, but it seems no 
further action was taken. 
A number of months passed and in September 2021, Barclaycard wrote to Mr R to say that 
while they had received the documents from him, theyd been unable to use them  
however, they didnt explain why this was, and the department he called to check were also 
unclear about why. They did however suggest that Mr R send in the last three months bank 
statements, which he did, but Barclaycard still did not reinstate his credit limit, so he 
complained.
Barclaycard maintained that the information Mr R had sent in on the first two occasions was 
not recent enough. And they said that when Mr R sent in the May 2021 payslip, the 
timescales in which to provide this evidence had already lapsed. They also said that Mr R 
should not have been advised to resend the documents along with bank statements in 
September as this was incorrect advice. They did say however, that Mr R could reapply for a 
credit limit increase six months after his limit was reduced. Unhappy with this, Mr R referred 
his case to our service. 
An investigator considered Mr Rs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He said 
Barclaycard had given Mr R the option to retain the limit, had acceptable documentation 
been provided. And as Mr R had not provided this, he didnt think it was unreasonable for 
them to reduce Mr Rs credit limit as a result. 
But Mr R remained unhappy, so the case was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision where I said in summary, that I was satisfied Barclaycard 
were within their rights to alter Mr Rs credit limit, and that they gave him sufficient notice of 
their intention to do so. They also gave Mr R the opportunity to provide further information if 
he wanted them to reconsider their decision.
But I thought that Barclaycard couldve done more to support Mr R, given what hed told us 
and Barclaycard about his personal circumstances. And I thought it likely that Barclaycard 
couldve made an informed decision about Mr Rs ongoing credit limit based on the 
information he did provide, given what hes said about his pension income being guaranteed 
for life. He also seemed to have provided a valid reason for why he was initially unable to 
provide the evidence that Barclaycard were requesting.
I also thought Barclaycards decision not to act on the information Mr R provided wouldve 
been distressing for him, and said that therefore, they should compensate Mr R £200 for the 
distress this wouldve caused. And I said that as six months had now passed and Mr R was 
able to re-apply for a credit limit increase, Barclaycard should take into account his personal 
circumstances when considering any limit increase request. And, consider whether it might 
be possible to make an informed decision on any application Mr R makes, based on what 
might be less evidence than it would usually obtain  given Mr Rs circumstances. As well as 
considering what information Mr R was likely to be able to provide, I thought they should also 
consider the timescales within which he would be likely to be able to respond to information 
requests. 
Barclaycard accepted the findings in full. Mr R also accepted in full, but said he would like 
Barclaycard to provide a definitive list of what is required in order for him to have his credit 
limit increased, as well as provide a designated contact within their organisation to speak 
with.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything again, and having taken into account the responses from both 
parties to my provisional decision, Ive reached the same outcome and for the same 
reasons.
 
Mr Rs set out his position at length and Id like to thank him for taking the time to do so. But 
my findings will concentrate on those matters I consider central to the outcome of this 
complaint. So, while I have considered everything, I may not explicitly address each and 
every point Mr R has made. I trust this wont be taken as a discourtesy, but reflects the 
informal nature of this service.
When Barclaycard wrote to Mr R in April 2021, they explained they would be reducing his 
credit limit to ensure it remains manageable. It seems this was part of a wholesale review on 
credit limits, and it gave Mr R the option to provide up-to-date information if he wanted 
Barclaycard to carry out a further review of the new limit on offer. 
Mr R has argued that the income he receives, which is a combination of both a state, and 
civil service pension, is guaranteed for life. And therefore, he doesnt think that the reason 
Barclaycard is reducing his credit limit is in fact related to ensuring payments were 
manageable at all. But, account reviews of this nature by banks are not uncommon. And its unlikely to be 
possible to look into the minutiae of individual account details when deciding to carry out this 
type of action on a more wholesale level. And the terms of Mr Rs credit card account, do 
allow Barclaycard to review credit limits and alter them  section 6 - credit limit sets out that 
they will inform customers, if and when this happens. 
So, Im satisfied Barclaycard were within their rights to alter Mr Rs credit limit, and gave him 
sufficient notice of their intention to do so. They also gave Mr R the opportunity to provide 
further information if he wanted them to reconsider this decision. So, I dont think 
Barclaycards initial actions were unreasonable in this regard. 
Following Barclaycards request, it seems there were a number of items sent in by Mr R, but 
Barclaycard argued that they did not meet their requirements, based on both when they 
were sent in, and when they were dated. 
Its not my place to tell Barclaycard what credit limits they should apply and to who  this is 
for Barclaycard to decide on a case by case basis. And Barclaycard are also entitled to set 
parameters around what evidence it requires when reviewing such matters. Its not 
uncommon for businesses, such as Barclaycard to expect  for instance, when looking at 
obtaining current proof of income  that the documents sent in are up-to-date. 
But I do think that Barclaycard couldve done more to support Mr R, given what hes told us, 
and Barclaycard, about his personal circumstances. And I think its likely that Barclaycard 
couldve made an informed decision about Mr Rs ongoing credit limit based on the 
information he did provide, given what hes said about his pension income being guaranteed 
for life. He also seems to have provided a valid reason for why he was initially unable to 
provide the evidence that Barclaycard were requesting.
So, in summary, I think Barclaycards decision not to act on the information Mr R provided 
wouldve been distressing for Mr R, particularly, when taking into account what hes told 
Barclaycard, and this service, about his personal circumstances. And, I think Barclaycard 
should compensate Mr R for the distress this wouldve caused. I think a figure of £200 would 
be fair in the circumstances. 
As six months have now passed since Mr Rs credit limit was decreased, Mr R may now 
wish to re-apply for a limit increase. I note that Mr Rs now asked for a definitive list of what 
documents are required, as well as a designated contact at Barclaycard to deal with any 
such request.  While I fully appreciate why Mr R may want this, its not my place to set out 
what Barclaycards processes should be around such matters. Especially, given that the 
specific documentation that may be available at the time is unclear. Its also the case, that 
any specific point of contact given now, may not be available at the time Mr R comes to re-
apply. So, I dont think it would be right for me to instruct Barclaycard to follow through on 
this request, as there are variables here that may fall outside of their control.
I would however, encourage Barclaycard to take into account Mr Rs personal circumstances 
when considering any credit limit increase request, both in terms of the timescales in which 
Mr R should be expected to provide the required information; and, the information hes likely 
to be able to provide. They should also consider whether it might be possible to make an 
informed decision on any application Mr R makes based on what might be less evidence 
than it would usually obtain  given Mr Rs circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint and instruct Barclays Bank UK PLC 
trading as Barclaycard to pay Mr R £200 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Brad McIlquham
Ombudsman