DRN-4045560
The complaint
Mrs T complains that Aviva Insurance Limited has turned down a claim she made on a travel 
insurance policy.
Mrs T is represented by Mr N.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I havent set them out 
in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Mrs T held a single trip travel insurance policy. She was due to fly abroad in July 2022 and 
take a connecting flight to another country. Unfortunately, the day before she was due to 
travel, her outbound flight from the UK was cancelled. So Mr N contacted Aviva to ask 
whether the cost of replacement flights would be covered.
Aviva gave Mr N conflicting information about the policy cover. He and Mrs T were led to 
believe there was up to £5000 of cover for their situation. But shortly afterwards, they were 
told that neither the cost of replacement flights, nor the connecting flight they were unable to 
take would be covered. However, Aviva provided incorrect information about why Mrs Ts 
costs werent covered.
Mrs T was unhappy with Avivas decision and she complained. Aviva acknowledged it had 
provided Mrs T with poor service and it offered her £200 compensation to reflect the impact 
this had had on her. But it maintained its decision to turn down her claim.
Remaining unhappy with Avivas position, Mrs T asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She thought itd been fair 
for Aviva to conclude that the claim wasnt covered by the policy terms. And she felt that 
Avivas offer of compensation was reasonable.
Mrs T disagreed. She felt that Aviva had scammed her and thousands of other customers. 
Shed requested compensation from the airline, which wasnt going to pay out. She 
considered that this had been what the travel insurance policy was for. And Mr N told the 
investigator that Avivas handling of the claim had caused real upset to Mrs Ts family.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T, I think it was fair for Aviva to turn down 
her claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mrs Ts policy and the circumstances of her claim, to decide whether Aviva 
treated her fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mrs T and Aviva. Theres no dispute that Mrs T wasnt able to travel as planned on 
16 July 2022 due to the cancellation of her flight by the airline. It seems she was able to 
arrange new flights abroad and travelled a few weeks later. 
The cancellation section of the policy states that Aviva will cover a policyholders 
irrecoverable cancellation costs if a trip is cancelled because of one the specific, defined 
insured events. This list includes a policyholders illness; quarantine; redundancy; being 
called for jury service and being denied boarding due to an airlines overbooking.
However, Aviva doesnt provide cancellation cover if an airline cancels a flight ahead of 
travel. Thats because, generally, a policyholder should be entitled to a full refund of their 
ticket costs from the airline. And while I appreciate Mrs T wasnt able to make her connecting 
flight due to the original flight cancellation, this wasnt down to any of the insured events 
Aviva covers under the cancellation section of the policy. I appreciate Mrs T hasnt been able 
to recover the cost of her connecting flight from the airline, but I cant fairly hold Aviva 
responsible for the airlines decision on this point. Its clear too that replacement flight costs 
simply dont fall within the scope of cancellation cover either. 
Ive looked carefully at the remaining sections of the core policy Mrs T held  in particular, 
missed international departure and delayed departure after check-in. But I dont think I could 
fairly find that Mrs Ts claim is covered by these sections of the policy either. Thats because 
Mrs T didnt miss her flight because of one of the events Aviva covers  her flight was 
cancelled. Technically, Mrs Ts ultimate departure was delayed because of the flight 
cancellation. However, Avivas notes indicate that Mr N told it that Mrs T hadnt checked-in. 
Id add that under the terms of her policy, while cancellation cover applied from 15 June 
2022, the remainder of cover only began on 16 July 2022. The policy defines the period of 
cover for all sections aside from cancellation as starting when you leave your home on the 
trip In this case, Ive seen no evidence that Mrs T had left her home to start her trip at the 
point her flight was cancelled. So in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think 
I could fairly or reasonably direct Aviva to pay delay benefit. And overall, I dont think there 
are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct Aviva to pay this claim.
Nonetheless, its clear that Aviva didnt handle this claim as well as it shouldve done. It 
accepts that it gave Mrs T unclear and incorrect information about the cover her policy 
provided. I also appreciate she was disappointed when she thought replacement flights 
could be covered, only to learn that this wasnt the case. I was sorry to hear about the upset 
this caused her family too. So I think that its appropriate that Aviva should pay Mrs T 
compensation for its mistakes.
When considering what fair compensation should be, I need to bear in mind whether I think 
Aviva caused Mrs T any direct financial loss and the level of material distress and 
inconvenience I think its errors caused her. I acknowledge that Mrs T was led to believe that 
there might be policy cover for replacement flights. But it doesnt appear that she went 
ahead and booked new flights based on this misinformation, which was corrected shortly 
afterwards. On that basis then, Ive seen no evidence that Avivas errors caused any direct 
financial loss to Mrs T. And in my view, £200 is fair compensation to reflect the material 
frustration, inconvenience and upset I think its likely Avivas errors caused Mrs T while it 
looked into her claim and complaint. This means I think its compensation offer is a fair one 
and Im not directing it to pay anything more. Its open to Mrs T to now contact Aviva directly 
should she wish to accept its offer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman