DRN-3372293
The complaint
L complains about the decision of QIC Europe Ltd to decline its business interruption 
insurance claim for losses arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. 
What happened
L operates as a pub and held an industry specific commercial insurance policy underwritten 
by QIC. L says that on 18 March 2020 it closed due to at least one occurrence of COVID-19 
at its premises. A couple of days later the Prime Minister announced that all pubs should 
close, and regulations were made on 21 and 26 March 2020 (the March Regulations) 
formalising this requirement. As a result, L was unable to reopen its premises until 
July 2020. 
L contacted QIC to claim for its losses resulting from this closure. Third parties have been 
involved in much of the exchange of communication, but I have referred to L and QIC alone 
for the sake of simplicity and because they are the parties to the complaint. 
QIC declined Ls claim. It said that the core business interruption cover provided by Ls 
policy was based on there having been damage to property, and such damage was not the 
cause of Ls closure. QIC also said that there was an extension to this cover that related to 
diseases. The relevant clause provides cover for losses caused by:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises

subject to a maximum of £50,000 for any one loss

QIC said that this clause would provide some cover in relation to COVID-19, as the disease 
would fall into the definition of a Notifiable Human Disease. However, QIC said that L had 
not shown that an occurrence of such a disease had happened, nor that if there was such an 
occurrence this had led to closure on the advice of or with the approval of the Medical Officer 
of Health for the Public Authority. QIC confirmed that it did not consider the March 
Regulations would have been as a result of an occurrence at Ls premises, even if one could 
be demonstrated.
L complained about the decision in respect of the disease clause, but QIC did not change its 
stance. So, L brought its complaint to this service. L provided evidence to try and 
demonstrate there had been an occurrence of COVID-19 at the premises. 
This evidence included comments, provided in testimony Ls general manager gave in 
January 2021, that some staff members had apparently said they were unwell with flu-like 
symptoms and high temperatures. 
One of Ls customers, who Ill call Mr D, provided testimony in January 2021 of being at the 
premises on 15 March 2020 and then developing symptoms around five days later. Evidence 
was provided to indicate that he was at the premises on 15 March. His testimony was also 
supported by notes of a phone consultation with his doctor on 24 March 2020, in which Mr D 
had reported symptoms developing from around 21 March and then progressing. These 
symptoms included aches, a very heavy chest, coughing, temperature with associated 
shortness of breath. Mr D was advised to contact NHS 111 and apparently then self-isolated 
as a result.
Another of Ls customers, who Ill call Mr W, also provided testimony in January 2021. In 
this he said that he had been at Ls premises on 14 March 2020 and then began to feel 
unwell and had zero energy on 17 March. He said that on 18 March, as his symptoms were 
unresolved, he contacted L to let them know as their premises were the only place he had 
visited. That this call occurred is supported by the general managers testimony. Mr W says 
he remained in self-isolation for the following week, until his condition began to deteriorate 
over the subsequent few days before he was hospitalised on 30 March. L has provided a 
discharge note from Mr Ws hospital dated 7 April 2020 which confirms he had tested 
positive for COVID-19. 
Our Investigator was ultimately persuaded by this evidence that there was more likely than 
not an occurrence of COVID-19 at Ls premises in the period before it closed. He felt it was 
most likely that the feeling of being unwell that Mr W said he had experienced on 17 March 
was as a result of the same illness he tested positive for when hospitalised, i.e. COVID-19. 
And he thought it most likely that Mr W had already sustained this illness at the point he was 
most likely at Ls premises on 14 March 2020.
The Investigator also shared a copy of a previous decision of this service which found that 
there was cover for the impact of the government-imposed restrictions, following a similar 
insured event as in this case. His opinion was that the same conclusion should be reached 
in Ls case. 
Effectively, the Investigators opinion was that whilst the courts in The Financial Conduct 
Authority & Ors v Arch Insurance (UK) Ltd & Ors [2021] UKSC 1 and the related judgment in 
the court at first instance (the FCA test case) were not asked to consider terms, as in Ls 
policy, where the relevant event of disease happened at the premises (at the premises 
clauses), the findings of the Supreme Court in relation to policies requiring that event 
happen with a particular radius of the premises (radius clauses) were useful in considering 
at the premises clause related complaints. 
The Investigator said that the Supreme Court had essentially found that each case of 
COVID-19 was a separate but broadly equal cause of the Governments response to the 
pandemic and the business interruption that resulted from this. That they were each 
concurrent proximate causes of the Governments decisions. And that these decisions had 
taken into account reported and unreported cases. As such, the Investigator considered that 
the case of COVID-19 that he considered had most likely occurred at Ls premises was a 
concurrent cause of the March Regulations. 
So, the Investigator considered the impact of the restrictions on L was something that was 
covered by the policy. He thought Ls claim should be met, subject to any remaining terms of 
the policy, on the basis that the closure of its premises from 20 March 2020 was caused by 
an insured event. He also thought interest should be added to the settlement of the claim. 
However, QIC were not persuaded by the Investigators opinion. As such this case has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
Before I go onto explain my decision, I will summarise the key arguments made by QIC. Generally, they fall into two categories  whether there was an occurrence at Ls premises 
and, if so, whether this can be said to have led to the March Regulations. 
In terms of the evidence of an occurrence, QIC said:
The evidence provided in relation to a number of individuals L had indicated may 
have had COVID-19 and been at the premises was very limited. 
QIC did not dispute that Mr W had most likely attended Ls premises on 14 March 
and accepted that Mr W most likely had COVID-19 when admitted to hospital on 
30 March 2020. But said that this did not demonstrate hed had the disease when at 
the premises. A positive test result does not amount to evidence of when Mr W had 
first sustained COVID-19.
The symptoms Mr W describes as having on 17 March do not demonstrate he had 
COVID-19 at that time. 
QIC said it was extremely unlikely Mr W didnt visit any other location between 
14 and 17 March, and could have contracted COVID-19 at some point between 
14 March and when he began self-isolating. 
Mr W could have phoned L for any number of reasons on 18 March and no 
supporting evidence beyond the testimonies referred to has been provided in relation 
to this.
In relation to whether, if there was an occurrence of COVID-19 at the premises, this was the 
cause of Ls losses, QIC said:
QIC did not accept that the closure or restrictions placed on Ls premises were as a 
result of that occurrence. And said the closure would have occurred irrespective of 
that occurrence. 
QIC considered the proximate cause of the insured's business interruption losses 
was not the occurrence of Covid-19 at the insured premises but the closure of the 
insured premises ordered by the UK Government in response to the Covid-19 
pandemic generally.
Any occurrence at the premises was not reported until after the Prime Ministers 
announcement, if at all, and so could not have been a cause of that announcement. 
The Supreme Court in the FCA test case was not requested to consider at the 
premises extensions to cover. And Investigators opinion, in applying the courts 
reasoning, does so in a matter the court did not intend.
The at the premises clause is fundamentally different to the radius clauses 
considered by the court, which might provide a large geographical area in with 
occurrences of a disease might fall. The at the premises clause is, in QICs view, 
plainly intended to respond to business interruption losses caused by an isolated, 
local, occurrence of a disease and not to any wider consequences of that disease.
QIC considered that at the time the policy was incepted, the intention of the at the 
premises clause was to provide cover for losses caused by extremely localised 
occurrence i.e. occurrences occurring only at the premises. And was not intended to 
provide wider cover for losses caused by Government action due to a wider 
pandemic.
An occurrence at the premises would also amount to an occurrence outside of the 
premises, as they are not residential premises and any person who had sustained 
the disease would therefore only be present temporarily. 
The alleged occurrences of COVID-19 were prior to the inception of the policy on 17 March 2020.
Prior to coming to my decision, I shared with QIC some of my thoughts around the 
timeframes that might be relevant when thinking about when someone had sustained 
COVID-19. The Supreme Court has said that an occurrence of COVID-19 happens when a 
relevant individual becomes diagnosable with the disease. And that the guidance from, 
amongst others, the World Health Organisation (WHO) suggests that a person often 
becomes diagnosable 1-3 days after infection. It is then likely that another few days will 
elapse before a person displays any symptoms of the disease. Again, using the WHO 
guidance this is commonly around 5-6 days after infection. And then it apparently often takes 
another week or so before a person is hospitalised.  
I pointed out that whilst these are merely an indication of what might be expected in an 
individual, the progression of the disease in each individual would likely be different. And that 
in some cases it apparently took several weeks for individuals to display symptoms or to be 
hospitalised, if either of these actually happened. 
Based on this, I felt that the evidence I had considered at that point suggested the initial key 
question for me to determine was, assuming the evidence around Mr Ws condition was 
persuasive, whether the 13-day gap between him initial developing symptoms and his 
hospitalisation meant his initial symptoms were of the same illness that he was later 
diagnosed with; i.e. COVID-19. 
QIC responded emphasising the figures included in a couple of online reports I had myself 
referenced. QIC said one of these advised the time between the onset of symptoms and 
hospitalization varies between 1-6.7 days with the average period being 4 days in the 20-80 
year age bracket. QIC referred to the fact this report was from 2021, indicating it was likely 
based on more complete information that the other report. The other report had referred to 
the median time between symptoms and hospitalisation as being between 3 to 10.4 days.  
QIC effectively said that based on either of these timeframes, Mr Ws symptoms had 
occurred outside the period suggested. And that if he had been suffering with symptoms of 
COVID-19 on 17 March, he would have been hospitalised sooner. So, QIC considered Mr W 
likely did not have COVID-19 at that point, or on 14 March 2020 when he was at the 
premises. As such, QIC asked me to provide my final decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The clause above, as it appears in Ls policy, has a number of elements. In their correct 
causal sequence, these are:
1. an occurrence of a Notifiable Human Disease at Ls premises, which causes
2. closure or restrictions placed on the premises on the advice or with the approval of 
the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority, which cause
3. an interruption or interference with Ls business that is the cause of financial loss.
I agree that the key issues for me to determine in this complaint fall into the two categories of 
QICs own representations. Firstly, whether there was more likely than not an occurrence of 
COVID-19 at Ls premises. Secondly, if so, whether this caused a closure or restrictions 
being placed on Ls premises on the advice of or with the approval of the Medical Officer of 
Health for the Public Authority. I will deal with these in turn. Was there most likely an occurrence of COVID-19 at Ls premises?
In March 2020 COVID-19 was reasonably prevalent and Ls premises are located within a 
major city centre. However, it is necessary for a policyholder to demonstrate that an insured 
event has occurred before a claim will be met. This must be demonstrated to have occurred 
on the balance of probabilities  i.e. that it is more likely than not that the event happened. 
Whilst it is possible the location of Ls premises mean that someone may have attended the 
premises will COVID-19, this is not enough to satisfy this test. However, it must also be 
borne in mind that general testing for COVID-19 was not available. So, a pragmatic 
approach is generally necessary, taking into account all of the available evidence. 
As with any assessment of evidence, several aspects mean that more weight can be placed 
on certain evidence as opposed to others. For example, a document produced 
contemporaneously for a purpose unconnected to the matter at hand is likely to be more 
persuasive than testimony produced some time after the events for the express purpose of 
the claim. That is not to say testimony is not useful. But it is recognised that memories can 
and do change over the course of time. 
In this case, some of the evidence provided is lacking in detail or corroboration. For 
example, there are comments that some staff members displayed symptoms of illness. But 
no contemporaneous evidence of this has been produced, and the symptoms described are 
not clearly indicative of COVID-19. As well as COVID-19, people in March 2020 would have 
been suffering from other illness with some of the similar symptoms. Indeed, the symptoms 
are described as being flu like and it isnt clear these individuals didnt just have flu. 
The evidence in relation to Mr D is supported to an extent by the medical records provided. 
These are contemporaneous. It also isnt clear why Mr D would have been reporting his 
illness other than to seek medical advice. So, I think it is likely he was suffering from the 
symptoms described at the time he says he was. However, the timeframe involved with 
these symptoms is not the most helpful in demonstrating he most likely had sustained 
COVID-19 at the time he was at the premises. It certainly isnt out of the question that he did 
have the disease when at the premises.
However, the clearest evidence of someone having sustained COVID-19 is of course a 
positive test result. Mr W did receive such a positive test result, so it is reasonably certain 
that he did sustain COVID-19. The issue is that this test result is some time after he says he 
was at the premises and then developed initial symptoms. 
QIC has referred to the timeframes in the two reports I myself referred to. I should point out 
that the 2021 report actually relies in part on the other report. And the report also says that 
relevant the period was more than 6.7 days in a quarter of the relevant patients. So, whilst 
the indicated timeframe is a useful average, this should not be seen as a maximum. These 
two reports are of course not the only such documents that discuss the relevant timeframes. 
Other peer reviewed medical journals available online refer this issue and express slightly 
different average timeframes. However, the general indication is that a period of 13 days 
between the onset of symptoms and hospitalisation is longer than most, though not all, 
patients experienced. 
These are though, as I have previously said, only an indication of what might be commonly 
expected and the progression of the disease is different in different individuals. These 
timeframes merely provide a guide when thinking about the balance of probability. It is more 
likely that someone whose disease progresses in line with the suggested timeframes had the 
disease at the relevant points, than someone whose disease progresses along a different timeframe. The further outside the timeframe the less likely they had the disease at the 
relevant points. 
Along with these timeframes, it is also necessary to consider the other evidence available in 
order to build a picture of what is more likely than not. 
In Mr Ws case, I think it is most likely that he was at Ls premises on 14 March. The 
testimony on this point has been consistent and supporting evidence has also been 
provided. This supporting evidence includes photos that seemingly do not give a clear 
picture of Mr W, as they apparently only show him from the back. But taken as a whole, I am 
persuaded that Mr W was most likely at the premises on 14 March. 
Mr W has said that he developed symptoms on 17 March 2020, and then called L to let them 
know the following day. Whilst the only direct supporting evidence of this is the general 
managers testimony, I also note the L apparently made the decision to close on 
18 March 2020. It isnt clear why it would have taken this decision if the circumstances 
described are incorrect. As a pub in a central location, it seems likely to me that it would still 
have been busy  indeed many pubs enjoyed a busier period in this week than usual. It may 
be that Mr W did not call, and the decision L took was based on its own staff displaying 
symptoms of what it was concerned was COVID-19. But the testimony around the events 
has again been consistent and I see no reason not to believe the statements provided on 
this point. So, I think it is most likely Mr W called L on 18 March 2020. 
I also think it is most likely that this call was made because Mr W was feeling ill and felt a 
responsibility to let L know. So, I consider it is most likely Mr W was displaying symptoms of 
illness on 17 March.
Based purely on the symptoms described, I would not say these are conclusive that Mr W 
had COVID-19 at this point. The symptoms are more general rather than some of the more 
specific issues caused by COVID-19. However, having concluded Mr W was most likely 
displaying symptoms of some form of illness on 17 March, it is necessary to consider 
whether this was most likely the same illness as that he was diagnosed with after his 
hospitalisation on 30 March. 
As mentioned, this timeframe does sit outside that indicated would be the average. However, 
it is necessary to consider whether this means it is more likely that Mr W suffered from an 
initial illness that led to symptoms on 17 March, and then a separate illness that led to his 
hospitalisation on 30 March. 
If I were to consider when Mr W likely became infected based on the timeframes above, this 
would be about two weeks prior to his hospitalisation. Meaning he would most likely have 
been infected on or around 16 March 2020.
Mr W has said he did not attend any other location between 14 and 17 March 2020. QIC has 
said this is extremely unlikely, but has not indicated why it thinks this. This is not an 
extensive period of time, and if Mr W was either not working or was working from home, it 
seems perfectly feasible that he would not have left his home for 3 days. And this is 
supported by the call I believe it is most likely he made to L. Had Mr W been at other 
premises over this time, I consider it less likely he would have felt obliged to contact L in 
particular. 
It is possible Mr W did not then remain at home after 18 March 2020. But he has said that he 
did remain at home for the following week. Given his testimony that he was concerned that 
he had COVID-19 at this time, and the Government advice for people to self-isolate, I find 
this persuasive. It is also possible that Mr W contracted COVID-19 whilst at home, perhaps from his partner. But there has been no indication that this was the course of events. And 
whilst many potential chains of events are possible, my role is to consider whether I think it is 
more likely than not that the symptoms Mr W said he was experiencing on 17 March were 
those of a disease that led to his hospitalisation. 
Overall, I am not persuaded it is more likely than not that Mr W suffered from two illnesses, 
with some similar symptoms, one occurring on 17 March 2020 and a second leading to his 
hospitalisation on 30 March 2020. Whilst this is a possibility, I think it is most likely that Mr W 
was displaying symptoms on 17 March of the same disease that led to his hospitalisation. 
And given the hospital test result, I think this disease was most likely COVID-19. 
I also consider it is most likely that Mr W had sustained the disease at least three days prior 
to him initially developing symptoms. And I consider it is most likely that he was at Ls 
premises on 14 March 2020 at a time when he had sustained COVID-19. It follows that I 
consider there was at least one occurrence of COVID-19 at Ls premises prior to the 
Governments decision to introduce restrictions that interrupted Ls business. 
What remains is to determine whether these restrictions were introduced as a result of this 
occurrence. 
Did the occurrence of COVID-19 at Ls premises cause a closure or restrictions being placed 
on Ls premises on the advice of or with the approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the 
Public Authority?
In determining this point, I need to consider whether the approach taken by the Supreme 
Court to radius clauses should also be applied to the above clause, given the content of that 
clause and the context of the rest of policy and circumstances. 
Largely speaking, the question of whether the placing of restrictions on Ls premises by the 
announcement and March Regulations was as a result of the occurrence of COVID-19 at Ls 
premises, is one of causation. The appropriate test of causation here is to consider, 
objectively and in the context of the policy as a whole, what the intended effect of the policy 
term was as it applies to the circumstances of the claim.
So, the first question to determine is whether the reasoning of the Supreme Court in the FCA 
test case, on radius clauses, applies to at the premises clauses. As indicated by the 
Investigator, this is an issue that has already been considered by this service and a copy of 
a relevant final decision has been shared with QIC. However, they disagree with the 
approach of this service. 
But whilst different policies have different wordings, there is no significant difference 
between the contractual construction of the radius clauses to the at the premises clauses. 
The only difference between these clauses is the geographical area that they cover.
The Supreme Court had not been asked to determine the correct interpretation of at the 
premises clauses. But it did make some comments, at paragraph 71 of its judgment, in 
relation to a specific policy that some insurers have suggested means the reasoning behind 
the courts approach to causation does not apply. But the policy being considered by the 
court at this point included both in the radius and at the premises subclauses, and this 
was likely to be context the court bore in mind when considering the potential meaning of the 
term. This is not the case with Ls policy.
The Supreme Court was also, at this point in its judgment, considering the scope of the 
insured peril, rather than matters of causation. And, whilst the Supreme Court said that the 
scope of the insured peril for an at the premises clause was not the entire outbreak even if there was an occurrence on the premises, this was also the conclusion it reached in relation 
to the radius clauses. The Supreme Court found that the insured peril for radius clauses was 
also not the entire outbreak provided it came within the radius. There was no distinction 
between radius and premises clauses drawn by the Supreme Court here. And I consider 
both types of clause provide cover for cases within their geographical limits and not cover for 
cases elsewhere. 
The Supreme Courts reasoning  that the insured peril is each case of COVID-19 that falls 
within the geographical limit of the clause  applies equally to at the premises clauses as it 
does to radius clauses.
Additionally, the Supreme Court did not make any distinction between radius clauses and 
premises clauses when these were combined in the same policy. A single case  even at the 
premises  was considered sufficient for the cover to respond and to cover the losses 
sustained by the insured party as a result of that occurrence. The Supreme Court confirmed 
that a single case can be enough for causation to be established under a radius clause, and 
there would be cover under a clause containing both a premises and radius subclauses if the 
only case of COVID-19, within the geographical limits of the clause, was at the premises. 
The only significant difference in the construction of the at the premises clauses with the 
radius clauses is the geographical area they specify. This can be undefined, the whole 
country, a 25-mile radius, a 250-metre radius, or the policyholders premises. A clause that 
sets out a smaller area only acts to limit the possibility of a case occurring, and so limit the 
chances of a claim being made. This is a reasonable and understandable commercial intent 
by an underwriter.
I should also point out here that the premises of some policyholders will be greater than a 
250-metre radius. And it would be illogical to consider that a policy requiring a case of 
COVID-19 within a radius smaller than a policyholders premises would provide cover for the 
consequences of the March Regulations, but that this would not be the case if the policy 
specified a larger area  that of the entire premises.
Ultimately, the court found that the approach that applied to the interpretation of the insured 
peril was the same for both radius clauses and at the premises clauses. And that this was 
that clause only covers the cases of COVID-19 which happen within that radius. The cover is 
for the cases of disease within the radius (or at the premises, depending on the wording of 
the policy), not for the disease itself nor for the consequences of diseases outside the 
radius/premises.
The impact on the cover of requiring the disease to occur on the premises is the same as is 
provided by a policy limiting the relevant radius to one mile, rather than 25 miles. It does not 
change the form of cover provided, it merely lowers the chance of the policy term being 
activated. There is less chance of occurrence at the premises than within one mile of the 
premises, and there is less chance of an occurrence within one mile of the premises than 
within 25 miles. Each individual case of COVID-19, regardless of where it occurred, was an 
equal cause of the restrictions being imposed. But for the impact of that occurrence to be 
covered, the occurrence must be within the geographical limit set by the policy.
Taken at face value, radius clauses offer the same type of cover as at the premises clauses 
 the only difference being a smaller geographical area where the occurrence needs to take 
place before resulting business interruption is covered. 
I also consider the type of disease covered by the policy is also a relevant consideration. Ls 
policy, as with many similar policies  both those with radius clauses and at the premises 
clauses - provides cover for a wide range of diseases. Many of these diseases are unlikely to have originated at the premises, so an occurrence there is likely to be part of a larger 
outbreak. If QIC had wanted to restrict cover in Ls policy to disease originating at the 
premises, it could have done so. But it did not.
The same risk of a widespread and unpredictable outbreak of disease applies to both radius 
clauses and at the premises clauses. If these wide-spreading diseases are on the 
policyholders premises, they are also likely to be found outside of these premises. So, 
whether or not the disease is on the premises, it seems that the actions of the relevant 
authority will in fact largely be the same.
It is likely restrictions would be introduced covering a broad geographical area in relation to 
many of the diseases covered by Ls policy. And this would have been something that both 
QIC and L might reasonably have been aware of at the time the insurance contract was 
entered. I note the Supreme Courts comments at paragraph 194 of its judgment in respect 
of this point:
we consider that the matters of background knowledge to which the court below 
attached weight in interpreting the policy wordings are important. The parties to the 
insurance contracts may be presumed to have known that some infectious diseases - 
including, potentially, a new disease (like SARS) - can spread rapidly, widely and 
unpredictably. It is obvious that an outbreak of an infectious disease may not be 
confined to a specific locality or to a circular area delineated by a radius of 25 miles 
around a policyholders premises. Hence no reasonable person would suppose that, 
if an outbreak of an infectious disease occurred which included cases within such a 
radius and was sufficiently serious to interrupt the policyholders business, all the 
cases of disease would necessarily occur within the radius. It is highly likely that such 
an outbreak would comprise cases both inside and outside the radius and that 
measures taken by a public authority which affected the business would be taken in 
response to the outbreak as a whole and not just to those cases of disease which 
happened to fall within the circumference of the circle described by the radius 
provision.
I consider this reasoning also applies in relation to a policy which provides cover only where 
there is an occurrence of such a disease at the premises of the insured. Whilst some of the 
notifiable diseases covered by the policy would in some cases be limited to a very localised 
outbreak  potentially contained to the premises  many of the diseases covered by the 
policy would inherently be those that would be found beyond the premises if they ever 
occurred at the premises. As with radius clauses, it would be contrary to the commercial 
purpose of the policies for cases of disease occurring outside the premises to deprive the 
policyholder of cover for cases at the premises.
I consider it likely that if there were occurrences of many of the diseases covered by Ls 
policy, the actions taken would likely have been similar. The actions taken by other 
governments in relation to outbreaks of SARS and Ebola which led to broad geographical 
areas or multiple types of business having restrictions imposed on them would provide 
examples of this. It seems that the more likely the disease is to be wide-spreading, the more 
wide-spread the restrictions will be that are imposed to control that disease.
By including cover for a number of diseases where the likely actions to be taken would be 
those that would impact more than a single premises, I considered QIC has seemingly 
agreed to provide cover where actions are taken (in relevant situations) that impact more 
than just the insureds premises.
The Supreme Court found that each and every occurrence of COVID-19 was an 
approximately equal and proximate cause of the Governments decision-making process. The Supreme Court set out some general principles or standards to be applied when 
considering the proximate cause of loss. These included determining whether a peril that is 
covered by the policy had any causal involvement and, if so, whether a peril that was 
excluded from the cover provided by the policy had any such involvement. And then 
determining whether the occurrence of one of these made the loss inevitable in the ordinary 
course of events.
The court went onto say that whilst the Governments decisions to introduce the restrictions 
in March 2020 could not reasonably be attributed to any individual occurrence of COVID-19, 
this decision was taken in response to all the cases in the country as a whole. And the 
Supreme Court agreed with the High Court here that, all the cases were equal causes of the 
imposition of national measures. The Supreme Court found that here was no reason why 
one insured event, acting in combination within a number of uninsured events, should not be 
regarded as a proximate cause of loss even if that insured event was not necessary or 
sufficient to bring about the loss on its own. And that; Whether that causal connection is 
sufficient to trigger the insurers obligation to indemnify the policyholder depends on what 
has been agreed between them.
As such, a key issue was what risks QIC agreed to cover. This is a question of contractual 
interpretation of Ls policy, answered by applying the intended effect of the policy to the 
circumstances of Ls claim.
QIC has said that the intention of the clause could only have been reasonably understood as 
providing cover for losses caused by an extremely localised occurrence, and would not 
reasonably have been understood as providing cover for a wider pandemic. QIC also said 
that if there were occurrences on Ls premises, these would be present both at and outside 
the premises once the individuals left. 
In making its findings in the test case, the Supreme Court relied on the presumption that an 
infectious and contagious disease  like many of those QIC chose to cover in Ls policy  
can spread rapidly, widely and unpredictably, so that an outbreak which is sufficiently 
serious to lead to a policyholder suffering an interruption to their business was highly likely to 
include cases inside and outside the radius relevant to the policy. The court found it would 
not be feasible, and would be contrary to the commercial intent of the policy, for cases 
outside of the radius to deprive the policyholder of cover in relation to cases within the 
radius. I note the comments of paragraph 206 of the Supreme Court judgment which support 
this.
Radius clauses did not limit cover to situations where the interruption of the business was 
caused only by cases of disease occurring within the area, as distinct from other cases 
outside the area. And, in such circumstances, other concurrent effects on an insured 
business of the underlying cause of the business interruption, i.e. the pandemic generally, do 
not reduce the indemnity under the relevant clause.
I see no persuasive reason why the considerations that the Supreme Court applied generally 
to radius clauses do not equally apply to at the premises clauses. And feel the same applies 
here to Ls complaint. As the Supreme Court said, all that is necessary for a radius clause 
which also requires the closure to be as a result of, for example, government action, is for 
the closure or restrictions to be in response to cases of COVID-19 which included at least 
one case existing within the geographical area set out in the relevant clause. In Ls case, this 
geographical area is its premises and I consider there was at least one occurrence of 
COVID-19 within this area. And I consider the Governments actions and advice were in 
response to cases of COVID-19, which included the case(s) that occurred at Ls premises.
It might be that the case(s) of COVID-19 at Ls premises would not have been reported to the Government at the time it made its decision. But I do not consider this point to be crucial 
in terms of the discussion of causation. It is clear that as well as the reported cases that the 
Government was specifically aware of, the decision it took was also made due to the 
estimated number of unreported cases. 
It was the number of these unreported cases, as well as the reported ones, that would have 
led to the Government making its decision. Each one of these reported and unreported 
cases will have arguably been a proximate cause of the Governments decision-making 
process. But it would not be possible for an estimated occurrence to lead to an insurance 
claim where an actual occurrence was required by the policy.
It is also clear that in thinking about both the reported and unreported cases the Government 
was making its decision based on historic data. The models being considered were 
predictions of future hospitalisations taking into account, amongst other things, the 
reproduction ratio of the infection (the R-number), which is affected by numerous factors that 
govern pathogen transmission and is, as I understand it, therefore usually estimated using 
different complex mathematical models. And the data referenced in the Governments 
briefings was based on the events that took place over the preceding weeks.
By the time the decision to introduce the March Regulations was taken, a number of 
individuals included in the figures of who had sustained COVID-19 may already have 
recovered. But I consider these cases would still be those that, together with the other cases 
around that time, were the concurrent causes of the Governments decision. The 
Government and its advisors were not looking at individual cases in isolation, they were 
considering the accumulation of these which would have formed the framework of the rate of 
infection and allowed for a prediction as to the future R-number and resultant 
hospitalisations.
I note that the courts indicated that a person passing through an area, involving no contact 
with anyone and therefore no risk of transmitting the disease, might not be enough to trigger 
the insured peril under a radius clause. However, I consider this is entirely different from 
someone who remained in the area for some time and had numerous interactions with 
various people. Whilst that person may then have left the area in question, their presence 
created a risk of the disease having been transmitted. And it is this risk, and the potential of 
this leading to hospitalisation and the overwhelming of the NHS, that led to the 
Governments decisions at this time.
Although each case of disease was individual, the effects of the disease  the Governments 
measures  were indivisible. And as the Supreme Court said at paragraph 212 of its 
judgment: 
each of the individual cases of illness resulting from COVID-19 which had 
occurred by the date of any Government action was a separate and equally effective 
cause of that action
QIC did also argue that if there was an occurrence on 14 March 2020, this was prior to the 
inception of the policy on 17 March. But as the Investigator has said, the clause in question 
is a composite one and an insured event cannot be said to have occurred until all the 
relevant elements have taken place. In this case, the Governments announcement was after 
the inception of the policy. So I do not consider this causes a problem with Ls ability to claim 
in the circumstances. 
Ls policy does require that the actions taken by the Government were based on the advice 
of or with the approval of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority. The term 
Medical Officer of Health is not defined within the policy. As such, it needs to be interpreted as it would be understood by a reasonable person at the time of entering the contract.
Medical officer of health is largely a historical term. It was used in the Public Health Act 
1961, but it is not in more recent public health legislation. Section 37 of this Act relates to the 
sale of verminous articles and appears to be the only legislative term relating to the medical 
officer of health. The role itself is also historic and no longer exists. I note that when the role 
was in existence, it did have a focus on local authority matters rather than anything national. 
But I consider this to be a reflection of the make-up of healthcare services generally at the 
time medical officers of health were introduced, rather than the current situation which is 
more of a mix between national and localised healthcare.
I consider the current set-up of the healthcare system is also significant when considering 
the potential actions taken in the face of many of the diseases covered by Ls policy. As set 
out above, the responses to many of these diseases would be wide-spread and would 
require more nationally-orientated action. To say that the policy provides cover for a disease 
that would likely only be acted upon by national government, but then to limit cover to the 
actions of a local authority would, to my mind, provide an irrational result.
QIC has said that, in the terms of Ls policy and specifically the definition of Notifiable 
Human Disease, a relevant human infectious or contagious disease would need to be 
notified to the competent local authority and that this is a different entity to the Medical 
Officer of Health for the Public Authority. I dont consider the definition in the policy to be the 
best drafted, but I do agree that these two entities are likely different. However, I dont see 
the fact the has having a significant bearing on the outcome of this complaint. 
Under the Health Protection (Notification) Regulations 2010 a doctor is required to notify the 
proper officer of a local authority when a notifiable disease is found, or suspected, in a 
patient. The list of notifiable diseases is updated by the Government, and COVID-19 was 
added to this list in early March 2020. QIC apparently consider that the definition of 
Notifiable Human Disease is, in part, a reference to this list. However, when a local authority 
is informed about such a disease occurring, they were then obliged to inform the Health 
Protection Agency (as existed previously). Depending on the events in question, the matter 
will be escalated as appropriate and advice might be given, potentially by the Chief Medical 
Officer for England, to the Government on whether to take action. Effectively, this is what 
happened during the COVID-19 pandemic. And it is unclear why QIC has said that the 
difference between the two entities referred to means the clause does not apply to the 
circumstances. 
Ultimately, the at the premises clause in Ls policy refers to a term that is dated and it would 
not be reasonable to expect a customer taking out an insurance policy of this nature to 
understand the historical positioning of a redundant role, and then apply that to how the 
clause in question should be interpreted in relation to cover for a wide-spreading disease. An 
alternative question is whether a reasonable customer would consider that a clause referring 
to the advice of the Medical Officer of Health would include the advice of the Chief Medical 
Officer for England. I consider that this is how a reasonable person would have interpreted 
this clause at the time the policy was taken out.
As such, taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account, I consider that Ls policy 
should cover it for the losses it sustained when it was interrupted by the Prime Ministers 
announcement and the subsequent regulations made on 21 March and 26 March 2020. This 
means I consider QIC is liable for the full extent of the period L was closed by the 
Governments restrictions, subject to the relevant policy limits. 
I am satisfied that Ls policy with QIC is a contract with its own terms. I have considered how 
these terms would likely have been interpreted by a reasonable person at the point the contract was entered into, bearing in mind that it is a policy sold to SMEs.
I dont think a reasonable person would interpret a clause that provides cover in relation to 
various diseases, including those most likely to be wide-spread and hence requiring far-
reaching measures to tackle them, to be limited to consequences directed solely at the 
insureds premises.
I think it is reasonable to read Ls at the premises cause, in the context of the rest of the 
policy and the circumstances of the claim, as providing cover for losses resulting from the 
occurrence(s) of COVID-19 at its premises. Although I cant be sure, I also this this was 
more likely than not that this is how a court would interpret this term.
Given the findings of the Supreme Court, I also think the occurrence(s) at Ls premises was 
an equally effective concurrent cause of the decision to introduce the March Regulations, as 
the occurrences beyond the limits of Ls premises. And the cases off the premises are not an 
excluded cause.
Referring back to the elements of the insured peril I set out earlier in my decision, in their 
correct causal sequence, and taking the points above into account, I am satisfied that:
An illness caused by COVID-19 occurred at Ls premises.
This occurrence was a proximate and concurrent cause of the Governments 
decision to introduce the March Regulations.
These March Regulations were introduced on the advice or with the approval of a 
person or persons who would be considered the Medical Officer of Health for the 
Public Authority.
These Regulations placed restrictions on Ls premises. And,
These restrictions caused an interruption or interference with Ls business that likely 
caused a loss.
As the elements of Ls disease clause have been met in the circumstances, I consider QICs 
decision to decline Ls claim for the losses sustained as a result of the Governments 
restrictions was not made correctly. And I so dont consider QIC dealt with Ls complaint 
fairly or reasonably.
Putting things right
I consider Ls complaint should be upheld. 
In order to put things right, QIC should:
Reconsider Ls claim on the basis that there was an occurrence on its premises that 
caused an interruption to its business from 20 March 2020 to 4 July 2020.
If, taking into account the remaining terms of the policy, any settlement is due to L 
QIC should pay this. Any excess that is payable should deducted from the total claim 
amount, before any policy limit is applied.
QIC should pay L interest on this settlement.
The interest payable on the settlement should be based on L having been deprived of four 
monthly interim payments that should have been made during the course of the claim. The first of these payments should have been paid on 20 May 2020 and should have 
covered Ls indemnified losses for the period 20 March 2020 to 19 April 2020 inclusive. 
Subsequent monthly payments should have been based on losses for the periods; 20 April 
2020 to 19 May 2020, 20 May 2020 to 19 June 2020, and 20 June 2020 to 4 July 2020. 
These payments should have been made on 20 June 2020, 20 July 2020, and 4 August 
2020 respectively.
QIC should pay L interest on the amount of each of these interim payments, for the period 
from the date of each of these interim payments should have been made to the date of 
settlement. This interest should be paid at a rate of 8% simple per annum.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. QIC Europe Ltd should put things right as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman