DRN-2900210
The complaint
Mr T complains Nationwide Building Society will not refund a disputed transaction. He says
the transaction was fraudulent, and that Nationwide should have carried out a chargeback.
Nationwide says the transaction was authorised and it had no basis for carrying out a
chargeback.  
What happened
Mr T was on holiday abroad. He used his Nationwide credit card to pay for some drinks in a
bar. He said he was buying two drinks which cost the equivalent of approximately £6. He
entered his card into the card reader and then entered his PIN.
Less than a week later, he arrived back into the UK and checked his credit card statement.
He noticed £656.77 had been debited from his account instead of the £6 he was expecting.
Mr T complained to Nationwide. He said he hadnt agreed to pay this amount, so it was
taken fraudulently from his account. He accepted he had entered his PIN and that he was in
possession of his card.
Nationwide said it could not raise a dispute under the Visa chargeback rules in the
circumstances. It told Mr T that as he had entered his PIN into the terminal, there was
nothing more it could do. It suggested Mr T try to sort out the issue directly with the
merchant.
When Nationwide did not uphold Mr Ts complaint, he came to this service. He told us he
had had a similar problem with a credit card he was using with another bank  who I will call
B. He thought we should be considering the transactions made from his account with B
when looking at his complaint against Nationwide.
But our investigator didnt think he could ask Nationwide to do anything more. He explained
Nationwide was not obliged to carry out a chargeback in these circumstances as the
transaction had been verified by Mr Ts PIN. He also suggested Mr T speak to the merchant
directly.
However, Mr T said he had been a victim of fraud and felt that Nationwide had done nothing
to protect him.
The matter was then passed to me to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties as my view was different to that of the 
investigator.  Mr T responded to say he accepted my findings.  Nationwide failed to respond 
by the required time  despite being granted an extension for late submissions.  Accordingly, 
my final decision remains the same as the provisional decision and appears below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The rules which are relevant to Mr Ts complaint are the Payment Services Regulations
2017 (PSRs). In short, they say Nationwide must refund any transactions which are not
authorised.
Mr T told Nationwide and this service that the transaction was fraudulent  but he does
accept it was made with his genuine card and PIN. However, this is not enough on its own
to prove authorisation. I need to decide whether Mr T also consented to the transaction.
Again, its bad news for Mr T because the relevant regulations say he is treated as having
consented to the payment when he entered his card and PIN into the terminal  even if he
disputes the amount.
On this basis, I can only conclude that he authorised the payment and this means
Nationwide is not obliged to refund it.  However, Ive also considered whether Nationwide 
could have done more to protect Mr Ts account.
The starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments and
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However,
in exceptional cases, I may ask whether the bank shouldve identified any unusual or out
of character transactions that could involve fraud or financial abuse. There is industry
guidance on this in the 2017 BSI Code of Practice on Protecting Customers from
Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse. Nationwide has signed up to the
Code, and it includes persuasive evidence of what banks can do to protect customers,
especially vulnerable customers.
Ive looked at the statements which Mr T has provided this service and I can see that this
disputed transaction was out of character for Mr T. It was a much larger payment than any
others I can see on the statement and I think that Nationwide, in line with good industry
practice, should have viewed this as suspicious at the time and taken steps to prevent the
risk of harm.
As I have said above, the starting position is that Nationwide should process the payment
which Mr T has authorised it to process. But it also has a duty to safeguard against the
risk of fraud or financial harm. So, when a customer makes a transaction which is
uncharacteristic, it is not unreasonable to expect to expect a banks fraud alert to respond
proportionately. In Mr Ts case, a phone call or text message to check that all was as it
should be, and he was happy to make such a payment.
I think if Nationwide had contacted Mr T, he would have been alerted to the
amount and on reflection its likely he would have declined to make the payment.
On this basis, Im satisfied that Nationwide ought reasonably to have intervened and
prevented this loss. In the circumstances, it should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr T
the sum of £656.77.  
Putting things right
Nationwide Building Society must refund £656.77 to Mr T.  My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Shazia Ahmed
Ombudsman