DRN-3630408
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Financial Administration Services Limited (Fidelity) disinvested one of 
the funds in her ISA without consent.
Mrs B is represented by her son, Mr B, who I will also refer to throughout this decision.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ill only summarise here. By 
way of background only, Mrs Bs late husband had an ISA with Fidelity. Mr B, as executor, 
asked for the funds to be transferred to Mrs Bs ISA in specie. There were issues that arose 
and this led to the funds that ought to have stayed invested in Fund A being disinvested. To 
correct this, Fidelity reinvested the funds into Fund A.
This decision deals with what happened after this. Mrs B complained about the funds being 
reinvested, and Mr B had proposed a solution as he says Fidelity reinvested the funds in 
Fund A without permission. After initially refusing to do so, Fidelity liquidated the holding in 
Fund A, and added cash to Mrs Bs account to make up the shortfall between the cash 
invested and what the units were sold for. This was in April 2020.
In November 2020, Mr B contacted Fidelity as he realised there was money in Mrs Bs ISA 
that wasnt invested. He said that Fidelity had unilaterally reversed the investment without 
consent which has caused loss. Fidelity said it acted on Mr Bs instructions when liquidating 
Mrs Bs units in Fund A. 
Our Investigator felt that Fidelity had acted without Mrs Bs authority. However, she 
concluded that had it expressly asked Mrs B, shed likely have consented as Fidelity had 
carried out Mr Bs proposed solution to the complaint. So, she didnt think Fidelity needed to 
do anything to put things right.
Both parties disagreed. Fidelity said that it had sent secure messages to Mrs B prior to 
carrying out the transaction, and that it then followed up with messages making it clear it had 
carried out the reversal of the investment, and had added funds to her account to correct the 
error. 
Mr B maintained that Mrs B wasnt aware that the reversal had been done and that Fidelity 
had acted without consent leading to financial loss.
As neither party had agreed, the complaint has been referred to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I first want to reassure Mrs B and Fidelity that Ive considered all the information submitted 
carefully. Mr B has provided detailed arguments about the whole experience with Fidelity but 
this decision only focuses on the issues around Fidelitys actions in liquidating Mrs Bs 
investment in Fund A within her ISA, which happened on 3 March 2020. I also need to make 
it clear that whilst Ive considered each detailed point, this decision focuses on the crux of 
the complaint. This reflects the informal nature of this service.
The crux of the issue here is that Fidelity liquidated Mrs Bs investment in Fund A without her 
consent, which Mr B says has led to financial loss.
Its fair to acknowledge that the transfer of Mrs Bs late husbands ISA investments to hers 
didnt go smoothly. It appears the funds ought to have stayed invested in Fund A, were 
disinvested and then reinvested. These actions arent the focus of this decision. This 
decision focuses on whether Fidelity did something wrong when liquidating the investment in 
Fund A on 3 April 2020. I agree with our Investigator that it did this without the proper 
consent. But Ive also concluded that Fidelity doesnt need to do anything to put this right. Ill 
explain why.
Mr B was executor of Mrs Bs husbands estate, so he communicated instructions and issues 
to Fidelity during the ISA transfer process. But he doesnt have authority over Mrs Bs ISA. 
And its clear from the communication on the file that Fidelity was aware of this. When 
Fidelity reinvested Mrs Bs funds into Fund A, Mr B complained. Ive listened to the phone 
calls in March 2020. It was Mr B that said they hadnt been informed the investment was 
going to happen and he wanted it reversed  there wasnt any conversation with Mrs B.
Throughout March 2020 Fidelity continued to say it hadnt made an error in reinvesting the 
funds. Mr B said, during the call on 11 March 2020, that he wanted Fidelity to reverse the 
investment. That is to liquidate it and restore the account to the original value that was 
invested. Im satisfied that this was an instruction Mr B was giving. But Mr B wasnt 
authorised to give instructions on Mrs Bs account. And, after Fidelity said it wouldnt carry 
out this instruction, it did so on 3 April 2020.
Fidelity said it sent Mrs B a secure message beforehand to say this was happening. And I 
dont dispute that, but sending a communication outlining an intention isnt the same as 
getting authorisation. So, I find that Fidelity liquidated Mrs Bs investment in Fund A without 
Mrs Bs permission.
As Fidelity has made an error, Id need to look at what position Mrs B would be in had that 
error not occurred. In this case, the error was that Fidelity carried out instructions that Mr B 
had outlined, and hadnt asked Mrs B to authorise the action. But even if it had, I dont think 
the situation would be different. Its clear to me that Mrs B wouldve consulted Mr B before 
making a decision. And what Fidelity did, when reversing the investment, was the exact 
resolution that Mr B had put forward. It wouldve been better if Fidelity asked for Mrs Bs 
authorisation before it went ahead, but I dont think that wouldve led to a different outcome 
here. And Fidelity ensured that Mrs B didnt lose out on the fall in valuation, it made up the 
difference between what was invested and the liquidated value. So, I dont find it needs to do 
anything to put things right.
I do note that Mr B has said that Fidelity didnt inform Mrs B that this had happened by post. 
As such, the funds were left in cash until November 2020, when Mr B noticed the issue. But I 
can see that Fidelity sent Mrs B secure messages, and this was the preferred method of 
contact. And through the pandemic, its not unreasonable that Fidelity couldnt send out 
postal communications, many businesses couldnt due to working from home. Im satisfied 
that Mrs B had access to her secure messages, and that Mr B who is representing her for 
the complaint also had access. So, I dont think its Fidelitys responsibility that those funds 
remained in cash for so long. I can see messages were sent, its Mrs Bs responsibility to 
check her account. There has been some dispute over when the secure messages were accessed, but I think, by sending these messages, Fidelity had done enough to notify Mrs B 
of the fact the disinvestment had taken place.
In summary, I do think that Fidelity acting upon Mr Bs instructions without getting 
authorisation from Mrs B was an error. But, I dont think Mrs B wouldve done anything 
differently, so I dont find Fidelity needs to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint but Financial Administration Services Limited doesnt need to do 
anything to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman