DRN-2823629
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Amtrust Europe Limited (Amtrust) has unfairly declined their 
legal expenses insurance claim.
Amtrust uses intermediaries to administer its legal expenses insurance, so any reference to 
the insurer within this decision should be read as including the acts or omissions of such 
intermediaries. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it.
Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their legal expenses insurance for assistance with a dispute 
against their neighbours for a breach of covenant, which restricted them from installing clear 
glass windows that overlooked Mr and Mrs Ms garden, as well as undertaking any works 
that could cause flooding.
Amtrust said it considered the claim under the contract disputes section of the policy but 
said it wasnt covered. Ive considered the policy terms and conditions under this section, 
which covers the cost of legal claims arising from disputes over the buying or selling of 
property. In this instance, I understand that Mr and Mrs M consider that the contract in 
question relates to the sale of part of their property that was sold with restrictive covenants. 
However, the contract disputes section of cover excludes claims relating to any disputes 
relating to buildings or land that is not your property. Mr and Mrs Ms legal claim relates to 
the land that was sold by them to their neighbours, and the various actions the neighbours 
taken on it after it had been sold to them. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M may enjoy the 
benefit of the restrictive covenants attaching to the land that was sold. But their legal dispute 
still concerns buildings and or land that is not their property, and for which they are not 
legally responsible. The neighbours are the legal owners in this instance, so I do not think 
the insurer has acted unfairly by declining cover under the contract disputes section as a 
result of this policy exclusion. 
Amtrust did recognise that the flooding issue could potentially amount to a claim for nuisance 
under the protection of property section of the policy, however, so it referred the claim to its 
panel solicitors (Firm L) for a legal assessment, which is what I would expect in these 
circumstances (given that Amtrust is not legally qualified to carry out such an assessment 
itself).
 
Firm L concluded that the issues raised by Mr and Mr M were either not covered under the 
policy or, if they were (such as the flooding), they did not enjoy reasonable prospects of 
success. The solicitors said that Mr and Mrs M hadnt sufficiently evidenced that the water 
damage sustained by their property was a direct result of their neighbours raising the land, 
so based on the information they had, they advised that the claims likelihood of succeeding 
was below 50%. As a result, Amtrust declined the claim, as it was a requirement of cover 
under the policy terms and conditions that the claim has reasonable prospects of success 
(i.e. above 51%).
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M may not agree with the Firm Ls legal assessment of their 
claim, and have also said that their own solicitor was baffled by it. But as it stands, they 
havent submitted any contradictory legal assessment from another solicitor to demonstrate 
that their claim does enjoy reasonable prospects of success in excess of 51%. I understand 
this may come at a cost, but its important to remember that the burden of proving the claim 
falls to Mr and Mrs M as the policyholder. It isnt for the insurer or the panel solicitor to build 
a case for them, and neither would it be reasonable to expect them to incur costs in this 
regard. 
Our service is not able to consider the actions of solicitors or the quality of legal advice they 
have provided. And generally, we consider it is fair for the insurer to rely on the advice of 
appropriately qualified legal professionals, unless there is anything to suggest that the legal 
advice provided was patently wrong, such that it was unreasonable for the insurer to rely on 
it. 
However, there is nothing in this case to suggest that the legal advice was patently wrong, 
so theres currently no basis on which to conclude that Amtrust has acted unreasonably by 
relying on it to decline the claim. I appreciate Mr and Mrs M have a different opinion, but their 
own views on this matter cannot reasonably outweigh the assessment of the solicitors; for 
example, even where a policyholder is himself legally qualified, he cannot act as an 
independent expert in his own cause. I also note that Amtrust and Firm L have said they are 
willing to reconsider the matter if Mr and Mrs M are able to provide further evidence from an 
independent expert. So I dont think theyve acted unfairly in their assessment of the claim.  
In summary, given that the panel solicitors advised that Mr and Mrs Ms claim does not hold 
reasonable prospects  and given that they have not submitted any contrary legal opinion to 
show otherwise  Im satisfied that Amtrust have fairly declined their claim in line with the 
policy terms and conditions. I therefore will not be asking them to take any further action.
I note that Mr and Mrs M have raised other concerns about their neighbours as they say that 
confidential post is being mistakenly delivered to them which they have not returned, 
including correspondence sent by the insurer. However, Ive seen no evidence to suggest 
that any pre-action correspondence sent by Amtrust or Firm L was mistakenly sent to their 
neighbours or incorrectly addressed. Indeed, all of the letters provided by Amtrust that Ive 
seen list the same address Mr and Mrs M have given us. So I cant see that the insurer has 
done anything wrong in this regard either.   
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs M, who understandably feel 
strongly about their complaint. But Im not persuaded that Amtrust have acted unreasonably 
or have done anything wrong in these circumstances, so I will not be directing them to take 
any further action. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 September 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman