DRN-3896520
The complaint
Ms H complains that Vanquis Bank Limited lent irresponsibly when it approved her credit 
card and later increased the credit limit.
What happened
Ms H applied for a credit card with Vanquis in September 2015. Vanquis approved the 
application and gave Ms H a credit card with a limit of £250. In February 2016 the credit limit 
was increased to £500 and in July 2016 the credit limit was increased to £1500.
Ms H complained that Vanquis had lent irresponsibly. Vanquis didnt agree. Ms H remained 
unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator said that Ms Hs complaint about the original agreement and the first credit 
limit increased had been referred to this service out of time and we werent able to consider 
it. Ms H disagreed but an ombudsman subsequently decided that the complaint had been 
referred out of time.
The investigator looked into Ms Hs complaint about the second credit limit increase and said 
he didnt think Vanquis had acted irresponsibly.
Ms H didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending 
including the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice on our website. Ive had 
this approach in mind when considering Ms Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator. I dont think Vanquis 
lent irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Vanquis needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice, this means that it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure Ms H could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of things, such as how much was being lent, 
the repayment amount, Ms Hs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Vanquis has provided details of the checks it carried out before it approved the credit limit 
increase in July 2016. It says these checks show that it was reasonable to lend to MS H.
I can see from the checks that Vanquis used the information it already held about Ms Hs 
income, which was stated as £18,700 per year, or around £1,325 net per month. Vanquis 
carried out credit checks. These showed that Ms H had around £2,956 unsecured lending 
and no county court judgments or recent defaults.
Vanquis also looked at how Ms H had managed the credit card. The account history showed 
that Ms H had exceeded the credit limit once but that this had been quickly remedied and 
that the account was otherwise well managed, with Ms H regularly paying more than her 
minimum monthly payment.
Based on the information it gathered, Vanquis thought it was reasonable to lend to Ms H.
Ive thought about whether the checks carried out by Vanquis were reasonable and 
proportionate. Because the credit limit was being increased by a significant amount in 
proportion to Ms Hs income, I think Vanquis shouldve carried out further checks to verify Ms 
Hs income and expenditure.
Ive looked at Ms Hs bank statements for the three months prior to the credit limit increase 
to see what reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown.
The bank statements show that Ms Hs monthly income was around £1925 including 
benefits. Her monthly expenditure was around £1156. Based on what Ive seen from the 
statements, Ms H appeared to have sufficient disposable monthly income to sustainably 
afford the repayments on the increased credit limit. Had Vanquis looked at the bank 
statements, I think it wouldve concluded that the credit limit increase was affordable.
Therefore, I dont think Vanquis acted unfairly by increasing the credit limit and I dont think 
the lending was irresponsible.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 February 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman