DRN-4449438
The complaint
Mr S complains that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) declined to indemnify him following an
accident he was involved in, under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S was involved in a car accident in 2015. He made a claim to his insurer, and it dealt with
the matter. Whilst his car was being repaired, Mr S was directed to a hire car company that
supplied him with a hire car. He was involved in a collision whilst driving the hire car. He
says he reported this to the hire company. His understanding is that it was being dealt with
under the insurance it had arranged.
Mr S received a court judgement in 2021. This required him to pay £1,974.33 for the losses
caused by the collision it said hed caused when driving the hire car. Mr S paid this amount.
But he didnt think this was fair. He says this shouldve been covered by Zurich as it was his
insurer for the period he was driving the hire car.
In its final complaint response Zurich says Mr S didnt take out insurance cover with the hire
car company. It says this meant it wasnt providing him with insurance for the hire car. Zurich
says there was no record Mr S reported the accident. And it says he didnt respond to
attempts it made to contact him about the claim thatd been made.
Zurich apologised for the confusion it caused when it initially referred Mr S to his insurer. It
says it should have dealt with the complaint. It offered £200 compensation for the confusion
caused.
Mr S didnt think hed been treated fairly and referred the matter to our service. Our
investigator upheld his complaint. He says itd been shown that Zurich was responsible for
insuring the hire car. Mr Ss insurer, from the original accident, agreed to refund the costs
hed paid to the court. He says this is because Mr S had been unfairly pushed from one
insurer to another, without a resolution. This matter was dealt with under a separate
complaint.
Our investigator thought Zurich should pay Mr S compensation for the detriment caused
when he had to find the money to pay the court judgement. This is in addition to the issues,
hed experienced when trying to pursue Zurich as the insurer responsible for indemnifying
him for the hire car. He says Zurich should pay £1,000 in total, which includes the £200 it
previously offered. This is as well as refunding £248.30, which is an amount Mr S paid to the
hire car company. Our investigator says this isnt something Mr S shouldve paid.
Mr S accepted our investigators findings. Zurich didnt. It maintains that Mr S had no
insurance cover in place with it, to indemnify him when driving his hire car.
As an agreement couldnt be reached the matter has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in October 2023 explaining that I was intending to not uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so my intention is to not uphold this complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but
Ill explain why I think my decision is fair.
There has been some confusion around what business acted as Mr Ss insurer for the rental
car he used in 2015. Mr S raised a separate complaint against the insurer who indemnified
him for his initial accident. I can see this insurer agreed to pay him £1,974.33 on an ex-gratia
basis to cover the court judgement. But the insurer didnt accept it was responsible for
providing cover for Mr Ss hire car or for indemnifying him for his accident when driving it.
Zurich maintains that it didnt enter into an agreement to insure Mr S for driving the rental
car. It says it dealt with insurance for this rental company at the time. But it didnt provide
cover for every rental car that was hired out. It maintains that theres no record to show it
provided cover for Mr S to drive the rental car.
To understand what cover Mr S had in place Ive read the rental agreement he signed when
he was provided with the hire car. This indicates Mr S chose to include damage waiver and
excess protection cover. Beneath this section of the agreement is a box with the title,
RENTER INSURANCE INFORMATION. Next to, INSURER the name of Mr Ss insurer is
written by hand. This is the insurance company Mr S used to cover his own car.
Zurich says that this shows Mr S had selected his existing insurer to provide cover. It says
Mr S is responsible for ensuring he has appropriate cover in place for whatever vehicle he is
driving. It comments that hire cars can be driven on personal insurance policies by the same
extensions that cover courtesy cars, assuming permission is given by the owner.
Ive not seen evidence that Zurich acted as Mr Ss insurer for the period he was driving the
hire car. The rental agreement indicates he intended his existing motor insurance provider to
indemnify him. It may be that Mr S didnt understand what this meant. But I cant see that
Zurich agreed or was asked to indemnify Mr S whilst he was driving the hire car. I think it
makes a fair point that personal insurance policies that can provide cover in these
circumstances. It also makes a fair point that Mr S is responsible for arranging suitable cover
for the vehicle hes driving.
Mr S has provided evidence showing he made several payments to the rental car company.
This occurred over several days after the rental period began. Although I have considered
this evidence, its not been shown that these payments related to insurance cover. Given the
amounts involved, this seems unlikely. Based on the information available to me I cant see
that these payments are Zurichs responsibility. So, I dont agree with our investigator that it
should make a payment to Mr S for these amounts.
I can understand the court judgement came as a shock to Mr S. Im sorry he was distressed
and had to replace his family car with a smaller one in order to pay these costs. I think its
reasonable that Zurich offered £200 compensation for the confusion around who should be
dealing with the complaint. But ultimately its not been shown that Mr S had an insurance
policy with Zurich. I dont think its been shown that he asked it to provide cover, or that
cover was expected to be provided by the rental company. The evidence shows Mr S
informed the rental company hed be using an existing policy to provide cover.
I understand cover wasnt provided under Mr Ss existing policy. But this isnt somethingZurich is responsible for.
Zurich should pay the £200 compensation it offered to Mr S, if it hasnt already done so. But
having considered all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I dont think Mr S
had insurance cover with Zurich. So, I dont think it treated him unfairly and I cant
reasonably ask it to do anymore.
I said I was intending to not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
Neither party responded with any further comments or information for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further submissions or provided further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman