DRN-3362634
The complaint
Mrs E complains that a car acquired with finance from Moneybarn No 1 Limited wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs E was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn. At the point of supply the car was around 5 years old and had 
covered around 96,500 miles.
In August 2021 the car broke down. An inspection concluded that the timing belt had failed.
Mrs E complained to Moneybarn. She said the timing belt was meant to last 10 years or 
150,000 miles and that it had failed prematurely.
Moneybarn arranged for an independent inspection. The inspector found that the car was 
fitted with an upper and lower timing belt and that the lower belt, a wet belt, had failed. The 
inspector concluded that the deterioration to the wet belt was due to wear and tear and 
wouldnt have been present at the point of supply.
Based on the findings of the report, Moneybarn rejected Mrs Es complaint.
Mrs E remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She said that because the car hadnt been serviced 
for 27 months prior to it being supplied to Mrs E, it was likely that this had led to the 
premature failure of the timing belt. The investigator said the that car wasnt reasonably 
durable, and therefore wasnt of satisfactory quality. She recommended that Moneybarn 
allow Mrs E to reject the car.
Moneybarn didnt respond to the view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account factors such as 
the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general condition and other things including fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
second hand car  such as that supplied to Mrs E - to have a degree of wear and tear and to 
require repairs and maintenance more often than a brand new car. So, in order to uphold 
this complaint I would need to be satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply, and that it didnt fail as a result of a fault which was due to general wear and 
tear. 
Where a fault occurs in the first 6 months which makes the car of unsatisfactory quality, 
theres a presumption that the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply. After 6 
months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to show that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
In this case, the timing belt failed 6 months and 12 days after the point of supply. The car 
had covered around 5,450 miles since the point of supply. I need to have regard to the 
burden of proof as explained above.  But I also need to consider whether the car was 
durable, because of the timing belt failed prematurely, this might mean that there was a fault 
with the timing belt at the point of supply.
Mrs E has said that the timing belt shouldnt need to be replaced until the car has covered 
150,000 miles. The independent inspection report verifies this  it says that the replacement 
schedule for the timing belt is 150,000 miles / 10 years. At the point when the timing belt 
failed, the car had covered around 102,000 miles and was around 6 years old. So, I think its 
fair to say that the timing belt failed sooner than a reasonable person might expect.
The independent inspection stated that the cars service history should be checked to see 
whether this contributed to the fault. The inspector didnt check the service history because it 
wasnt made available to him.
Ive reviewed the service history. The manufacturers recommendation is that the car should 
be serviced every 12 months or 12,500 miles, which ever comes first. I can see that the car 
was serviced in line with this between May 2017 and October 2018, but after this, the car 
wasnt serviced until February 2021, and during this time it covered 41,000 miles.
This is a significant length of time and mileage to elapse without a car being serviced. Taking 
into account the comments in the independent inspection report, and having regard to the 
fact that the timing belt failed earlier than  a reasonable person would expect, I think its 
more likely that the failure to service the car prior to the point of supply led to the fault with 
the timing belt. Im satisfied that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply 
because it wasnt sufficiently durable. 
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen, I think that repairs will cost more than the value of the car. So I 
dont think it would be fair to ask Moneybarn to carry out repairs. Instead I think Moneybarn 
should allow Mrs E to reject the car.
Mrs E hasnt been able to use the car since the timing belt failed. In August 2021. I dont 
think she should be expected to make payment for a car she cant use, so Im asking 
Moneybarn  to refund all payments made since August 2021. Prior to then, Mrs E was able 
to use the car, so I wont be asking Moneybarn to refund anything prior to this date.
Its clear that Mrs E has ben caused distress and inconvenience as a result of being supplied 
with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. I think its fair to ask Moneybarn to pay 
compensation for this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited must:
End the agreement with nothing further to pay
Arrange for the car to be collected at no cost to Mrs ERefund all payments made by Mrs E since 14 August 2021 plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement
Pay compensation of £100 for distress and inconvenience
Remove any adverse information from Mrs Es credit file in relation to the agreement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman