DRN-1349588
 
The complaint
Ms S has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
In bringing her complaint Ms S has been represented by her father. But, for ease, I will refer 
to his comments as being those of Ms S.
What happened
Ms S said that in November 2017, her car was parked and unattended when another car 
crashed into it. The other driver drove off without leaving their details and Ms S reported the 
incident to the police. She didnt claim for the damage.
Ms S tried to renew her policy with Admiral online but was unable to do so. So, she called 
Admiral in April 2019 to renew. Admiral told Ms S the online renewal was blocked because 
she hadnt disclosed the November 2017 incident. Admiral said they were happy to renew 
the policy but there would be an increased premium to take into account the incident from 
2017. The quote Ms S was given online was lower than what Admiral asked her to pay.
Ms S went ahead and renewed but she took out a 10 month policy. Ms S complained. She 
said: Admiral classed her as a high risk driver and refused her the lower quote online; the 
incident in 2017 wasnt her fault; and Admiral suggested she might have a problem if she 
tried to take out a policy with another insurer, so she felt obliged to stay with Admiral.
Admiral didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. They said they had calculated her renewal premium 
after correctly taking into account the 2017 incident. Admiral also said because Ms S wanted 
to reduce her premium they offered her the 10 month policy which was cheaper. It was 
Ms Ss decision to accept that policy.
Ms S brought her complaint to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. He felt that 
Admiral had dealt with Ms S fairly. As Ms S didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint 
has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I appreciate this will be disappointing for 
Ms S, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Admiral have provided us with a recording of the call Ms S had with them in April 2019 when 
she renewed her policy. I dont agree that Admiral in anyway told her or pressured her into 
renewing with them or that they suggested she might have problems going to another 
insurer. And it was in response to Ms Ss request to reduce her premium that a discussion 
was had about how that could be achieved, which resulted in Ms S accepting the 10 month policy. I think if Ms S wasnt happy with what she was offered she didnt have to renew her 
policy with Admiral and she could have gone elsewhere.
In relation to the increase in premium, it might help if I explain that we're not the industry 
regulator. That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge for their 
policies. And our service generally takes the view that, providing they treat people fairly - that 
is they treat customers with similar circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to 
charge what they feel they need to in order to cover a risk.
When calculating premiums, insurers take into consideration a very large number of risk 
factors. In other words, they assess the level of risk each policyholder poses and the 
likelihood of them making a claim in the future by looking at many different factors. It might 
help if I give just a few examples of the many factors insurers consider: the type of car 
insured; where the car is kept; the policyholder's occupation; the policyholder's age; the type 
of licence the policyholder has; the length of time the car has been owned; the number of 
years the policyholder has been driving; and past driving incidents the policyholder has been 
involved in. But its not down to me to tell insurers what factors they should take into account 
when assessing risk, nor how to go about those assessments. Different insurers will have 
different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially a matter of 
commercial judgement, balancing risk against the need to compete with other policies on 
offer, and not something we would usually think its fair to interfere with. 
And one of the reasons why different insurers charge different premiums for the same risk is 
because insurers have different views on risk. So, different insurers give differing levels of 
importance to different factors. For example, when setting premiums Admiral will take into 
consideration an accident that wasnt caused by their policy holder, like the 2017 incident 
involving Ms Ss car. But other insurers might not take such an incident into consideration 
and wont charge more. Insurers base their views on risks using statistics and other data. As 
insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think theres anything wrong with 
Admiral considering relevant factors, such as the 2017 incident, and charging more because 
of it, regardless that the cause of the claim wasn't Ms Ss fault.
But if Ms S wasnt happy with the premium charged, she didnt have to take out the policy. 
So I think Admiral dealt with her reasonably. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2020.
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman