DRN-3148680
The complaint
Mr U complains about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited  he believes he is due 
compensation in relation to the State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme (SERPS). 
What happened
Mr U contacted Prudential as a colleague of his, working from the same employer, received 
a letter from Prudential in 2019 saying that they were due compensation because hed been 
advised to transfer out of his employers pension scheme. Mr U felt that he should be due 
similar compensation from Prudential as he believed hed received the same advice.
Prudential didnt uphold his complaint, it told Mr U that it only had a record of one policy in 
Mr Us name which was taken out in 1986 and it had not advised him to take this policy out. 
Unhappy with Prudentials response, Mr U referred his complaint to this Service. An 
Investigator looked at his complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld. He was satisfied 
Mr U only had one policy with Prudential and it hadnt advised him to take this out.
Mr U remained unhappy and asked for a final decision  he believes he had an additional 
policy with Prudential that was taken out in the 1990s which Prudential has failed to locate. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think that this complaint should be upheld. I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr U, so Ill explain why.
Prudential has provided information which shows that Mr U held one pension policy which 
was taken out in 1986. This was a M&G Executive Pension Plan. It was the only plan Mr U 
held with M&G Investments which was acquired by Prudential in 1999. In 2019, this pension 
was transferred away from Prudential as per his request.
Prudential has also confirmed that the only contributions this pension had received were 
made by Mr U  and no other payments such as SERPS contributions had been made into 
the plan. Mr U also hasnt provided any evidence to substantiate his claims.
I should say that there would be no reason for Prudential to withhold information from this 
Service, and it has provided screen shots of the searches it has completed. Im satisfied this 
shows that Mr U only ever held one policy with Prudential which he transferred to another 
provider in 2019. Mr U says he has evidence that he has two plans, but he hasnt provided 
this evidence to our Service so Im unable to conclude that he did in fact have two separate 
plans.
I understand that Mr U feels strongly that he has a case for Prudential to answer here  this 
is largely based on the letter hes provided relating to his colleague. But this letter says that 
Mr Us colleague is being compensated because Prudential advised him to transfer out of an 
employers scheme and as a consequence of this, he has a lower pension. But there is no 
evidence to demonstrate that Prudential gave Mr U any advice to transfer out of an 
employers scheme. As above, Prudential inherited a plan that Mr U took out with M&G 
Investments in 1986 - it didnt advise him to take this plan out so there cannot be any 
compensation due from Prudential in respect of this plan. 
Ultimately, the letter Mr U has provided does not show that Mr U has been affected in the 
same way as his colleague  there are no details of the plan that was taken out or what 
employer scheme it relates to.
Overall, Ive not seen any evidence to show that Prudential has done anything wrong here, 
so Im unable to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman