DRN-3091314
The complaint
Mr B complains that Fiducia Wealth Management Limited (Fiducia) gave him unsuitable 
advice to transfer deferred benefits from a defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension 
scheme to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). Mr B also complains about the time 
taken to complete the transfer process. He believes Fiducia caused delays which have 
resulted in a financial loss, and he wants to be compensated for this.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr B received a transfer value quotation from his DB scheme. The transfer 
value provided for his deferred benefits was £207,154.50 and this was guaranteed if Mr B 
transferred before 23 July 2018.
Mr B approached Fiducia for advice on his pensions and retirement needs. Having met on   
9 May 2018, Fiducia completed a fact-find and gathered information about Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives. Fiducia arranged for signed Letters of Authority and 
information requests to be sent to Mr Bs three pension providers on 18 May 2018. All 
responses were received by 12 June 2018.
On 3 July 2018 Fiducia requested an independent transfer value analysis (TVAS) from a 
third-party provider. This was received on 13 July 2018.
Fiducia produced a suitability report on 20 July 2018 and recommended that Mr B to transfer 
benefits from one of his DB schemes to a SIPP. 
Mr B met with Fiducia on 24 July 2018 to discuss the contents of the suitability report and his 
circumstances further. He confirmed that he wanted to go ahead with the transfer, but 
Fiducia advised that before this could happen Mr Bs case would need to be reviewed by its 
DB committee and compliance officer. 
On 27 July 2018 Fiducia emailed Mr B confirming that following a meeting with its DB 
transfer committee and compliance officer, it remained of the view that he should transfer. 
Fiducia also clarified the basis on which its recommendation was being made.
In response to its email, Mr B called Fiducia on 30 July 2018 and arrangements were made 
for him to meet with it on the same day. During the meeting Mr B confirmed he understood 
the risks involved in transferring and recognised the importance of being more disciplined 
with expenditure going forward. Mr B repeated that he wished to go ahead with the transfer 
and so the relevant application forms were completed. 
On 31 July 2018 Fiducia confirmed with Mr B which SIPP provider it recommended he 
transfer to. Outstanding identification documents were provided by Mr B on 7 August 2018 
and together with application forms were forwarded by Fiducia to the SIPP provider the 
following day.
Despite confirming on 16 August 2018 that it had set up a SIPP account for Mr B and sent 
scheme discharge paperwork, on 30 August 2018 the SIPP provider told Fiducia that it 
couldnt accept Mr Bs transfer as it was coming from a DB scheme. Following this Fiducia 
complained to the SIPP provider about delays caused and £250 compensation was later 
offered to Mr B.
On 31 August 2018 Fiducia confirmed the new SIPP provider it recommended that Mr B 
transfer to. Application forms were signed by Mr B and forwarded to the new provider on 4 
September 2018.
On 21 September 2018 Mr Bs DB scheme confirmed that it was processing his transfer 
request. Mr B provided additional paperwork it required on 29 September 2018.
On 17 October 2018 Mr Bs DB scheme administrators called Fiducia confirming that Mr Bs 
revised transfer value was £245,296.69. Fiducia shared this with Mr B, however, the scheme 
administrators called Fiducia shortly after this saying the revised transfer value was incorrect 
and that the correct transfer value was £201,278.96. Fiducia passed this information onto Mr 
B and on 19 October 2018 Mr B confirmed with Fiducia that he still wished to transfer. He 
also asked Fiducia to raise a complaint on his behalf for the transfer value error.
The transfer of Mr Bs DB pension benefits was completed on 28 October 2018. The transfer 
value Mr B secured at this date was £201,278.96.
Due to further issues arising with the DB scheme administrators, Fiducia wrote to the 
scheme on 7 January 2019 to complain about service and delays. On 19 March the scheme 
responded and offered Fiducia £900 for time it had spent chasing it for updates and £500 to 
Mr B for the transfer value error. Mr B accepted £1,400 compensation from the DB scheme 
on 3 April 2019. This included compensation Fiducia had been awarded but chosen to pass 
onto him. 
In July 2020 Mr B complained to Fiducia about the unsuitable advice he felt hed received. 
He added that the transfer had taken too long, and that delays caused by Fiducia had led to 
him missing the deadline for the April 2018 guaranteed transfer value.
Fiducia didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. It said its advice was suitable given Mr Bs 
circumstances at the time and that he wouldnt have been able to achieve his objectives if he 
hadnt transferred. As Mr Bs existing funds would shortly be exhausted and he was 
unemployed, he was in a position where he wouldnt have been able to meet his living 
expenses or been able to repay his debts prior to age 65. Had Mr B not transferred, it 
seemed unlikely that his retirement wouldve been comfortable. Although Mr B confirmed he 
was willing to sacrifice future guaranteed income so he could meet his short-term needs, 
Fiducia had advised Mr B to reduce his income withdrawals and retain his other DB scheme 
so he could preserve some secure future income.
Regarding transfer delays, Fiducia said:
Despite having previously used the SIPP provider it first recommended, it hadnt 
been aware that it didnt accept transfers from DB schemes
While the issue with the first SIPP provider delayed the transfer going through, it had 
no material bearing on the transfer value Mr B ultimately secured. Mr Bs transfer 
value had only been guaranteed until 23 July 2018 and the transfer paperwork hadnt 
been completed until after this
Fiducias suitability report had warned that an updated transfer value might need to 
be requested if Mr B was keen to go ahead with the transfer
It accepted it had taken some time to produce its suitability report but explained this 
was very detailed and necessarily so. Waiting for the TVAS to be completed and having time to analyse this also took time, as did investigating the circumstances 
surrounding withdrawals made by Mr B from his first SIPP  
It acknowledged that Mr Bs transfer value reduced by a total of £5,875.54 when his 
original transfer value deadline wasnt met. In recognition of its contribution to some 
delays, it offered Mr B £2,404.54 compensation. This reflected the difference 
between his original transfer value and the one he secured, while taking into account 
compensation already received and Fiducias gesture of goodwill to reduce its 
transfer fees by £2,071 
Unhappy with Fiducias response, Mr B referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the matter and didnt feel that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. In 
summary she said:
Fiducia gave suitable advice based on Mr Bs circumstances and objectives at the 
time. Mr B was unemployed, and although Fiducia had advised him to return to work, 
Mr B felt he was unlikely to gain further employment and therefore wanted to explore 
options with his pensions
As Mr Bs only source of income was his soon to be depleted existing SIPP, and he 
had debts totalling £39,000 which needed to be repaid, Fiducias recommendation 
that he transfer out of one of his DB schemes and remain in his other DB scheme 
was appropriate. Doing so enabled him to meet his immediate needs while also 
retaining some future guaranteed income
The transfer was financially viable, considering Mr Bs balanced attitude to risk and 
low capacity for loss. Fiducia had clearly set out the risks associated with transferring 
and given Mr Bs background, including having transferred a DB scheme two years 
prior, she felt Mr B wouldve had a reasonable understanding of the associated risks
Regarding Mr Bs transfer value and delays, our investigator felt Fiducias offer of £2,404.54 
was fair. In summary she said:
Despite some delays being caused by Fiducia, she didnt think that the transfer 
couldve been completed in time for Mr B to secure his original transfer value quote 
before the 23 July 2018 deadline
The process of giving transfer advice required careful consideration and given that 
Fiducia was considering two of Mr Bs DB schemes and withdrawals made from an 
existing SIPP, this was always going to take time
Fiducia never guaranteed it would transfer Mr Bs DB benefits before the 23 July 
2018 deadline and Mr B hadnt made Fiducia aware that this formed part of his 
objectives at the outset
Mr B accepted our investigators findings that Fiducia had provided him with suitable transfer 
advice. However, he disagreed that Fiducias offer in respect of delays was fair. Mr B said he 
still felt Fiducia should compensate him for the difference between his original transfer value 
and the one he ultimately secured, without any deductions. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. But before I 
do, I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both parties, Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say:
Whether delays caused by Fiducia resulted in Mr B failing to secure the guaranteed 
transfer value quoted by his DB scheme on 23 April 2018 
Whether Mr B has suffered the financial loss he claims
Whether Fiducia has appropriately compensated Mr B for any delays it caused
In his original complaint to this service Mr Bs concerns were that Fiducia had given him 
unsuitable advice and caused delays resulting in a financial loss. As outlined above, one of 
our investigators considered the complaint. She found that Fiducias advice was suitable 
and thought its offer in respect of delays was fair. 
Mr B accepted the investigators finding that Fiducias advice was suitable and having 
carefully considered the matter myself, I agree for broadly the same reasons. Given the 
absence of any dispute regarding this complaint point, it seems to me that theres little value 
in recapping the investigators conclusions here. Instead, I've focused on Mr Bs remaining 
complaint point, namely, his concern that delays caused by Fiducia resulted in him missing 
the deadline to secure the April 2018 guaranteed transfer value.
On 23 April 2018 Mr Bs DB scheme produced a quotation guaranteeing that if Mr B 
transferred benefits before 23 July 2018, his transfer value would be £207,154. Mr Bs DB 
scheme went on to say:
If we receive the Transfer Agreement and financial advice confirmation after the guarantee 
expiry date of 23 July 2018, we will work out the transfer value again and it may be higher or 
lower than the value [previously] quoted () We will issue a new quotation in all cases if 
these documents are received more than one month after 23 July 2018.
So, Im satisfied the position was made clear to Mr B at the outset - if he transferred any time 
after 23 July 2018 hed miss out on the April 2018 guaranteed transfer value and a new 
transfer value would have to be calculated. 
Having sought Fiducias advice and later accepted its recommendation to transfer, Mr Bs 
DB benefits were transferred to a SIPP on 28 October 2018. As the July guaranteed transfer 
value deadline had expired, Mr Bs transfer value was recalculated and £201,278.96 was 
transferred. This was £5,875.04 less than the transfer value previously quoted. 
Mr B says Fiducia caused significant delays in the advice and transfer process and believes 
that, but for these delays, he wouldve secured the April 2018 transfer value. He would like 
Fiducia to compensate him with the £5,875.04 difference between the transfer value quoted 
in April and October 2018 transfer values he secured. 
Fiducias position is that although it caused some delays, these had no material bearing on 
Mr B securing the April 2018 guaranteed transfer value. 
Taking into account the above, Ive looked carefully at the advice and transfer process as it 
occurred to identify any delays Fiducia was responsible for and assess their impact. Ive also 
considered these delays bearing in mind Fiducias obligations as Mr Bs financial adviser. 
From what Ive seen, the first delay arose from the time Fiducia took to request the TVAS 
from its third-party provider. The request was made on 3 July 2018, which was 15 working 
days after Fiducia received all the information it needed from Mr Bs three pension providers. Fiducia accepts that this request shouldve been made sooner, and I agree. Given the need 
to review incoming information before sending it to the TVAS provider, I think its reasonable 
to have expected Fiducia to have made the TVAS request within, at most, 10 working days 
of receiving the required information. Had this happened the request wouldve been made 5 
working days earlier than it was, so on 26 June 2018. 
Fiducia received the TVAS report on 13 July 2018, 9 days after its request. Given that 
Fiducia ought to have requested the TVAS sooner and, in my view on 26 June 2018, it 
follows that Fiducia wouldve received the TVAS report earlier too. Specifically, on 9 July 
2018, which was 9 working days from when I believe Fiducia shouldve requested the TVAS.
Fiducia has confirmed that its normal turnaround time for issuing a suitability report is within 
5 working days of it having received all the relevant information. In Mr Bs case Fiducia met 
this service standard and issued the report to Mr B on 20 July 2018. As the last piece of 
information required (the TVAS report) should  but for delays  have been received by 
Fiducia on 9 July 2018, I think its fair to expect that in line with its usual 5 day turnaround 
Fiducia couldve issued the report to Mr B on 16 July 2018.
Four days after the suitability report was issued, Mr B and his wife met with Fiducia to 
discuss its contents. Fiducia also asked Mr B to explain the high level of income withdrawals 
hed made from his existing SIPP and expressed concern about his spending. Following this 
meeting, Fiducias DB committee and compliance officer met to review the advice to transfer. 
The advice was deemed suitable; however, before the transfer went ahead it was felt that 
certain terms needed to be agreed with Mr B for his own protection and to ensure the 
recommendation was sustainable. These terms were emailed to Mr B on 27 July 2018 and 
discussed during a telephone call on 30 July 2018. A further discussion took place in person 
later that day, during which Mr B confirmed he still wished to transfer. These events 
happened within a relatively short period of time (6 working days), however it was during this 
period that the April 2018 guaranteed transfer deadline passed. 
Ive considered what Mr Bs position wouldve been were it not for Fiducias delays but 
having done so I havent seen anything to suggest that he wouldve been able to secure the 
April 2018 guaranteed transfer value. I say this because assuming that Fiducia had issued 
the suitability report when I think it shouldve (on 16 July 2018 instead of 20 July 2018) and 
that the series of events set out above had also been completed 4 days earlier than they 
were (on 24 July 2018), Mr B wouldve still missed the guaranteed transfer value deadline.
I appreciate that Mr B feels strongly that Fiducia had enough time to complete the transfer 
before the guaranteed transfer value deadline. However, Im unable to agree. Despite Mr B 
having accepted Fiducias advice, several matters were still outstanding before his transfer 
could be finalised. For example, although SIPP application forms had been completed, these 
couldnt be forwarded to the SIPP provider until outstanding identification documents were 
provided by Mr B. And even then, the SIPP still had to be set up by the provider before any 
transfer could be accepted. So, given the additional steps which needed to be taken before 
the transfer could be completed, I cant see that the process couldve been finalised before 
the guaranteed transfer value deadline expired.
Its clear now that securing the April 2018 guaranteed transfer value was important to Mr B. 
However, theres nothing to indicate that he shared this priority with Fiducia during the 
advice or transfer process, such that it couldve been mindful of the deadline together with its 
responsibilities as Mr Bs adviser. 
Theres nothing to suggest that Fiducia provided Mr B with any assurances that he would 
secure the April 2018 transfer value if it recommended that he transfer. And from what Ive 
seen, Fiducias only comments regarding the guaranteed transfer value were to remind Mr B of the deadline and to advise, We may need to request an updated transfer value if you are 
keen to transfer (). We would discuss this revised figure with you, prior to moving onto the 
next steps. In line with this, Fiducia contacted Mr B when his transfer value was 
recalculated and lower than the one originally quoted. I think Fiducia acted fairly in this 
respect and in doing so allowed Mr B to make an informed decision about whether he still 
wished to proceed with the transfer. Mr B confirmed that he did.
Although I appreciate Mr Bs disappointment that he didnt secure the April 2018 guaranteed 
transfer value, Im mindful of Fiducias role as Mr Bs adviser during the advice and transfer 
process.  It had an overarching duty to act in Mr Bs best interests. And given the substantial 
benefits and guarantees Mr B would be giving up by transferring, Fiducias role wasnt to 
simply justify and make the transfer happen. Its significant and overriding responsibility was 
to assess Mr Bs objectives against his overall circumstances. It needed to determine what 
course of action would help him meet his objectives and, above all, place him in the best 
possible position in retirement. The recommendation also needed to be robust and clearly 
demonstrate through evidence that it was suitable.
I do consider providing advice and effecting a transfer in a timely fashion to be part of 
Fiducias obligation to act in Mr Bs best interests. However, I dont agree that this meant that 
ensuring Mr B secured the April 2018 guaranteed transfer value shouldve been the driving 
force behind the transfer process. 
Transferring a DB scheme requires careful consideration. In Mr Bs case, I think this was 
reflected in the amount of information gathering carried out and the number of discussions 
which took place between Fiducia and Mr B during the advice process. This enabled Fiducia 
to fully appreciate Mr Bs circumstances, interrogate his objectives, establish his needs and 
future intentions, and ensure the basis upon which its recommendation was being made was 
entirely understood by Mr B. Understandably, this took time. But as Ive set out above, 
Fiducia did, on occasion, take more time than it shouldve. Ill address how Fiducia has 
sought to reflect this in the compensation it has offered to Mr B later. 
After the guaranteed transfer value deadline expired, further delays and errors unfortunately 
arose with Mr Bs transfer. 
The SIPP Fiducia first recommended to Mr B was one it had successfully arranged transfers 
to before. Because of this Fiducia wrongly assumed that thered be no issue with Mr Bs 
transfer. Although Fiducia highlighted via a covering letter to the SIPP provider that Mr Bs 
transfer originated from a DB scheme, the SIPP provider seemingly didnt pick this up. It 
wasnt until 15 working days after Mr Bs SIPP applications were sent that the SIPP provider 
confirmed that transfers from DB schemes werent accepted. This oversight appears to have 
been compounded when the SIPP provider also set up a SIPP for Mr B in error and sent 
discharge paperwork to this effect. 
Notwithstanding the SIPP providers errors, for which I understand Mr B has been offered 
compensation, it remains that Fiducia should have checked before submitting Mr Bs 
application that the SIPP provider it recommended accepted DB transfers. Had it done so I 
dont think the additional delays Mr B experienced at that stage would have occurred.
The day after Fiducia was made aware of the error with its SIPP recommendation, it took 
swift corrective action and recommended another SIPP provider. Fiducia arranged for the 
relevant application forms to be signed by Mr B and sent to the new provider three days 
later. Prior to the transfer going ahead, Mr Bs DB scheme administrator provided Fiducia 
with a revised transfer value (£245,296.69) for Mr B. This information was passed onto to Mr 
B, but later confirmed to be incorrect. Fiducia raised a complaint on Mr Bs behalf regarding 
this and delays, for which Mr B has received compensation. Overall, its clear to me that Fiducia caused some delays in the advice and transfer process 
here. However, I havent seen anything which leads me to conclude that Fiducia should 
compensate Mr B in the way hes seeking. There was never any certainty that Mr B would 
transfer, or that if he did that the transfer would be completed by 23 July 2018  the 
guaranteed transfer deadline. And bearing in mind the involvement of third parties in the 
transfer and the delays and errors they appear to have caused, I cant fairly say that Fiducia 
is solely to blame for how long it took for the transfer to be completed.
I should say that I do sympathise with Mr B. The level by which his transfer value decreased 
before the transfer could be completed wasnt insignificant. And if his hope had been to 
secure the higher transfer value first quoted to him, then he will understandably have been 
upset and no doubt very disappointed when this didnt happen. However, notwithstanding 
delays caused by Fiducia, I havent seen anything which persuades me that Mr B would 
have secured the higher April 2018 transfer value. So, I cant fairly say that Fiducia must pay 
Mr B the difference between the April 2018 transfer value and the transfer value he 
ultimately secured. 
As set out in its original quote and because the transfer wasnt finalised until late October 
2018, Mr Bs DB scheme recalculated his transfer value, and this was the amount 
transferred to his new SIPP. Im satisfied that Mr B received the transfer value he was 
entitled to, so I wont be directing Fiducia to compensate Mr B in the way he seeks.
While I havent found in Mr Bs favour, in that I dont think Fiducia should be bound to pay 
him the difference between the quoted and actual transfer values, I should say that I do think 
its entirely reasonable for him to have expected Fiducia to act with more efficiency and 
attention in the circumstances. And its unfortunate that in this case that didnt happen at 
every stage of the advice and transfer process. Im genuinely sorry to hear of the impact that 
this has had on Mr B. 
As I touched on above, complaints were raised by Fiducia on Mr Bs behalf against other 
parties involved in the transfer process. The first SIPP provider Fiducia advised Mr B to 
transfer to offered Mr B £250 compensation for delays caused. Mr B turned down this offer. 
The Trustee of Mr Bs DB scheme offered Mr B £500 for the incorrect transfer value its 
scheme administrator provided and offered Fiducia £900 to pay for its additional time costs 
while dealing with the complaint. Mr B accepted this offer. Although mindful of the 
compensation Mr B has been offered or paid by other parties for what happened, Ive 
focussed on Fiducias actions and considered whether fair compensation has been offered in 
respect of this. 
In recognition of delays it directly caused or contributed to, Fiducia has apologised and taken 
the following steps to put matters right:
It decided to pass onto Mr B the £900 awarded to it by the SIPP provider for its time 
costs while dealing with Mr Bs complaint 
As a gesture of goodwill, it waived its 1% implementation fee which reduced the level 
of fees Mr B paid for transferring by £2,071 
It has offered £2,404.54 as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of delays it caused
Fiducia has explained that the £2,404.54 offer has been reached bearing in mind the 
difference between Mr Bs April 2018 guaranteed transfer value and the transfer value he 
received, as well as compensation he has already received. Bearing in mind that irrespective 
of Fiducias delays I dont find that Mr B wouldve secured the April 2018 guaranteed transfer 
value, I consider that Fiducias latest offer of compensation, coupled with the fee reduction 
and the £900 compensation Fiducia passed onto Mr B, more than fairly reflects the trouble and upset caused to Mr B here. It recognises the disappointment and frustration Mr B will 
undoubtedly have experienced during the advice and transfer process. And I think it reflects 
the level of responsibility Fiducia acknowledges it had to Mr B as his financial adviser. As 
Fiducia has said, We always endeavour to provide our clients with a high level of service 
but in this instance, we have not fully met those standards and offer our apologies.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr B is hoping for. But for the reasons outlined above, I 
dont think there are any grounds here for me to reasonably conclude that Fiducia should 
increase its offer.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award. I leave it to Mr B 
to decide whether he would now like to accept Fiducia Wealth Management Limiteds offer of 
£2,404.54.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Chillel Bailey
Ombudsman