DRN-3072660
The complaint
Mr C complains that HC Wealth Management Ltd (HC) gave him incorrect advice which
caused him to incur unnecessary tax charges on his pension contributions. Mr C also feels
that the management of his investments in this pension by HC Wealth Management Ltd was
poor and he didnt receive the service he was paying for.
What happened
Mr C started receiving advice from HC around 2011/12. Mr C was a director and majority
shareholder of a company. He received ongoing advice from HC until around 2019.
HC provided ongoing advice to Mr C including the investment of his pension contributions
into his personal pension. Between the 2011/12 and 2015/16 tax years Mr C utilised his
maximum money purchase annual allowance (MPAA). Meaning he contributed the
maximum allowed to his personal pension. These contributions were in the form of employer
contributions.
Between the 2016/17 and 2018/19 tax years Mr C continued to receive employer
contributions to his pension for £40,000 a year, which he believed was his maximum MPAA.
In those tax years though, the amount that he was allowed to pay into a personal pension
was affected by a tapered annual allowance (TAA). The dividend payments that Mr C had
received in those years meant that his threshold income exceeded the limits set by the
government which triggered the TAA. Which meant that Mr C was subject to a TAA of
£10,000 in each of those three years instead of the £40,000 that hed previously had. Overall
he exceeded his pension contribution limit by £90,000 in that time.
Mr C was facing a tax charge on those overpayments. He complained to HC that it had failed
to advise him of the impact of his overall income level on his MPAA. And Mr C later
complained about HCs management of his investments, specifically complaining about poor
performance and a lack of ongoing service.
HC responded to the initial complaint made by accepting that it should have been aware of
the dividend payments that Mr C had taken in those years. So it should have informed him of
the limits on his MPAA. HC considered that Mr Cs loss was dependant on how he could
have taken the £90,000 benefit from his employer instead. Which it assumed would have
been by receiving it in dividends instead of a pension contribution. HC said that the tax that
Mr C would have paid instead on the £90,000 taken as dividends would have been £34,920
(at a rate of 38.1%). And calculated that the employer would have been liable for £17,400 in
corporation tax on that dividend payment. Which they said meant that the total tax burden
would have instead been £51,600.
HC offered to pay Mr C £15,810 (the difference in the tax he is now likely to incur compared
with what he would most likely have incurred if the mistake hadnt happened). And HC
offered to pay Mr C £1,350 in respect of its 1.5% adviser fee on an investment of £90,000.
This meant that HC were offering to pay Mr C £17,160 in total compensation.
HC responded separately to Mr Cs later complaint regarding its management of his funds
and ongoing service. HC didnt uphold these parts of Mr Cs complaint. It said that Mr Cs
fund had achieved investment returns above the market average after accounting for its fees
for their services. It explained that it re-visited their understanding of Mr Cs attitude to risk at
reviews and had no reason to believe that it had changed during the period of their advice.
HC said that it performed regular reviews and responded to all correspondence with Mr C in
line with the client agreement they had. And said that the fees it charged covered that
service as agreed.
Mr C didnt agree with the way that HC offered to put things right so brought his complaint to 
our service. The case was considered by an investigator, but as no agreement could be 
reached on a fair outcome, the case was referred for an ombudsman for a decision. I 
considered all of the evidence and sent both parties my provisional decision to let them know 
my thoughts and give them the chance to respond.
In my provisional decision I said:
There are different elements to this complaint. The initial complaint made to HC appears to
have been a result of Mr Cs overpayment of his pension contributions. Which I believe is the
main crux of the complaint. But when Mr Cs complaint was brought to us, its clear that he is
also unsatisfied with the overall service he was paying for in annual fees. So Ill set out my
thoughts on these issues as follows:
Unsuitable investment advice
Mr C is concerned that HC failed to provide suitable investment advice in the time that it was
employed to provide ongoing advice. And Mr C complained that HC gave no consideration to
the fact that his attitude to risk may have changed over time.
Ive seen that HC assessed Mr Cs attitude to risk in 2011 when it provided initial advice. And
that advice explained to Mr C how hed been assessed and what that would mean. And Mr C
hasnt said that that assessment was incorrect. So I think its more likely than not that Mr C
understood and agreed with that initial assessment.
HC implemented a long term investment strategy intended to maximise investment returns
over time. HC didnt recommend a discretionary fund manager and explained why not. Mr C
had accepted HCs recommendation, so I dont think that Mr C was ever given the
expectation that his investments would be managed in the way that they might if he was
paying for a discretionary fund manager service.
HC have shown that it conducted annual and 6 monthly reviews of Mr Cs investments. As
well as providing investment advice in response to pension contributions as they were made.
The annual reviews re-stated Mr Cs attitude to risk. And whilst HC didnt conduct an attitude
to risk questionnaire or re-assessment each year, Ive no reason to think that Mr Cs attitude
to risk would have changed dramatically. Or, that HC would have thought that it had. And at
each annual review Mr C would have had the opportunity to discuss any relevant change of
circumstances. I understand Mr Cs concern that HC failed to identify the importance of the
dividend payments that Mr C was drawing. And the impact of that mistake is dealt with
below. But I dont think that mistake implies that all aspects of HCs advice was flawed.
Based on the evidence that weve been shown, I think that HC conducted sufficient and
appropriate reviews of Mr Cs pension investments to satisfy the terms of its service
agreement with him. The recommendations that it made are in line with the attitude to risk
agreed with Mr C. And I dont think that Mr Cs capacity for loss changed in a way that made
this investment strategy unsuitable either. So I dont uphold this element of Mr Cs complaint.Pension contributions in excess of MPAA
HCs investigation into this complaint led it to conclude that it was liable for this mistake.
Mr C agrees with this, so this isnt an issue in dispute. So I wont go into further detail about
the actual mistakes made. The issue at dispute here is how HC should compensate Mr C for
this matter. So my decision will concentrate on what I think is the fairest and most
reasonable way to put things right.
In considering how to put things right, Im trying to put Mr C as close as possible into the
position hed have been but for the mistake that HC made. Which means considering the
difference between what did happen and what ought to have happened.
Its a relatively straightforward matter to determine the impact on Mr C from what actually
happened. His immediate tax burden from the overpayment is known. And his future
income-tax burden on crystallising his pension can be estimated. Ive looked at the way that
HC estimated it and I think that the approach that it took was right. HC assumed that Mr C
would be a higher rate tax payer when he takes his pension. And as this assumption is in
Mr Cs favour in determining his loss, I think it is a fair position to take. So HCs treatment of
the future tax, assuming 25% would be available tax free with 40% tax being charged on the
remainder, is in line with what Id suggest.
It is less straightforward to determine what may have happened instead. I cant know how
Mr C would have alternatively taken the £90,000 worth of employer benefits if hed known
that he couldnt take it as pension contributions. But I have to decide what I think would have
been the most likely situation in order to decide on a fair way to put Mr C in the position hed
have been.
Mr Cs employer had budgeted for a benefit package for Mr C that included £120,000
towards his pension over the three years in question. But should only have paid £30,000 of
that into his pension. I think its likely theyd have sought to give benefits in a different way
with the remaining £90,000. But there would have been implications in having to give Mr C
these benefits in a different way. Which I need to consider. I think that its fair to assume that
the cost to Mr Cs employer of providing these benefits should be the same as it incurred in
paying the pension contributions. These were the budgeted costs for Mr Cs employee
benefits. I dont think that its reasonable to assume that his employer would incur extra
expense to pay the benefit in a different way.
Mr Cs employer would have had the option to pay the benefit as salary instead. In that case
though they would have needed to pay employer National Insurance (NI) contributions of
13.8% on those benefits. Which I think would have had the effect of reducing the net amount
that Mr C would have been entitled to receive in place of his pension contribution. Similarly,
if Mr Cs employer had been able to pay the sum as a dividend, it would likely have to
consider the impact of corporation tax on that £90,000 as it would be paid from post-tax
profits.
HC have started with an assumption that Mr C would most likely have taken this surplus
employee benefit as dividends. They suggested that this would have been the most
favourable in terms of tax efficiency for Mr C. Which I suspect is probably correct. But I will,
of course, consider any representation that Mr C wishes to make on this point. Ive also
noted that Mr C was already using dividends as a means to receive the bulk of his earnings
from his employer over this period. So I think that, on balance, this was the most likely way
that Mr C would have received the additional employee benefit.
Based on this assumption I think it would be fair to assume that Mr Cs employer would havepaid the maximum that the TAA allowed to Mr Cs pension - £10,000 each year. I then think 
Mr Cs employer would have adjusted the remaining benefit payable to Mr C to allow for the 
burden on them of corporation tax. So the £90,000 notional benefit allowance would be 
reduced by the corporation tax benefit. For example, if the corporation tax was £17,400 as 
HC calculated it to be, the amount that Mr C would likely have received in dividends from his
employer would have been £72,600. In which case, Mr C would not have paid dividend tax
on £90,000 as HC suggested, but this reduced figure. His dividend tax liability should be
calculated on the reduced figure to calculate the overall notional tax burden. And Mr Cs loss
would be the difference in the actual tax burden and his notional tax burden.
I recognise that the ways that Mr C can use the benefit in his pension are different to the way
that he would have had immediate use of any dividend payment. But Mr Cs intention for this
money was for it to be locked away for future use. So I dont think it would be reasonable for
me to consider additional redress for loss of use on that sum. Ive also considered the
implication of any difference in investment returns. But this redress calculation makes
immediate allowance for a tax burden on his pension that wont impact Mr C until he
crystallises his pension. So he will benefit from higher investment returns on that sum until
that happens, than he would have had in the alternative scenario. So I dont think he suffers
any resulting additional loss from that.
The response to my provisional decision
Mr C accepted my provisional decision and offered no further evidence or comment for me 
to consider. HC responded and said that they didnt agree with everything Id said in my 
provisional decision. But didnt elaborate on which areas. HC offered no further evidence 
and prepared a loss calculation in line with the redress calculation I suggested in my 
provisional decision. They said that they would make Mr C an offer of compensation along 
those lines but reserved their rights to raise further points if Mr C didnt accept.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having fully considered the matter again, I havent changed my mind. I havent been 
provided with any additional evidence or arguments to consider. I uphold Mr Cs complaint 
for the same reasons that I explained in my provisional decision above. 
I set out in my provisional decision exactly how I thought redress should be calculated. My 
proposal differed from the redress calculation that HC or Mr C thought was fair. Neither Mr C 
or HC have any comments regarding my proposed redress. Which, for the same reasons 
that I explained above, I think is a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mr C for any loss 
he suffered. 
My decision is to direct HC to put things right in the following way. To clarify this process for 
HC, if Mr C accepts this final decision then this decision is legally binding on them. If Mr C 
doesnt accept it, the decision isnt binding and our process is concluded. 
Putting things right
HC should calculate the redress due to Mr C as follows:
Current net gain = £90,000 - (overpayment charge (£40,500)) - (crystallisation event tax1)
Notional net gain = notional dividend payment2 - dividend tax on that sum1 crystallisation tax calculated assuming 25% of the £90,000 can be taken tax free and
remainder at higher rate tax
2 notional dividend payment is calculated by deducting corporation tax from the £90,000 sum
Net loss = (notional net gain)  (current net gain)
HC should pay Mr C the net loss figure as compensation.
I think that HCs offer to refund £1,350 of fees was fair. It is a figure that reflects their fee
structure for initial investment management. And recognises the fact that they would never
have been called upon to invest that £90,000 sum in Mr Cs personal pension had the
mistake not occurred.
Ive considered the impact on Mr C from this mistake. I dont doubt that he will have been 
caused a considerable amount of stress in finding out about such a large and unexpected 
tax burden. This would be a concern for most people and will have had an impact in meeting 
the cost in the short term. I agree with our investigator that HC should pay Mr C a further 
£500 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience that their mistake has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint against HC Wealth Management Limited. 
I direct them to compensate Mr C by paying him:
His net loss (calculated as set out above)
£1,350 as a refund of fees charges
£500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman