DRN-3693091
The complaint
Ms T complained that the amount she received on transferring her pension from Scottish 
Equitable Plc (Aegon) to a SIPP was approximately £930 less than she was expecting.
What happened
Ms T had a Group Stakeholder Pension Plan (GSHP) with Aegon which had been set up by 
her employer. In December 2020, she gave instructions to a SIPP provider to transfer the 
funds from the GSHP to a SIPP she had set up with the provider. A transfer request was 
sent by the SIPP provider to Aegon via the ORIGO system on 17 December 2020.
The transfer request sent to Aegon contained an indicative value, based upon the current 
value of the funds in the GSHP. As Aegon had to transfer cash to the SIPP provider, rather 
than the existing investments, Aegon had to sell all the existing investments in the GSHP 
before it could complete the transfer request. It began the sale process on 18 December and 
the sale was completed on the following working day, 21 December, using the unit price on 
that date. The cash from the sale was then sent across to the SIPP provider, arriving on 22 
December 2020.
Ms T had meanwhile logged into the SIPP providers online portal on 18 December 2020, 
where the value of her SIPP transfer was shown as based on unit price on that date.
When she checked the value shown after the transfer completed on 22 December 2020, she 
saw that it was some £930 lower than the value shown on 18 December. So, she 
complained to Aegon about the drop in fund value.
Aegon replied to Ms T on 31 December 2020, rejecting her complaint and explaining that the 
earlier figures shown were indicative, and that the sale was completed correctly using the 
actual unit price on 21 December 2020. It was also explained to her that the number of units 
held at each stage was the same, and the lower value reflected a fall in the market price of 
each unit between 17 and 21 December 2020.
Ms T was not satisfied with this explanation and wrote to Aegon again on 2 Jan 21 to ask for 
further clarification and evidence that the sale of units had indeed taken place on 
21 December 2020, and not on 18 December 2020 as earlier indicated on her account on 
Aegons portal.
Aegon responded on 19 March 2021 to explain that although her account had indeed shown 
that its administration team had processed the sale on Aegons system, the sale had indeed 
actually taken place on 21 December 2020. It further explained that its online portal always 
shows financial information at the current time and continues to do so until it is automatically 
updated with later information. It also confirmed the number of units sold and the unit price 
they were sold at on 21 December 2020 and sent a gift hamper to Ms T in respect of her 
disappointment at the value achieved being lower than her expectation.
Ms T remained unhappy with this explanation and referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator reviewed all the information provided and reached the conclusion that the 
Aegon had acted correctly and that Ms Ts complaint should not be upheld. Ms T disagreed, 
so its been passed to me to take a fresh look at all the evidence and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and having also considered the view of our investigator, I have reached the 
same conclusion and will not be upholding Ms Ts complaint.
I can appreciate that this will be disappointing for her, so let me explain how I have reached 
my decision.
Firstly, I must explain that the aim of this process is to establish whether Aegon acted fairly 
and reasonably in the way it treated Ms T and if it didnt, establish whether she suffered a 
financial loss as a result.
Moving on to the specifics of this case, Aegon have stated consistently that the unit price Ms 
T received when it sold her funds was based upon the price that applied at the close of 
business on Monday 21 December 2020. The terms of Ms Ts policy with it states that:
Instructions approved before 1pm will be treated as having been approved not later than the
working day following the next working day.
Receiving the instruction via Origo on 17 December 2020 from the SIPP provider, meant that 
it was correct for Aegon to take the unit price on 21 December 2020 when selling the fund. 
Unit prices can of course go up and down on a daily basis. It was unfortunate for Ms T that 
the price had dropped between the time she asked the SIPP provider to request the transfer 
and the sale of her units. I think its important to point out that this is also common industry 
practice when selling this type of unit based collective investment. This is because the value 
of each unit is calculated only at the close of business each working day, rather than through 
the day as is the case for individual shares, for example. This does introduce an element of 
risk into the buying and selling of unit based investments, but that is how the market for this 
type of investment works.
Overall, I think that Aegon acted fairly and reasonably in in the way it processed Ms Ts 
transfer request and I shant be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Bill Catchpole
Ombudsman