DRN-3135054
The complaint
Mr H complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) prevented him 
from accessing his pension account online, which meant he couldnt monitor his funds and 
carry out fund switches resulting in a loss of several thousand pounds.
What happened
The investigator set out a detailed timeline of the events and circumstances leading up to 
this complaint which isnt disputed  so I wont repeat all of this detail here. In summary:
Mr H contacted L&G in July 2020 when he noticed he couldnt access his online pension 
account and make changes. L&G replied apologising for the lack of access and provided Mr 
H with an email address that he could send any investment instructions to.
Around a week later and after Mr H still couldnt access his account online, he raised a 
complaint with L&G.
On 7 August 2020 L&G replied and issued its final response. In summary it said that Mr Hs 
account required some manual re-work  a result of an historical issue it had identified  
which was taking longer to complete. It apologised for this and offered Mr H £75 for the 
inconvenienced caused. But it said it wasnt responsible for any missed investment 
opportunity because it had provided Mr H with an alternative means of placing any 
investment instructions via email. It said if Mr H wanted to send it any investment instructions 
he could continue to do so and these would be applied once the work was finished. 
On 11 August 2020, in response to Mr Hs dissatisfaction with its findings, L&G explained 
that it had revoked online access because the split of the funds would continue to change 
whilst the remedial work was carried out. It said it wanted to avoid Mr H seeing incorrect 
information. It said that completion for the works was scheduled for 20 August 2020.
Mr H brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service on 16 August 2020.
One of investigators looked at all of this and they didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary they said that Mr H was provided with other ways he could complete 
any find switches he wanted to make  either by phone or via the email service L&G had 
provided him with. Because of this they said they couldnt recommend compensation for 
investment loss. But they said the £75 offered by L&G for the inconvenience caused by the 
lack of online access was fair in the circumstances.
Mr H disagrees. Hes provided detailed submissions in response, which I have read in full. 
But in summary Mr H says:
he had no online access for six weeks
he didnt use the email service to carry out his fund switch because it provided him with 
an incorrect valuation
the calls he made to the telephone helpline werent answered
in any event L&G said any instructions wouldnt be applied until after the work was 
completed
in line with what hed done in the past, he makes regular changes to his funds to reflect 
the prevailing market conditions, which he was prevented from carrying out resulting in a 
loss of around £15,000. He says that he wanted to switch funds at the end of July 2020 
to reflect the position hed previously held at the beginning of July 2020. 
The complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, I dont uphold his 
complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Its clear that Mr H was prevented from managing his pension account using L&Gs online 
service for a period of time. And while I accept this was likely little comfort for Mr H at the 
time, L&G was at least able to provide a specific reason for this - it was carrying out remedial 
work to put right an historic error it had identified in relation to the charges applied to the 
plan. L&G says online access was withdrawn to prevent Mr H from seeing incorrect account 
information while the work was carried out. This work would ultimately be to Mr Hs 
advantage, but the matter took around six weeks to resolve.
During this entire period Mr H couldnt access his pension online and I accept he was 
inconvenienced as a result. The extent to which Mr H was inconvenienced by this and / or 
has suffered a loss as a result, is what I need to determine here.
I can see that when Mr H first contacted L&G in July 2020 to say that he couldnt access his 
pension online, it replied the next day offering an alternative channel Mr H could use to give 
any investment instructions  a direct email service to its investments team. L&G also had a 
telephone helpline, which Mr H was aware of because L&Gs records show hed used the 
helpline before. So I think L&G provided alternative means by which Mr H could give any 
investment instructions he wanted to make at this time - it appears Mr H wasnt entirely 
prevented from managing his pension.
But Mr H says that despite making attempts to call the helpline his calls went unanswered. 
L&G says that, while its phone service was reduced due to the Covid pandemic, it was 
providing a service  it was only in the first week of the pandemic at the end of March / early 
April 2020 that there was no phone service.
I dont know how many times Mr H attempted to call the helpline. And while I accept this 
channel would have been more difficult to use given the operational challenges around this 
time, I dont think it would have been impossible for Mr H to have used it.
But if I accept this route wasnt viable, what about the email service L&G offered? Mr H says 
that he was prevented from using this route to make his fund switches because hed been provided with an incorrect plan valuation and funds were missing. He also says that in any 
event he was told any instructions couldnt be applied until after the remedial work was 
finished.
But Im not persuaded that Mr H was prevented from using the email service to make the 
switch he says he wanted to make. I say this because L&G first provided Mr H with the email 
address of the investment team he could send investment instructions to on 21 July 2020. 
Mr H wasnt provided with what appears to have been an incorrect email valuation by L&G 
until 5 August 2020. And the point Mr H makes about being told any instruction would be 
applied after the remedial work was finished was contained in L&Gs final response letter of 
7 August 2020. 
So if as Mr H has told us in his detailed submissions that it was at the end of July 2020 that 
he wanted to switch his funds back to the position he held at the start of July 2020, I think he 
could have given that instruction to L&G via the email service he had been provided with. Mr 
H has shown that he had records of which funds his pension was invested in  hes also 
shown that he knew fund price information was readily available on L&Gs website. So 
despite not having online access to his pension, I think Mr H had the necessary information 
and alternative means to give his investment instruction to L&G at the end of July if thats 
what he intended to do at the time  I dont think he was prevented from managing his 
pension at this time.
That said, even if I accept what Mr H says that he couldnt use the helpline or the email 
service L&G offered as alternatives to the online service, there is no evidence from the time 
of an investment instruction from Mr H or anything else to show what investment decisions 
he was prevented from making. And this is the crux of the matter here. For me to uphold Mr 
Hs complaint that hes suffered an investment loss as a result of L&Gs actions, I need to 
see evidence from the time to support what he says. 
But Ive not seen any. None of the correspondence between Mr H and L&G from around the 
time in question makes specific reference to the switches Mr H says he wanted to make. 
And its not enough for Mr H to now say what he wanted to do or say that he was losing 
thousands of pounds a day and missed investment opportunities.
I can see that Mr H had made fund switches to his plan in the past (he also made changes 
shortly after his online access was restored) - so I think its reasonable to say that he was 
taking an active role in managing his pension plan. Because of this I accept its possible that 
Mr H wanted to make the fund switches he describes at the time. But without anything from 
the time to show or suggest what Mr H wanted to do, I cant say it is more likely than not this 
is what Mr H wanted to do and he was prevented by L&G from doing. 
So for this reason I find L&G is not responsible for the investment loss Mr H describes. 
Overall, while I think Mr H was inconvenienced during the period he couldnt access his 
pension online, for the reasons Ive given above Im not persuaded Mr H has lost out to the 
extent he describes. L&G has offered Mr H £75 for the inconvenience caused by the outage 
of the online service. And taking everything into account, including that this is broadly in line 
with what I would award, I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive detailed above, Ive decided to not uphold this complaint. I think the 
offer of £75 from Legal and General Assurance Society Limited for the inconvenience 
caused by this matter is fair in all the circumstances.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman