DRN-2483185
The complaint
Miss W complains that Leeds Building Society (LBS) cant locate an old savings account 
which had been opened for her benefit. 
What happened
A savings account was opened for Miss W in 1976. Her mother looked after the account for 
her benefit. After her mother passed away, she was given the passbook by her father. Later, 
when she moved address there was a local LBS so she took the passbook into the branch, 
provided identification and gave information about her late mother so the status of the 
account could be determined.
After investigation, LBS said that the account had been closed. Miss W did not accept this 
and complained to them. She said that she had the passbook and receipts and that her 
mother wouldnt have kept them if the account was closed.
LBS said they could not locate any records in her mothers name, date of birth or address. 
They also said that the account number that Miss W provided them with was a Leeds & 
Holbeck account which would have been compatible with their previous systems and that the 
account would not have transferred to their new system if it was closed. LBS also pointed 
out that in 2018 they needed to make changes to be General Data Protection Regulations 
(GDPR) compliant. This resulted in customer data prior to 2002 being removed from the 
system for old accounts. 
Miss W brought the complaint to our service as she didnt agree with the outcome. One of 
our investigators reviewed the complaint but did not uphold it as they thought LBS had 
exhausted all ways of trying to find the account but were not able to.
Miss W asked for an Ombudsman to make a final decision on the case as she believes the 
account was either closed incorrectly or should be showing as inactive.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly, I have arrived at the same conclusions as the investigator  and for very much the 
same reasons. While Miss W is in the possession of a passbook and receipts, this is not 
proof that the account is still open/inactive. It simply shows that at a point in time the account 
had funds in it and that a passbook was used.
I have thought about what I would expect LBS to do in these circumstances and if they have 
treated Miss W fairly in their investigation and I think they have. They took the available 
information from her and conducted a search of their systems but no accounts have been 
found. They used Miss Ws details and her late mothers as well as previous addresses. If 
the account was still open but inactive, I would have expected to have seen a record of it 
because it would have migrated over to the new system. But like the investigator explained, 
the screen shots dont show a result. This suggests that on balance the account was more 
than likely closed.
I have noted that Miss W has said the account could have been closed in error but I dont 
think this is likely. In closing an account LBS would have needed an account holder to sign 
for this. 
I do understand Miss Ws strength of feeling but considering everything Ive seen I dont 
think LBS have treated her unfairly. Im satisfied LBS have looked and there isnt a record of 
an account for her. So it follows that I am not going to require them to do anymore. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman