DRN-4065922
The complaint
Mr G complains about the handling of his current account by Barclays Bank UK PLC.
What happened
Mr Gs account was opened many years ago. In December 2022, Barclays closed the 
account and passed it to a debt collection firm (W) as it claimed Mr G owed just over £200. 
Mr G complained that hed instructed Barclays to close the account in around 2012 and 
2015, before the outstanding balance had accrued. He said he wouldnt have owed any 
money had his instructions been followed and that his credit rating had suffered as a result. 
Barclays said it held no evidence that Mr G had asked for the account to be closed. It felt it 
was entitled to request repayment of the money owed and apply negative markers to Mr Gs 
credit file following non-payment of the debt.
Unhappy with Barclays actions, Mr G brought a complaint to this service. Our investigator 
looked into the complaint but didnt recommend that it should be upheld. Briefly, they found 
that Barclays had, on balance, acted fairly in pursuing Mr G for the outstanding amount.
Mr G didnt agree with the investigators findings. Among other things, he said Barclays 
hadnt done enough to contact him about the debt or resulting county court judgment (CCJ) it 
had sought. Mr G felt Barclays had colluded with the UK government and its security 
agencies to create what he described as a fictional debt. 
Because the investigator couldnt resolve matters informally, the complaint was passed to 
me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr G wants answers to certain specific questions hes raised. Although Ive 
considered them, Im not required to respond to them all in setting out this decision and Ive 
not attempted to do so. Nor have I made direct findings on the actions of certain third-parties 
Mr G mentions in his complaint, as theyre businesses or organisations that are separate to 
Barclays. Instead, Ive focussed on addressing the key issues that go to the heart of Mr Gs 
complaint about Barclays. 
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
I realise how upset Mr G is with the actions of Barclays and that he feels hes being 
harassed by it. I recognise that Mr G believes Barclays has somehow been working with 
third-party organisations to pursue and harass him. But Ive not seen any evidence to 
support what hes said about that. 
Regarding the actions of Barclays towards Mr G more specifically, I also cant see from the 
evidence provided that Mr G requested that the account be closed when he claims. Had he 
instructed Barclays accordingly, I would have expected to see some record of his request in 
the information Barclays has provided. Alternatively, I think it would be reasonable to expect 
some supporting evidence of such a request from Mr G. Nones been provided as far as I 
can tell. He says he was expecting a cheque from Barclays in 2015/2016, when his account 
was in credit by around £2,700. Its reasonable to expect that Mr G would have chased this 
payment at the time when it wasnt forthcoming and that there would be some evidence to 
show that was the case. But Ive not seen that evidence. 
In terms of the evidence I do have, I can see that Barclays wrote to Mr G in November 2022 
to tell him it was terminating the account due to the outstanding balance, following the 
collection of payments and direct debits from the account over previous years. It clearly 
stated that the account balance should be repaid immediately and that if it wasnt, the debt 
may be transferred to a debt collector. It also confirmed it intended to register details of the 
account with credit reference agencies which could seriously affect his ability to obtain credit.
Mr G says the letter was sent to a previous address and that he didnt receive it. That may 
be the case, although I dont find that Barclays did anything wrong in sending the letter to the 
address that it did. Thats because Im satisfied it attempted to send the letter to Mr Gs last 
known address. I cant see that Barclays was made aware of any change in Mr Gs address 
by Mr G. And, as Mr G said himself to this service in July 2023 I consider I do not need to 
provide any contact details to a bank which I do not want to do business [with] anymore 
This suggests to me that Mr G accepts he didnt make Barclays aware of his change of 
address prior to the letter being sent.  
Given that I believe Barclays was entitled to pursue Mr G for the amount in question, and 
that this wasnt repaid, I consider that it was reasonable for Barclays to report the default to 
the credit reference agencies as it did. 
So, taking everything into account and while recognising Mr Gs strength of feeling about the 
matter, I believe Barclays has acted fairly overall.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman