DRN-3565093
The complaint
Mrs and Mr G and upset that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) stopped a number 
of attempted payments from completing successfully, and with the service they received 
from NatWest surrounding this matter.
What happened
Mrs and Mr G attempted to make a payment for £685 on 15 June 2021. However, this 
payment was flagged by NatWests fraud prevention systems, and this led to two further 
payments  for £110 and £16.50  being stopped over the next two days. On 25 July 2021, a 
payment of £12 was stopped by NatWests fraud prevention systems, and on 9 September 
2021 a payment of £300 was also stopped by NatWest for the same reasons. 
Mrs and Mr G werent happy that this kept happening, and they also werent happy with the 
efforts NatWest had made to contact them following the payments being stopped. So, they 
raised a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mrs and Mr Gs complaint. They provided further information to Mrs and 
Mr G about their fraud prevention systems and why those systems are employed and 
confirmed that they had attempted to contact Mrs and Mr G about the stopped payments. 
NatWest also confirmed that they didnt feel theyd acted unfairly towards Mrs and Mr G in 
regard to the actions theyd taken, and that as such they didnt uphold their complaint.
Mrs and Mr G werent satisfied with NatWests response, so they referred their complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel that 
NatWest had acted unfairly or unreasonably in how theyd managed the situation, and so 
they also didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mrs and Mr G remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mrs and Mr G to have discovered that 
several payments they attempted during 2021 were prevented from competing by NatWests 
fraud detection systems, especially given that on some occasions Mrs and Mr G received 
confirmation that the payment had been successful from NatWest.
However, financial institutions such as NatWest have obligations to have transactional 
monitoring systems in place that are designed to detect instances of potential fraud, and also 
to take steps to stop any attempted transactions that are flagged by these systems until it 
can be confirmed with the account holder than the transactions are legitimate. And I note 
that NatWests account terms include that they can prevent the completion of transactions if 
they suspect that those transactions might be fraudulent or illegitimate so as to protect their 
customers from potentially being scammed. 
Unfortunately, the necessary implementation of these systems can result in a degree of 
unavoidable inconvenience for customers whose attempted transactions are flagged and 
stopped by those systems. But given that such inconvenience is considered as being 
unfortunately necessary, this service wouldnt generally consider censuring a business when 
transactions have been stopped by fraud prevention systems as was the case here.
That being said, its also incumbent on a financial institution such as NatWest to attempt to 
contact any customer whose attempted transactions have been stopped by their fraud 
prevention systems so as allow that customer to confirm the legitimacy of those transactions 
as quickly as possible.
Having reviewed the information provided to this service by NatWest, Im satisfied that they 
did that here. I say this because NatWest have been able to confirm that after each of the 
three instances that their fraud prevention systems flagged and stopped transactions that 
they did attempt to contact Mrs and Mr G via either text message or voice call to a mobile 
telephone number, and that on each occasion they were able to either successfully leave a 
voicemail message or speak with Mrs and Mr G to advise them of what had happened.
For instance, on 25 July 2021, NatWest initially sent a text message which asked Mrs and 
Mr G to contact them, and also telephoned the same number a few minutes later, 
whereupon they successfully spoke with Mrs and Mr G and explained what had happened. 
Furthermore, on 15 June 2021, NatWest sent an initial text message and then made a series 
of follow up telephone calls. And when the first telephone calls werent answered and the 
option to leave a voicemail message wasnt made available to them (possibly because the 
attempted call couldnt be connected), NatWest only stopped making telephone calls to Mrs 
and Mr G when they were eventually able to leave a voicemail message confirming what had 
already been communicated to Mrs and Mr G in the sent text message which requested Mrs 
and Mr G to contact them.
Mrs and Mr G have questioned, if NatWests attempts to contact them by phone were initially 
unsuccessful, as was the case in June 2021, why they didnt attempt to contact them via 
alternative channels. I can appreciate Mrs and Mr Gs position here, to a degree. But its at 
NatWests discretion as to how they choose to attempt to communicate with their customers 
in such circumstances, and I feel that its incumbent on customers such as Mrs and Mr G to 
keep NatWest updated with viable contact details  which I note that Mrs and Mr G did, 
given that they spoke with NatWest on the telephone number on multiple occasions.
Mrs and Mr G have also questioned why, when the payment of £685 was stopped in June 
2021, this led to two other payments being stopped, including a payment of £16.50 which 
appeared to pose little risk. I can understand why Mrs and Mr G might raise this question. 
But as alluded to above, in June 2021, following the stopping of the initial transaction, 
NatWest had made repeated attempts to contact Mrs and Mr G to allow them to confirm the 
legitimacy of the transaction, all without success. And so, having not received any such 
confirmation from Mrs and Mr G, I dont feel it was unreasonable for NatWest to exercise 
caution in regard to further transactions that were attempted from the account and to have 
stopped those as well. And I also feel it should be reiterated that, ultimately, NatWests 
actions in this regard were designed with the protection or Mrs and Mr Gs account in mind.   
Im also aware that Mrs and Mr G would like a more detailed explanation from NatWest as to 
why the payments in question were flagged by their fraud prevention system. But I hope that 
Mrs and Mr G will understand that it wouldnt be reasonably possible for NatWest to provide 
the level of explanation that theyre wanting here. This is because if a business such as 
NatWest were to release detailed information as to the workings of their fraud prevention systems into the public domain, this would potentially allow that information to be used by 
persons wanting to circumnavigate the fraud prevention systems, and as such could 
compromise the effectiveness of those systems.
It's also for a similar reason to the above that a payment confirmation might be given even 
though a transaction is flagged by a fraud prevention system. In short, because if a business 
were to immediately confirm that an attempted transaction had been flagged, it might be 
possible to discern from the actions that had led to that flag how the fraud prevention system 
operated, which again might compromise that systems effectiveness.
Mrs and Mr G have also raised several concerns about the effectiveness of some of 
NatWests systems and processes. However, its for a business to decide what systems and 
it chooses to use and what processes it elects to employ. And while I can appreciate that 
Mrs and Mr G would like NatWest to have approached the issue of the stopped payments in 
a different way, I dont feel that NatWest have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs 
and Mr G in regard to the actions they did take, as described above. 
Finally, Mrs and Mr G have voiced their concerns about how NatWest can know that a 
certain program is present on their computer, and believe that NatWest would have had to 
access their computer remotely without authorisation to be able to know this. But the 
program in question here is one which allows the remote access of one computer by the 
user of another computer. As such, given that the function of the program is to remotely 
connect computers, its presence can be remotely detected without the need for the 
unauthorised accessing of a computer as Mrs and Mr G were concerned had been the case.
All of which means that, while I can appreciate that Mrs and Mr G did incur a degree of 
inconvenience because of the events that happened here, I feel that it was unfortunately a 
necessary degree of inconvenience, given NatWests obligations in regard to monitoring for 
potentially fraudulent transactions as explained above. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs and Mr G were wanting, but it follows that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to take any further action. I hope 
that Mrs and Mr G will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final 
decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman