DRN-3165966
The complaint
Mr PB and his parents Mr and Mrs B complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a PPI 
policy alongside a mortgage they took out in 2003. 
What happened
Mr PB and his parents took out a mortgage in 2003 which ended in 2015. Alongside that 
they took out a PPI policy covering Mr PB only. The PPI was taken out at a meeting with 
Santander. 
The original monthly cost of the PPI policy was £17.15 and the monthly benefit £284 
per month. Had a successful claim been made on the policy it wouldve paid out for up 
to 12 months per claim.
Our investigator looked into this complaint and did not uphold it. Mr PB didnt agree and so 
the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr PB and Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional and not a condition of the lending. Mr 
PB said he was pressurised into taking out PPI believing that he wouldnt get the mortgage 
otherwise. He said whilst it was his word against the banks, this was a widespread selling 
tactic for PPI and the same thing had happened to his mother some years before. I cant 
know what was discussed at the meeting with the bank. I have seen the type of paperwork 
Santander was using at the time to sell these policies and I cant see that this paperwork 
misled customers about the optional nature of PPI. Given the passage of time, neither 
Santander nor Mr PB or his parents, still have a copy of the paperwork they signed taking 
out PPI.
Based on what I have seen, I dont have enough to fairly conclude that more likely than not 
Santander misled Mr PB and his parents into believing that they would have to take PPI to 
get the mortgage. I think it just as likely that they were persuaded of the benefits of taking 
PPI to protect their mortgage repayments, particularly as Mr and Mrs B werent working, but 
liable for these mortgage repayments. 
As Santander advised Mr PB and Mr and Mrs B to take the policy, it not only had to provide 
information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that they could make an 
informed choice about buying PPI, it also had to make sure that if it was to recommend PPI 
that the policy was suitable for their needs and circumstances. In deciding this complaint, 
although only Mr PB was covered under the policy, I have taken into account Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances too as this was a joint mortgage.
I dont know if Santander did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr PB and his parents for the following reasons:
 Mr PB was eligible for the policy.
 It doesnt look like Mr PB wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions or 
limitations of the policy when he took out the PPI, which couldve made it more difficult 
for him to make a successful claim. So, even if Santander had given Mr PB and his 
parents clearer information, I think they wouldve still taken PPI.
 Mr PB said he wouldve got six months worth of sick pay at full pay and six months at 
half from his employer. The policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and 
covered the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months, if he was unable to work due to 
accident or sickness, or if he lost his job. I think this wouldve been important to him 
because he wouldnt then have been relying on his parents to help with his mortgage 
repayments and he couldve used his work benefits to meet his other household 
expenses knowing his mortgage was covered. 
 Mrs B said they were looking to support their son. They considered that PPI was 
unnecessary as he had sufficient cover, Mr and Mrs B were retired. I think having PPI 
might have been important to them given their other living expenses. Had Mr PB and 
his parents no longer wanted the PPI, they couldve cancelled it at any time without 
losing out financially. Also, as Ive said, I cant see that they were pressured into taking 
it out.
So, I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mr B and his parents in their 
circumstances, taking on a long term financial commitment. Given the implications, if they 
were unable to meet their repayments, I think they wouldve been interested in protecting 
Mr PBs home.  
 Looking at the information they were given about the cost and benefits of the policy 
at the time of sale, like our investigator, I think Santander could have made the 
information clearer to Mr PB and his parents. But looking at the cost of the policy and 
the cover provided, I too think the policy would have provided a useful benefit. There 
was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them, at the time. Mr PB 
said he had to go without some things to pay for the PPI, but I cant see that this 
made the policy clearly unaffordable. The policy benefit was increased over the term 
of the mortgage and with it the amount of the PPI premium. Mr PB said he was 
unaware of this. With money being tight, I think it more likely that Mr PB wouldve 
been aware of these increased costs.  
I also need to consider whether Santander gave Mr PB and his parents information in a way 
which was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make an informed choice about 
whether or not they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if Santander did give all the 
information as it shouldve. But for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based 
on what weve been told about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still 
taken out the policy if theyd been given clearer information.  So, I dont think that Santander 
mis-sold the PPI to Mr PB and his parents.
Santander got a high level of commission from the PPI which they didnt tell Mr PB and his parents about. Santander has paid back any commission that was more than half the 
cost of your PPI policy.I think tthat is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So, on that 
basis, I make no further award.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint and make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr PB and Mr and 
Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman