DRN-2862829
The complaint
Mr W says Shard Capital Partners LLP is responsible for providing him with unsuitable 
advice to switch his personal pension with Phoenix Life into a Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with Lifetime, and to place his funds in inappropriate high-risk investments.
Mr W is represented by Money Redress Limited (MRL).
What happened
For reasons that will become apparent, Ill start by identifying the main companies that 
appear to have had some involvement with Mr W since 2014 with regards to his personal 
pension:
- Phoenix Life  was the provider of Mr Ws personal pension. It is regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
- Preferred Pension LLP  was an appointed representative (AR) of Pensionology.uk 
Ltd between June 2014 and March 2015. It was regulated and able to make 
introductions.
- Pensionolgy.uk.Ltd was a firm which provided advice about pension switches and 
transfers. It was regulated until September 2019. It was dissolved in July 2021. The 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) may consider claims against this 
entity.
- Global Fiduciary Solutions Limited (GFS)  which appears to have been the provider 
of a qualifying recognised overseas pension scheme (QROPS) established and 
regulated in Hong Kong. It wasnt regulated by the FCA.
- KBW Associates Ltd (KBWA) provided various investment services but wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice. It was able to have dealings with 
eligible counterparties and professional clients only. It was registered by the FCA but 
required by it to cease all regulated activities in June 2017. It went into liquidation in 
November 2018. The FSCS may consider claims against this entity.
- The Lifetime SIPP Company Ltd was the provider of Mr Ws SIPP. It was regulated 
by the FCA; however, it went into liquidation in September 2019. The FSCS may 
consider claims against this entity.
- Hartley SAS provided administration support for the Lifetime SIPP.
- Shard Capital Partners LLP (Shard) provides various investment services but isnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice. It was able to deal with eligible 
counterparties, professional and retail clients. It was and remains authorised by the 
FCA.
Mr Ws testimony, as provided through MRL, isnt particularly detailed or specific. And given 
the number of entities involved, its perhaps inevitable that some aspects of this case are 
vague. Helpfully, further information has been provided by the administrators of his SIPP, his 
former pension provider and Shard.
Information provided by Phoenix Life indicates that Mr W was exploring the possibility of 
switching his personal pension to a GFS QROPS in 2014. Hed got reasonably far down the 
road of making the switch, for example he signed a transfer discharge form on 8 December 
2014. 
Before proceeding with the switch of pension funds, Phoenix Life wrote to GFS and Mr W in 
January 2015 letting both parties know that it was obliged to make certain enquiries as part 
of its due diligence process. It noted this could hold matters up a little. Ultimately the switch 
to GFS didnt take place. Its not clear from the paperwork available why this was the case.
Theres a KBWA form on file which appears to be signed and dated by Mr W on 2 April 
2015. This records some basic personal data and gathers information about his investment 
experience. It says Mr W was working full time as an engineer. He wasnt an FCA approved 
individual nor working for an FCA regulated firm.
The form identifies those areas where Mr W intended to trade with KBWA. This included 
high risk, sophisticated instruments such as spread betting; contracts for difference (CFDs); 
exchange traded futures and options; as well as foreign exchange and equities. His 
investment objectives were said to be income and capital growth. And that hed been trading 
in financial markets for 3-5 years.
The form then appears to capture Mr Ws responses to several questions about his 
frequency, exposure, experience and understanding of trading. And the responses result in 
him being classified by KBWA as a professional investor. The form sets out the implications 
of this, including exclusion from certain FCA protections for retail clients.
In April 2015 Mr W also engaged Preferred Pension. It wrote to Phoenix Life on 7 April 2015 
seeking information about his personal pension, perhaps with the ultimate intention of 
introducing him to Pensionology.uk Ltd for pension advice.
Phoenix Life sent Preferred Pension a letter dated 14 April 2015. This provided a transfer 
quote and some information about what Mr W should consider and next steps. Enclosed was 
a transfer discharge form, questionnaire and declaration for completion. No further action 
appears to have been taken by the introducing firm.
In bringing his complaint to this Service, Mr W has been largely silent on the aforementioned 
matters.
On 27 May 2015 the new business team at Hartley SAS notified KBWA it had received and 
was processing Mr Ws application for a Lifetime SIPP.
On 23 July 2015 Mr W appears to have signed a power of attorney (POA) form (which was 
witnessed) authorising KBWA to perform, execute and approve all transactions on his 
Lifetime SIPP. It also set out the agreement between him, KBWA and Shard in terms of 
respective responsibilities and expectations. 
On 13 August 2015 Hartley SAS wrote to Mr W acknowledging receipt of his Lifetime SIPP 
application. It included various documents and informed him of his cancellation rights. It also 
said that before he took any action it strongly recommended he should contact the individual 
hed been dealing with at KBWA (although it referred to him as working for Shard). 
On 13 August 2015 Harley SAS wrote to KBWA informing it had set-up a SIPP for Mr W. It 
sought confirmation about whether his Phoenix pension had any safeguarded benefits. 
KBWA responded on 14 August 2015 that there werent. On 17 August 2015 Hartley SAS 
notified KBWA that it had requested funds from Mr Ws personal pension.A transaction record from the Origo system used to effect switches between financial firms 
shows a request to move Mr Ws pension funds was created on 17 August 2015. Phoenix 
Life has informed this Service that that on 27 August 2015 Mr W contacted it to confirm that 
he wished to switch his personal pension to a Lifetime SIPP and not GFS.
On 3 September 2015 Phoenix Life wrote to Mr W to tell him payment of around £19,100 
from his personal pension would be made to his Lifetime SIPP within days. It noted that his 
pot had been reduced by about £2,100 for an early claim charge, as provided for in the 
terms and conditions of his plan. It wrote to Lifetime SIPP in similar terms.
Phoenix Life sent Mr W another letter dated 3 September 2015. This provided a transfer 
quote. On the first page it also said he should consider carefully whether he was making the 
right choice. It said he should check to see if his policy had any valuable protections and 
guarantees that hed be giving up if he proceeded. It attached further information for him to 
read. And it suggested he obtain financial advice before proceeding. Enclosed was a 
transfer discharge form, questionnaire and declaration for completion.
On 7 September 2015 Hartley SAS wrote to KBWA, copying in Shard, informing it that Mr 
Ws personal pension funds had been received.
KBWA wrote to Shard on 4 November 2015 attaching an application from Mr W to open a 
trading account. This restated some of the information taken from him in April 2015. But this 
time it focussed on his wish to trade in CFDs for the purpose of capital growth and income. 
These were classified as very high risk.
KBWA enclosed documents signed and dated 4 November 2015 showing Mr W had granted 
it POA in respect of transactions on his Lifetime SIPP. It included an advice waiver stating 
that Shard wasnt responsible for any client loss or negligence on its part in respect of the 
decisions it took for Mr W. Another document showed it had categorised him as a 
professional client.
Shard wrote to KBWA on 9 November 2015, confirming that a trading account had been 
established for Mr W. It noted the status of the account was professional client. On 10 
November 2015, KBWA took control of Mr Ws funds.
On 8 January 2016 KBWA wrote to Mr W noting the recent extremely volatile trading period 
and the context of this in historic terms. It provided assurance that markets would settle 
down during the early part of the year. 
On 8 December 2016 KBWA wrote to Mr W again. This time it reflected on what had been a 
particularly difficult year  contributing to a perfect storm. This had been to the detriment of 
its trading model. It expected that over a 4-5 year cycle its investment strategy would make 
good profits to more than compensate recent losses.
On 12 January 2017 Lifetime SIPP wrote to Mr W informing him it had suspended all trading 
on his account. It noted several concerns which had led it to take the action, including 
significant losses on trading.
On 31 January 2017 Lifetime SIPP wrote to Mr W again. It had been asked by KBWA to 
enable it to resume active management of Mr Ws account. Lifetime SIPP still had grave 
concerns about how the value of his funds had diminished over a very short period. On 13 
March 2017 Mr W appears to have responded saying he wanted KBWA to resume its activity 
on his behalf and to receive fees for doing so.On 4 August 2017 Lifetime SIPP wrote to Mr W informing him that the FCA had suspended 
KBWAs regulatory permissions. It noted that as a result Shard had terminated its 
relationship with KBWA. As the investment platform provider, it had returned what remained 
of his pension pot to his SIPP account. The residual balance was £754. KBWA went into 
liquidation in 2018.
Given the defunct status of KBWA, Mr W brought a claim against it under the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). But in November 2019 it told him that he should 
contact Shard in the first instance because it had been involved in providing him with advice 
to switch his Phoenix Life pension to a Lifetime SIPP.
MRL contacted Shard on 9 December 2019 raising a complaint on behalf of Mr W about 
what had happened in 2015. It said he had reason to believe Shard had been involved in 
providing him with unsuitable advice to switch his personal pension into a SIPP and to make 
inappropriate investments.
Shard provided its final response letter on 24 December 2019. In summarising it said:
Shard Capital did not provide any financial advice or pension scheme recommendations as 
stated in your letter. Shard Capital's only involvement was to provide a trading platform for 
KBW Associates to execute their investment strategy on behalf of the clients they were 
investment manager for. This is clearly set out in the documentation signed by the client and 
KBW Associates, confirming both their role as portfolio manager and Shard Capital's role as 
the platform provider for KBW Associates to execute their strategy. Please see the 
Declaration of PoA and Advice Waiver attached.
KBW Associates were the portfolio manager for these clients and had full responsibility as 
an FCA regulated firm to carry out the suitability checks, client classification and setting the 
trading strategy for their clients. Shard Capital carried out due diligence on KBW Associates 
prior to commencement of the relationship. Shard Capital's agreement with KBW Associates 
has since been terminated. We have no information of how KBW Associates came about 
their clients, but KBW Associates as an introducer of clients to Shard Capital were 
themselves an FCA regulated firm, as are Lifetime SIPP.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Shards response and so he brought his case to this Service. He 
summarised his complaint in the following terms:
I was very inexperienced in investment matters, so would have expected to see a detailed 
comparison between my existing and proposed arrangements, with demonstrable evidence 
of why I would be better off taking the advice provided. There was no clarity in the 
Investment process to match my circumstances. attitude to risk, capacity for loss (of my 
pension fund) and objectives. I was a low risk investor, preferring to keep things safe, and so 
was and am concerned about investing in the manner arranged following the firm's advice. I 
do not recall receiving a suitability letter. In effect therefore the advice and arrangements 
made by the firm are entirely inconsistent with my objectives, stated attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss.
The Investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. On balance he didnt think the available 
evidence showed Shard had provided him with advice in relation to the switch of his 
personal pension nor the investment strategy he followed. 
The investigator sought more information from Phoenix Life, Shard and the administrator for 
Lifetime SIPP about what had happened in 2015. Ive already set out the relevant elements 
of this in the background to this case. After reviewing the additional information the 
Investigator didnt think it changed his conclusions. Mr W disagreed and so his complaint has been passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final stage of 
our process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The main reason why Shard has been identified as a firm that had some involvement with 
the provision of advice to Mr W is clear. It was noted as such on key records including 
application documents which appear to have been submitted by KBWA to Hartley SAS, 
Lifetimes new SIPP checklist and the Origo switch transaction in August 2015. 
It seems reasonable to assume that Phoenix Life which had a role in facilitating the switch of 
Mr Ws personal pension funds to his Lifetime SIPP wouldve taken some assurance from 
what it was being informed by Hartley SAS (which requested the switch) about a financial 
adviser being in place.
In rejecting Mr Ws complaint, Shard said:
Lifetime SIPP (with Hartley-SAS as administrators) have historically incorrectly stated in 
their communications and documentation that Shard Capital was the IFA. This is incorrect 
and has never been the case. Shard Capital does not have FCA permissions to perform an 
IFA role and nor has it ever been in Shard Capital's business model.
Firstly, Id note here that for a regulated firm to engage in activities for which it wasnt 
authorised would be a very serious matter.
There is also some evidence that Hartley SAS hadnt got a handle on which firm it thought 
had given Mr W advice. And that matters were being guided by KBWA. I say this because as 
Ive set out, in August 2015 Hartley SAS wrote to him acknowledging receipt of his Lifetime 
SIPP application. It strongly recommended he should contact the individual hed been 
dealing with at KBWA (although it incorrectly referred to him as working for Shard).
I recognise that Mr W brought his complaint because the FSCS considered it was possible 
there were other regulated firms that were still in business which couldve been responsible 
for his losses. I note that he initially brought his claim against KBWA. 
Im mindful that in bringing Mr Ws complaint against Shard, his testimony as provided via 
MRL has been lacking in detail. For example about the names of the individual(s) who gave 
him advice, who that person worked for, how many times they met and where, what was 
discussed and why hed been persuaded to switch his personal pension. Mr W has also told this Service he doesnt recall receiving a suitability report. And none has 
been produced by any of the parties. 
I dont know what information and/or advice other entities involved with Mr W prior to his 
engagement with KBWA, such as Preferred Pension LLP, gave Mr W about his pension 
arrangements. Nor how any such information or advice impacted on his decision making.
And Id observe that given Mr Ws personal pension with Phoenix Life was worth less than 
£30,000 and didnt provide for any safeguarded benefits, there wasnt a legal requirement for 
him to obtain financial advice.
I think the role of KBWA in what happened to Mr W is significant. I say this because:
- He appears to have been engaged with KBWA early on, for example in April 2015 
theres a form which indicates his intent to use its service for trading.
- As early as July 2015 he appears to have signed a power of attorney (POA) form 
(which was witnessed) authorising KBWA to perform, execute and approve all 
transactions for his pension arrangement.
- Key communications to establish the Lifetime SIPP were between KBWA and Hartley 
SAS. It was holding the ring on the transaction.
- The FCA and Lifetime SIPP later raised serious concerns about KBWA including 
about its account opening process, client classification, recording of client trading 
experience and record keeping. There were also issues around the costs and fees 
associated with the accounts and the transparency of parties associated with the 
investments made.
- While these matters were raised by the FCA and Lifetime SIPP after Mr W had 
switched his pension, they reflect evidence found about how KBWA operated which 
must have some bearing on the appropriateness of its dealings with Mr W.
Mr Ws funds were switched in September 2015. Ive seen a Lifetime SIPP transaction 
report. Theres no item showing any fees for advice were taken by any firm. Often when 
advice is provided the charges are taken from the pension pot. A client can of course pay for 
service using their other means, but Mr W hasnt provided evidence of paying for advice 
directly.
It wasnt until November 2015 that an application to Shard was made to open a trading 
account for Mr W which would be controlled by KBWA. From the available evidence, this 
appears to have been when it first became actively involved in his interests.
Taking all of these matters into account and based on the evidence available to me, it 
wouldnt be reasonable for me to hold Shard Capital Partners LLP responsible for giving Mr 
W advice to switch his personal pension funds into a Lifetime SIPP and to use the money to 
make high-risk investments.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman