DRN-2316125
The complaint
Miss S, as a director of a limited company J complains about Barclays Bank UK Plcs 
handling of Js claim in relation to a disputed cash machine (ATM) withdrawal.
For ease of reading, Ill mostly refer to Miss S, rather than J. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a summary of some key events here. 
J have an account with Barclays and Miss S has a debit card for that account. In 
August 2018, Miss S was doing her company accounts when she noticed an ATM 
withdrawal for £200 which had taken place at the end of August 2017. Miss S says she didnt 
recognise that transaction and knows it couldnt have been her for a variety of reasons. 
These included it being made at a location shes never used to withdraw cash. 
Miss S reported the matter to Barclays shortly afterwards, initially by making a phone call 
and later by writing letters which she sent by recorded delivery. In October 2018 Barclays 
responded to Miss S. In summary they apologised for not investigating her disputed 
transaction but said they were unaware of specifically which transactions she wished to 
dispute. They explained that if she told them which transactions were in dispute, they would 
look into things for her. They also sent her a cheque for £100 to compensate for the poor 
service shed received. 
In August 2019, Miss S contacted our service about this matter. She was unhappy that 
Barclays hadnt responded to further letters she had sent them, and that the disputed ATM 
withdrawal had still not been investigated. 
Following our services involvement Barclays said that due to the passage of time there was 
limited evidence available. But as a gesture of goodwill they would refund the £200 ATM 
withdrawal that Miss S was disputing. Our investigator concluded that this (along with the 
£100 already paid for distress and inconvenience) was a fair way to resolve the complaint. 
Miss S didnt agree. She would like a detailed explanation of how someone was able to use 
an ATM when she was in possession of the card. She would also like to know specifically 
what went wrong that caused Barclays not to respond to numerous letters she had sent 
them. She would also like the compensation to be increased.
As an agreement couldnt be found, the complaint came to me for a decision. In October 
2020 I issued a provisional decision in which I said: 
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, Im not intending to ask Barclays to do more than theyve already offered to 
do. I know Miss S will be disappointed by this, so Ill explain why. 
Our service is an informal dispute resolution service and an alternative to the courts. Where 
something has gone wrong, we have the power to tell a regulated financial business (such 
as Barclays) what they must do to put things right. But, it isnt always possible to investigate 
the full details of the causes of a problem, or to discover why things went wrong. I dont think 
we always need to establish this, as long as we remain satisfied that the business has done 
enough to put things right. 
Im not going to make a finding as to how the ATM withdrawal in 2017 took place (or whether 
or not Miss S authorised it). Miss S says she didnt make or otherwise authorise it and 
Barclays have offered to credit the account with that amount. I think that is fair in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I can quite understand why Miss S would like an explanation of what happened in relation to 
the withdrawal and her concerns around the security of her card and account. But as it 
doesnt appear that there have been further instances or reports of fraud since that 
transaction (in 2017), I dont think its likely that there is an ongoing issue for Barclays to 
address. The gesture of goodwill means that J havent suffered a financial loss and even if I 
were to conclude that the withdrawal hadnt been authorised (something I make no finding 
on), I wouldnt be asking Barclays to do more than refund it in any case.
I accept that Miss S wrote to Barclays on numerous occasions and that this often wasnt 
responded to. Barclays have suggested that it is often best to email or call, to ensure a query 
gets to the right department. But, I agree with Miss S that Barclays ought to have responded 
to the letters she sent them. 
Miss S points out that she was offered £100 compensation in October 2018 for failings up to 
that point. And that there have been further instances of poor service, for which she hasnt 
been compensated. Ive thought carefully about this. But the account holder (and therefore 
the complainant) is J. As such any award I might make could only be to J which is a 
separate legal entity to Miss S. 
As a company, J cant feel distress and on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded that J 
were inconvenienced. I accept that Miss S has personally put time and effort into writing 
letters and pursuing the dispute. And whilst Barclays sent her a cheque for £100 in October 
2018 (which Barclays say has since been cashed). I cant, for the reasons described above, 
make an award to Miss S personally. 
Miss S says shes more recently sent Barclays a cheque for £100 as she wishes to return 
that amount, deeming it insufficient compensation. That is something Miss S is entitled to do, 
but it doesnt change my thoughts in relation to Js complaint. Miss S may wish to consider 
instructing her bank to cancel that cheque if she decides to accept Barclays offer. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Barclays offer to refund J the disputed ATM withdrawal amount of 
£200 as a gesture of goodwill is fair in the circumstances. And Im not persuaded that J (as 
opposed to Miss S) has been caused inconvenience to the extent that compensation needs 
to be paid. So, Im not intending to tell Barclays they need to do more to resolve this 
complaint.
Barclays responded and said they had nothing further to add. Miss S responded and made 
some further points which Ill address below. Now both sides have had the opportunity to 
comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S made a detailed response to my provisional decision. Ive read and considered all 
she sent in, but Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome Ive previously explained. I 
also wont be responding in similar detail and will focus on the reasons for my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.  
Much of Miss Ss response was in relation to what our investigator had said about her 
complaint. My provisional decision represented my thoughts on this complaint, so I wont be 
commenting further on what our investigator said. 
Miss S makes much of the fact that her letters were sent by recorded delivery and that 
Barclays record their calls. She believes through this combination, Barclays had enough 
information to address her dispute sooner than they did. I previously agreed that Barclays 
ought to have responded to Miss Ss letters. And irrespective of any failure to investigate the 
disputed transaction, this has now been refunded in full. I think that is fair.
I acknowledge Miss Ss desire to know the specific details of what happened here. But I 
dont agree this needs to be investigated further to fairly resolve this complaint. It may not be 
possible to find the answers to the level of detail that Miss S would like  but in any case, Im 
satisfied Barclays dont need to do anything further to put things right.
Ultimately Barclays have accepted their service wasnt to the standard they usually aim for 
and offered Miss S £100 compensation. Js disputed transaction was refunded and Im not 
persuaded on the facts of this case that there was sufficient impact on J (as the complainant) 
to justify making an award.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman