DRN-3159494
The complaint
Mr B complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt refunded the premiums he paid for a 
single trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a single trip travel insurance policy with Great Lakes on 23 September 2020 
for a holiday which was due to take place from 18 January until 25 January 2021. Mr B paid 
a total of £47.75 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of travel 
insurance cover, which also covered him for a number of declared medical conditions.  
On 31 December 2020, Mr B contacted Great Lakes to explain that he was unable to travel 
to his intended holiday destination due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He told Great Lakes that 
he had very little value from this travel policy and he requested it refund the premium hed 
paid.
Great Lakes informed Mr B that a full refund couldnt be provided as his 14 day cooling off 
period had expired and, under the terms of his policy, no refund was due. But Mr B wasnt 
happy with how Great Lakes intended to resolve his complaint and referred it to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any 
premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also explained that 
Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be performed because 
cover under the policy started on 23 September 2020 and the policy covered various risks 
during that time. 
Our investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They didnt think Great Lakes had acted unfairly in declining to offer a refund here. And so 
they didnt recommend upholding this complaint. Great Lakes agreed with our investigators 
view of this complaint. But Mr B disagreed. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair 
and reasonable way of resolving this complaint. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
I can see that Mr B has made our service aware of how other insurers have dealt with travel 
insurance refund requests. But this service considers complaints on an individual basis. So, 
its not our role to comment on the wider industry issues Mr B has raised.  
Mr B has also shared  his views  that, in refusing  to issue  a refund,  Great  Lakes  is 
ignoring  Financial  Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  guidance  on issuing  travel  insurance  
premium  refunds.  I want  to make  clear  that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a 
regulator. We provide informal dispute resolution. The FCA is the regulator  and it is open  
to Mr B to report  his concerns  about  the way Great  Lakes  operates  to the FCA,  although  
it doesn't  consider  individual  complaints.
The terms and conditions of Mr Bs travel insurance policy with Great Lakes state: 
If you cancel  within  14 days  of the receipt  of your documentation  and you have  not 
started  a trip or made  or intend  to make  a claim,  we will give you a full refund.  Following  
this 14 day period,  you continue  to have  the right to cancel  your policy  at any time by 
contacting  us. 
If the notice  of cancellation  is received  outside  of the 14 day cooling-off  period  no 
premium  will be refunded.  However,  discretion  may be exercised  in exceptional  
circumstances  such  as bereavement  or a change  to your policy  resulting  in us declining  
to cover  your medical  conditions.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr B to receive a refund of the 
premiums because: 
Cover under Mr Bs policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance validation certificate he received. Im satisfied Mr 
B was reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to his policy, which are 
typical of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a 
refund. And it is a fundamental principle of insurance law that if the insurer had 
started to bear risk  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable.
Mr B wasnt just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also 
covered him for cancellation cover from 23 September 2020. So, the premium he 
paid covered the risk of him having to cancel his holiday due to any of a number of 
listed events insured under the policy including, for example, him falling ill with a 
declared pre-existing medical condition.
There was less than a month remaining on Mr Bs travel policy from the date he 
requested a refund to the date his policy was due to expire. So, he benefitted from 
the cover the policy afforded him for the majority of the time it was in force. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off period except in exceptional circumstances. The 
examples of exceptional circumstances identified in the policy are specific to the 
individual policyholder, such as bereavement or changes to their health. They dont 
extend to cancellation as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ive taken into account the relevant industry guidance and what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the complaint, including the unique and unprecedented 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. And Ive also considered that Mr B took out his 
policy at a time when the impact of the pandemic was ongoing and there was 
ongoing travel disruption. Whilst in some circumstances we may have directed a 
refund I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to do so here due to the date of 
purchase.Based on the available evidence, there arent any exceptional circumstances that 
persuade me that Great Lakes should issue a refund here. So, Im not going to direct 
it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman