DRN-4441147
The complaint
Mrs S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc purchased some shares for a higher price than 
she wanted to pay. 
What happened
On 14 April 2023, Mrs S placed an order to purchase 5,000 shares. She says that when she 
placed the order the indicated share price was between 10 and 15p. However, HSBC 
completed the order for a price of 24p per share. 
Mrs S complained to HSBC as she felt it shouldnt have proceeded with the order if the price 
was more than 15p per share. She said the shares have since fallen in price and so HSBC 
should compensate her for this. 
HSBC considered Mrs S complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary, it said:
Mrs S placed the order at the best price and so it fulfilled  the order using the best 
price it could obtain from the market. 
The order went out to four market makers, two of which quoted a purchase price of 
40p, but ultimately, it was able to achieve a best price of 24p per share.
If Mrs S had a specific price she didnt want to be exceeded, she ought to have 
added a limit price to the order. 
The use of limit prices has been previously explained to Mrs S. 
Mrs S remained unhappy and so she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
One of our investigators considered Mrs S complaint but explained that they didnt think 
HSBC had acted unfairly. In summary, they said:
HSBC had confirmed the price indication of 15p per share Mrs S saw was only 
for orders that didnt exceed 1,000 shares. 
Mrs S had placed the order at the best price without adding a limit price to the order 
and so HSBC hadnt acted unfairly by purchasing the shares at the best price it could 
achieve. 
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary, she said:
The shares have since become delisted and so shes lost all of her investment.
She accepts she didnt add a limit price on the order, but she doesnt think this gave 
HSBC the right to purchase the shares at a higher price than indicated to her. 
HSBC does not allow investors to check live prices if they do not have enough funds 
available to complete the order. However, she was able to purchase shares that put 
her balance in debit. She thinks HSBC shouldnt have completed the order is she 
didnt have enough funds in her account. 
As Mrs S remained unhappy, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBCs sharedealing and investment terms and conditions set out HSBCs relationship with 
Mrs S. Most relevant to Mrs S complaint in Section 4 of these which set out the standard of 
care HSBC would take when acting on her instructions:
As set out above, the Investment dealing part of the Service is an execution-only 
service. This means:
we'll not provide you with discretionary or advisory management services;
 we'll not make any Investment dealing decisions on your behalf;
 you're solely responsible for the Investment dealing Instructions you give to us;
 we're not required to assess the suitability or appropriateness of the Service or any 
Investments for you; and
 the protection provided by the FCA on assessing suitability does not apply to the 
Service or any Investments.
The only duty we owe you when acting on your Investment dealing Instructions Is to 
take all sufficient steps to achieve the Best Possible Result.
Best Possible Result is defined as being:
when executing orders on a consistent basis, including in situations of market 
stress, we'll take into account a range of factors which include: price; cost; speed; 
likelihood of execution and settlement; size; nature; or any other consideration 
relevant to the execution of Client Orders. Price and execution costs will be 
paramount although other factors such as the type of order, the type of Financial 
Instrument and the choice of Execution Venue will also be considered where 
necessary;
So considering the above, its clear HSBC was providing Mrs S with an execution-only 
service and so it wouldnt be expected to make any investment decisions on her behalf. As 
such, she was solely responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the instructions it gave to 
HSBC.
I understand Mrs S feels she was given incorrect information regarding the share price she 
was presented with when making the instruction. Looking at the terms and conditions, HSBC 
clearly explains that the price quoted isnt guaranteed:
When I place a deal is the price quoted guaranteed?
No. When you enter a buy or sell order In a UK Investment during Trading Hours 
through Online Banking, we'll usually show you a 'fixed price quote' on the preview 
order screen which we will use our best endeavours to fulfil. The fixed price quote Is 
calculated by taking the best price offered by a number of market makers at the time 
we request a quote. A countdown screen will appear and give you 15 seconds to 
confirm the order. The price quoted to you will hold good for 15 seconds unless for 
example, there has been market volatility In the 15 second countdown and the price offered by a third party market maker is withdrawn.
The market may fluctuate during the 15 seconds you have to accept the fixed price 
quote provided. This means that if your order is executed in the market at the fixed 
price quoted, it may be better or worse than the best bid or offer price at the time of 
execution.
HSBC has explained that the price indicated to Mrs S wasnt achievable due to her order of 
5,000 shares being over the market limit of 1,000 shares for the 10 to 15p price quoted. And 
so the best price it could achieve for this volume of shares was 24p per share. HSBC had a 
duty under the terms and conditions to achieve the best possible result and Im satisfied it 
did this in getting the best available price for the volume of shares Mrs S had instructed it to 
purchase. 
I appreciate Mrs S think the best possible result would have been not to purchase the shares 
if the price exceeded the quoted 10 to 15p per share, however, I dont agree. I say this as 
Mrs S didnt put a limit order on her instruction. The terms and conditions clearly explained 
that Mrs S could add these to an order, and I understand HSBC had explained how limit 
orders work with Mrs S, prior to her making this instruction. As Ive explained above, it was 
Mrs S responsibility to ensure that her instruction was accurate and so I dont think HSBC 
has acted unfairly in purchasing the shares at the price it did when she hadnt set a limit to 
the price she was willing to purchase these for. 
Ive also considered Mrs S comment that HSBC ought not to have allowed her to purchase 
the shares when she didnt have enough funds in her account. And having done so, Im not 
persuaded this would make any difference to my findings. I say this as even if Mrs S didnt 
have sufficient funds available in her cash account, HSBC is able under to the terms and 
conditions to proceed with the transaction. The terms and conditions explain:
What are my settlement obligations when I ask you to buy an Investment?
If you've asked us to buy an Investment you must make sure you're able to pay for 
the Investment (including any associated transaction costs) on the settlement date. 
This will be the date that is set out on the contract note you receive for the order.
You'll be able to pay for your order if, on the settlement date, you have either 
enough:
available funds in your Cash Account; or
available credit limit on your Trading Reserve.
[]
Alternatively, we may exercise our discretion to treat your buy order as a request for 
an unarranged Trading Reserve or to informally extend your Trading Reserve limit 
So taking into account all of the above, Im satisfied HSBC has acted fairly in completing Mrs 
S instruction at the price of 24p per share. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs S complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Ben Waites
Ombudsman