DRN-2236776
The complaint
Mr Ps unhappy with the actions of Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, in relation 
to his credit card.
What happened
In September 2016, Mr Ps outstanding credit card debt was sold to a third-party debt 
company. The balance of the account, at the time of this sale, was £1,870.71.
Mr P doesnt believe this balance to be accurate, because he says it was agreed there would 
be a refund of interest charged, which should have reduced down the balance.
More recently he complained to Barclaycard about this. They replied to his complaint in 
January 2020. They said theyd told Mr P about the sale back in 2016, gave him copies of 
the letters and said this is evidence of the balance of the account when it was sold. They 
also said theyd been in touch with the third-party debt company, who said Mr Ps 
outstanding balance was now £1,833.71. They told him theyd been sending his £1.00 a 
month payment on to the third-party debt company. And they added they couldnt find any 
evidence of the interest refunds Mr P told them had been agreed  and asked him for 
information about this.
Mr P wasnt happy with this and got back in touch with Barclaycard and asked for statements 
to be sent to him so he could look at the balance himself. Upon receipt of the statements, 
Mr P complained the statements werent sent securely, the envelope theyd been sent in was 
damaged, some months were missing, and he was unhappy the statements werent in the 
same format as the originals. Mr P was also concerned Barclaycard didnt have everything 
from 2013 he felt they should have such as call recordings.
Barclaycard said when copy statements are sent they arent in the same format as the 
originals they are copies, theyre not required to send them by recorded delivery and its 
normal for them to have been posted rather than e-mailed. They added the statements sent 
were all the ones available, and they stop issuing statements when an account goes to their 
recovery department. And they said theyd tried to find call recordings from 2013 to check 
Mr Ps claim about the interest refunds  but they only found one call which didnt mention 
this.
Unhappy with all of this, Mr P asked us to look into what had happened. Our investigator did 
so, but in summary didnt agree Barclaycard had done anything wrong  so didnt feel they 
owed Mr P any compensation. He also found Mr Ps concerns about interest refunds to be 
out of time according to our rules, meaning we couldnt look into that aspect of his complaint. 
Mr P didnt agree with this. He said the balance of his credit card account was wrong when it 
was sold because it included interest which Barclaycard agreed to refund. He also said 
Barclaycard shouldnt have his last six years worth of statements if they sold his account  
and hed asked for proof of how much the account was sold for. And he said they put his 
data security at risk because there are missing statements somewhere.
Because of these concerns, Mr Ps complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive separated Mr Ps issues under three headings and will explain each in turn:
The balance of the account at the point it was sold
Service provided when the statements were sent
Other issues
The balance of the account at the point it was sold
Mr P thinks the balance of the account is wrong is because Barclaycard had agreed to 
refund the interest to him. 
Barclaycard have said theyve no record of this, and asked Mr P to provide evidence this 
was agreed to. 
Ive explained in a separate decision why our service cant look into this aspect of Mr Ps 
complaint.
Although this seems to be the key reason why Mr P thinks the balance is wrong, Ive still had 
a look at the evidence available to satisfy myself about the current outstanding balance.
Barclaycard have shown me Mr P began making £1.00 payments in March 2013 towards his 
outstanding balance. In September 2016, as noted above, Mr Ps balance was £1,870.71. 
Ive seen the account movements, which Mr P has also been provided with. These show 
each month the £1.00 payment being made to the account from October 2016, up to 
October 2019. Thats 37 months, and with the overall balance outstanding as at January 
2020 of £1,833.71, it appears Mr Ps balance is correct.
So, taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr Ps outstanding balance is accurate.
Service provided when the statements were sent
Itll help to say in advance of explaining my findings that its not my role to tell financial 
businesses such as Barclaycard how to operate. Thats a matter of their commercial 
judgement. Rather wed look at the impact thats been caused as a result of Barclaycards 
actions.
Initially when Mr P asked for copy statements, he asked for them to be posted. Barclaycard 
said theyd do that  but then Mr P said he was concerned about the impact on the 
environment, so wanted them emailed over to him instead.
Barclaycard said their usual process is to post them out. So, given this is what Mr P 
originally asked for, and is Barclaycards process, I dont think theyve acted unfairly. I also 
note Barclaycard were made aware of some issues with Mr P getting the statements in the 
post and so also sent them to Mr P by email.
Mr P says when he received the statements in the post, he found there were some missing 
and the envelope was torn. Mr P hasnt been specific about the months the statements were 
missing for. Barclaycard have said all the months they could provide were provided on two separate occasions. On balance it seems unlikely to me that Barclaycard would deliberately, 
on two occasions, remove statements when Mr P has asked for all of them to be provided. 
So, it seems more likely that if any were removed, then this may have happened when they 
were in the post. I can appreciate Mr P wouldnt have been happy with this  but, like the 
torn envelope, this isnt something I can hold Barclaycard responsible for as I think its more 
likely than not this happened after they were posted.
Mr P has argued this wouldnt have happened if theyd sent the statements by recorded 
delivery. I can understand why Mr P would say that, but as this is Barclaycards process, it 
isnt something I can say they did wrong by not using recorded delivery  and as Ive 
explained above, I cant hold them responsible for what happened after they posted the 
statements.
Other issues
Ive listed out some other concerns Mr P has raised  and provided my response to them 
below. 
Barclaycard shouldnt have kept his statements after they sold his account  I 
dont think this was unreasonable of Barclaycard to do so, as it helps to resolve 
disputes.
They didnt include a cover letter with the statements  Mr P had asked for the 
statements, and I think once hed looked at them, he would have realised what they 
were. So, I dont think Barclaycard did anything wrong here.
No return address on the envelope the statements arrived in  Mr P knew who 
had sent the statements and had contact details for them. Mr P has said the 
statements could also have got lost. But, as he received them, there hasnt been any 
detriment to him.
Barclaycard have acted vindictively  based on everything Ive seen I think 
Barclaycard and their staff have tried to help Mr P at all times.
Summary
Based on the information Ive seen, Mr Ps account balance is accurate, and I think 
Barclaycard acted fairly and in line with their processes when sending him his statements.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold Mr Ps complaints.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman