DRN-1983599
The complaint
Mrs K is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with a claim she made under her 
legal expenses insurance policy.
Any references to Aviva in this decision, include that of its agents and claims handlers.  
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made. Some information has been provided for 
background purposes only.
Mrs K was unhappy with various matters relating to the block of flats in which she lived and, 
how they were being managed. She therefore made a claim on her policy to cover the costs 
of pursuing legal action. Mrs K wanted Aviva to appoint her own firm of solicitors from the 
start of the claim.
Aviva explained that it needed to validate Mrs Ks insurance claim first and it would also 
require an assessment from one of its legal advisers to ensure the legal claim was one that, 
more likely than not, could be won. If the assessment was positive, it said that while it didnt 
need to appoint Mrs Ks solicitors until legal proceedings were necessary, it was happy to do 
so beforehand if the solicitor would agree to Avivas panel terms of business. 
Avivas panel solicitors were conflicted, so it instructed a different firm to provide an 
assessment. Aviva let Mrs K know the solicitors didnt think the legal claim had a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding and so it wouldnt be providing cover for the claim under the policy. It 
explained to Mrs K that if she could provide a positive assessment from her own solicitors, 
then it would consider the matter further, ultimately seeking opinion from counsel if 
necessary. 
Mrs K was unhappy, she complained Aviva had delayed in providing its assessment and 
responding to her emails. She didnt think the lawyer that provided the assessment was 
competent to do so and that her preferred firm of solicitors should have been appointed.  
Aviva explained it was entitled to validate the claim and seek an assessment on prospects of 
success from its legal advisers, as per Mrs Ks policy. It reiterated Mrs K wasnt entitled 
under her policy for her preferred solicitors to be appointed at that time and, it didnt think 
there had been any delays in dealing with the claim. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He said the 
terms of Mrs Ks policy didnt support her preferred solicitors being appointed at the start of 
the claim. He said Aviva was entitled to rely on the legal opinion it received to decline the 
claim and he didnt think Mrs Ks claim had been delayed.
Mrs K disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In doing so, she said she felt the 
investigator had ignored the relevant facts, instead, choosing to repeat Avivas position. She 
mentioned Tribunal proceedings had been instigated for a matter she was concerned about 
and as her solicitors knew the background of the matter, they should have been appointed 
by Aviva. She was unhappy Aviva initially mentioned appointing a firm of solicitors she had 
previously taken action against. Mrs K also mentioned that she made a second claim to 
Aviva at the same time as this one and was unhappy that hadnt been taken into 
consideration.
The case has come to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K has made a number of points. I want to assure her Ive considered all of them but Im 
going to focus my findings on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend 
this as a discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
As Mrs K has mentioned, she made a second claim to Aviva at the same time this claim was 
being dealt with. I can confirm to Mrs K that I am aware of that claim and her dissatisfaction 
with how it was handled. However, this decision only concerns matters up to the date Aviva 
issued its final response letter on 3 April 2020 which is when it initially told Mrs K the legal 
assessment was unsupportive of her first claim. 
Having reviewed everything, I wont be upholding Mrs Ks complaint. I know this will be 
disappointing, but Ill explain why.
The policy terms explain that once a claim has been accepted, a lawyer will be appointed to 
assess how likely it is the legal claim can be won. It goes on to explain if the lawyers opinion 
is supportive, Aviva will allow the legal claim to be pursued and the lawyers costs and 
expenses be paid. 
In this case, the lawyers opinion was that Mrs Ks legal claim was unlikely to succeed. As 
Aviva themselves arent legal experts, I think its fair for them to rely on suitably qualified 
legal opinion when making decisions about a claim. Unless that opinion is so obviously 
wrong that it would be apparent to a layperson. Im satisfied the lawyer appointed was 
suitably qualified to make such a judgement. And having read the opinion, I dont think it is 
obviously wrong or incorrect. So, I think it was fair for Aviva to rely on this when deciding not 
to fund the claim. 
It did explain to Mrs K she could arrange for own assessment to be made and if that opinion 
differed, it would consider the matter further.  I think this was a reasonable action for Aviva to 
take and it was in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mrs K has argued her preferred solicitors should have been appointed from the start. Im 
aware Mrs Ks solicitors held the opinion the legal claim would more likely than not succeed. 
However, this doesnt mean Aviva should have disregarded the initial validation stage of the 
insurance claim, it was entitled to take the action it did and arrange for its own legal 
assessment to take place. As that was unsupportive, there was no requirement for it to 
agree to appoint Mrs Ks preferred solicitors.  
I dont think there were any avoidable delays in Avivas handling of the insurance claim. 
Some of the lawyers it approached were conflicted and therefore it took a while before a 
legal assessment could be provided. But this was something that was outside of Avivas 
control. In one of its updates, Aviva told Mrs K of one of the firm of solicitors it had 
approached to provide an assessment. Aviva wasnt to know of the previous issues between Mrs K and that firm, so I dont think it did anything wrong here. It declined to provide an 
assessment in any event. 
I understand the matter was important to Mrs K and there was an impending time limit for 
her to act, however I think Aviva handled the insurance claim in a timely manner. I 
appreciate Mrs K wanted responses to her emails quickly, but Aviva was entitled to deal with 
her correspondence in line with its normal processes.
Overall, I dont think Aviva acted outside the terms of the policy or unfairly. So, I wont be 
asking it to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ks complaint against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Alison Gore
Ombudsman