DRN-4110712
Complaint
Mr D has complained about a personal loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable and was therefore irresponsibly 
lent to him.
Background
118 118 Money provided Mr D with a loan for £3,000.00 in March 2019. This loan had an 
APR of 99.9% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£5,694.96, including interest, fees and charges of £2,694.98, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just under £240. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ds complaint and he thought that 118 118 Money 
shouldnt have provided Mr D with his loan. So he thought Mr Ds complaint should be 
upheld. 118 118 Money didnt respond. So the case was passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision as per the next step of our dispute resolution process. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint. Having 
carefully considered everything Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why in a 
little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr D could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Im concerned that 118 118 Moneys own checks showed that Mr D was already significantly 
indebted and a significant proportion of his monthly income was already being taken up by 
repayments to existing credit commitments. Furthermore, the credit checks also showed that 
Mr D had an history of taking out payday type loans for an extended period in the leadup to 
this application. 
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr D has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ds financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 118 
118 Money, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ds version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ds existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the repayments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown 118 118 Money that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr D. As 118 118 
Money provided Mr D with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly 
and reasonably towards him. 
Mr D ended up paying interest, fees and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided 
with. So Im satisfied that Mr D lost out because of what 118 118 Money did wrong and that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Mr D
Having thought about everything, 118 118 Money should put things right for Mr D by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Mr D paid on his loan;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Mr D to the date of settlement
removing any adverse information it recorded about this loan from Mr Ds credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money to take off tax from this interest. 118 118 
Money must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ds complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman