DRN-2451158
The complaint
Miss S complains about the service she received from BUPA Insurance Limited under her 
private health insurance.
What happened
Miss S has private health insurance with BUPA. Shes very unhappy with the service she 
received from BUPA on several occasions. In summary she says:
(a) In March 2019 she missed a policy premium direct debit payment due to her 
banks error. She contacted BUPA and asked about making the payment on her 
credit card. Miss S complains that BUPAs representative couldnt answer her 
questions about the issue and arranged for someone else to call back. Miss S says 
BUPA should have been able to answer her queries immediately and she was 
concerned about the impact the missed premium would have on her cover and her 
credit rating.
(b) In April 2019 she asked BUPA if she could change the date her premiums were 
collected to 12 days later. BUPA arranged the change but didnt tell Miss S there 
would be a £58.26 additional premium for the extra period of cover. Miss S says 
when she complained BUPA waived the additional premium but didnt action it 
correctly which led to her policy being suspended. Miss S only found out about the 
suspension when she called BUPA to discuss a new claim.
(c) In May 2019 she asked BUPA if it would pay a claim for her to see a breast 
consultant if she repaid BUPA shortly after. She wanted that option so that the 
hospital had the reassurance the private consultation would be paid and she would 
repay if she could to try not to increase her policy premiums. BUPA said that option 
wasnt possible. Miss S is unhappy that BUPA doesnt offer that option. She called 
BUPA again on 23 May 2019 and was told that if she made a claim and she later 
repaid the bill BUPA would write off the claim so there would be no impact on her 
future policy premiums. Miss S says she asked BUPA to send her a confirmation 
email which it didnt provide until three weeks later. BUPA later wrote to her saying it 
had given her wrong information and that option wasnt available.
(d) She then contacted BUPA to get a claim reference to see a gastroenterology 
consultant under the policy. She says during the call she told BUPA that if all went 
well with the consultation she wouldnt claim on the policy. After the consultation 
Miss S says she called BUPA to tell it she would pay for the consultation but BUPA 
told her it had already paid. Miss S asked BUPA to stop the payment but it didnt. 
Miss S is unhappy about how quickly BUPA paid the claim. She thinks it paid the 
claim to increase her premiums to a level she cant afford so she would have to end 
the policy.
(e) She called BUPA again to see if it would agree for her to repay the cost of the 
gastroenterology claim so her future policy premiums wouldnt be affected. She says 
BUPA told her she could do so through the policys recoup scheme. She asked if 
that was a recent change to the policy, BUPA said it wasnt but Miss S hasnt 
received any further information from BUPA.
(f) BUPA didnt explain why it declined her claim to see a dietician. 
BUPA considered Miss S complaints that she raised with it as outlined in (a) to (c) above 
and accepted there were some problems with its service. BUPA apologised and paid Miss S 
overall £300 compensation for her distress and inconvenience.
Miss S complained to us that £300 doesnt reflect how stressed and upset shes been by 
BUPAs service. She wants more compensation.
Our investigator thought BUPAs £300 compensation payment and waiver of the additional 
premium was fair. He said we couldnt consider Miss S concerns about BUPAs decline of 
her claim to see a dietician as part of this complaint as she hadnt yet complained directly to 
BUPA about the issue.
Miss S disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. She said BUPA ignored her 
instructions not to pay the gastroenterology claim which led to higher premiums she cant 
afford and shes unable to get alternative insurance with full cover due to its mistakes. She 
also said BUPA hadnt guaranteed that it had put procedures in place to ensure she could be 
more confident in its service.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I couldnt consider all parts of Miss S complaint in this 
decision and that for the issues I could consider BUPAs payment of £300 compensation 
was reasonable and waiving the additional premium was fair. I said:
Our investigator correctly explained why we cant consider Miss S concerns about BUPAs 
decline of her claim to see a dietician as part of this complaint.
But I also think I cant consider the concerns Miss S raised in points (d) and (e) as part of 
this complaint as she hasnt first complained to BUPA about those matters so its not been 
able to issue a final response letter. Our investigator asked for BUPAs comments on issue 
(e) which weve sent to Miss S and shes responded in detail. I cant see weve asked for 
BUPAs comment on issue (d). Those are important issues for Miss S and I think its fair to 
both parties if those issues are treated as a separate complaint. I intend to ask our 
investigator to set up a separate complaint for issues (d) and (e).
My decision is about the matters (a) to (c) above. I need to decide whether BUPAs payment 
of £300 compensation and waiving the additional premium was fair and reasonable, and 
I think it was. Im intending to not uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Our investigator explained how the cover date changed when Miss S changed her premium 
payment date. Although BUPA acted reasonably in wanting to charge an additional pro-rata 
premium it should have told Miss S there would be an additional premium. BUPA accepts it 
should have done so. It waived the additional payment and paid Miss S £50 compensation 
for her trouble and upset, which I think is fair.
Miss S was understandably shocked and upset when BUPA told her that her policy has been 
suspended. Thats particularly so when she was only told about the suspension when she
called BUPA to make a claim to see a consultant the next day about a matter she was very 
worried about.BUPA accepts the policy was marked as suspended due to its administration error when 
waiving the additional premium. It paid Miss S a further £100 compensation to apologise for 
her stress. I think that was a fair amount as importantly BUPA agreed to authorise the 
consultation while it investigated the suspension so Miss S didnt need to delay her 
consultation. I think BUPA reasonably tried to minimise the inconvenience to Miss S.
I think BUPA gave Miss S very poor service in giving her conflicting information about 
whether she could claim then repay the cost to BUPA.
BUPA accepts that in a May 2019 call its representative wrongly told Miss S that her 
repaying BUPA to write off a claim so not to affect her premiums was an option. In July 2019 
it told Miss S that it didnt offer, and never had offered, that option and gave her clear written 
advice about what her correct options were  claim under the policy, pay the treatment 
herself or use the NHS.
BUPAs mistake greatly upset Miss S. Her expectations were wrongly raised and that could 
have been easily avoided. The error was also part of a series of errors which added to 
Miss S concerns about BUPA. BUPA paid Miss S additional £150 compensation meaning 
the overall compensation was £300.
Ive no evidence that Miss S was disadvantaged by BUPA giving wrong advice in the 
May 2019 call as Ive no evidence that Miss S made any claim reasonably thinking that it 
wouldnt affect her policy premium. But that issue may be relevant for consideration in the 
complaint Miss S makes about the separate issues I havent been able to consider as part of 
this complaint.
While Miss S was frustrated that BUPA had to call her back about the missed premium 
I think BUPA acted reasonably in wanting its correct department to speak to Miss S about 
the matter. BUPA called back Miss S the following day and was able to answer her concerns 
in a reasonable timescale.
Miss S has detailed how she would like BUPA to change its processes. She also wants 
BUPA to offer the option of it paying a claim and then a policyholder being able to repay it 
the money so that the claim is written off. I dont have statutory authority to tell a business 
how it must change its business procedures or the types of insurance options it must offer  
thats a commercial decision for a business to make.
I note BUPA told Miss S it would consider her feedback about sending text messages if 
there were payment issues on a policy. Its also given feedback to its representatives who 
gave poor service which is reasonable action for it to take.
On the evidence I have within the issues Im considering for this complaint I think £300 was 
reasonable compensation for Miss S distress and inconvenience and BUPA waiving the 
additional £58.26 premium was fair. As part of this complaint Ive no evidence that BUPAs 
errors led to Miss S policy premiums increasing.
Miss S says BUPAs errors have led to her having to keep the policy as she cant get full 
cover with an alternative insurer. But many policies dont cover medical conditions for which 
a consumer has already had symptoms/advice/treatment whether or not they have 
previously claimed for the condition on another policy. Ive no evidence to show BUPAs 
mistakes did lead to Miss S having to stay with its policy for full cover.
BUPA paid Miss S the £300 compensation although I understand she may not have cashed 
all the cheques. If she still hasnt done so and the cheques are out of date Miss S should 
contact BUPA direct so she receives the £300 compensation its already offered.Responses to my provisional decision
BUPA didnt respond. Miss S didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary she 
said: she had complained to BUPA about all the issues and shes upset that I had said she  
hadnt; she was concerned we hadnt see all the information she sent to us, for example in 
my decision I hadnt referred to any of the names she provided; when BUPA wrongly told her 
that her policy had been cancelled she was so upset and frustrated with BUPA she had a 
migraine so had to change the appointment with her preferred hospital to another hospital a 
few days later.
Miss S also gave further information about her conversation with BUPA about not paying for 
the gastroenterology claim. She also said that since she complained to us BUPA no longer  
gave her free insurance cover for a month, which it used to do.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Miss S responses in full. Im sorry she was upset by my provisional decision but I, 
and the investigator, havent seen any evidence that show Miss S complained to BUPA 
about her gastroenterology claim, the recoup scheme or the dietician claim. Miss S 
referenced these complaints in her file she sent to us, but I havent seen any evidence that 
she raised them as complaints with BUPA. Theres no evidence in the information BUPA 
sent that it received complaints about those matters. I asked our investigator to send Miss S  
details of BUPAs final response letters which weve seen and there are three, one each 
responding to issues (a), (b) and (c) above. 
So for the reasons Ive given above Im satisfied that the issues Miss S raised with us about 
her gastroenterology claim, the recoup scheme, as well as her dietician claim, should be 
considered as a separate complaint. Our investigator will be in contact with Miss S about 
that. 
I dont refer to individual names in decisions to help preserve the complainants anonymity 
and Miss S will see that I havent referred to her by name. BUPAs staff are BUPAs 
representatives so I wouldnt refer to them by their individual names. 
Im aware that when Miss S was told her policy was suspended she was shocked and upset 
and cancelled a hospital appointment. I note she had a migraine. But, as I said in my 
provisional decision, BUPA agreed to authorise the consultation while it investigated the 
policy suspension. So BUPA reasonably tried to minimise the inconvenience to Miss S. 
Although she didnt need to delay her consultation I do understand that having a migraine 
would have made it difficult for her to attend. That doesnt alter that I think BUPA paid Miss S 
reasonable compensation for her upset and inconvenience for its poor service around that 
issue.
If Miss S wishes to complain that BUPA no longer gives her free cover for her insurance for 
a month thats a separate complaint that shell first need to raise with BUPA.
For the reasons in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold the complaint for 
the issues (a) to (c) that Ive considered in this decision. I think BUPAs payment of £300 
compensation for Miss S distress and inconvenience for those issues was reasonable and 
BUPA waiving the additional £58.26 premium was fair. As part of this complaint Ive no evidence that BUPAs errors led to Miss S policy premiums increasing and Ive no evidence 
to show BUPAs mistakes led to Miss S having to stay with its policy for full cover.
I explained in my provisional findings that I dont have statutory authority to tell a business 
how it must change its business procedures or tell it the types of insurance options it must 
offer.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint about the issues Ive considered in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman