DRN-3540155
The complaint
Mr G complains that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (CFS), trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance, made mistakes when establishing pay plans for him.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to hear about Mr Gs ill health and the stress this matter has caused him. Im 
thankful to him for being so open about those issues, but Im afraid that having reviewed all 
of the information, I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired his car under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it. 
The August 2018 payment plan arrangements
In the phone call Mr G had with CFS in August 2018 whilst Mr G has explained he wanted 
the payments towards his plan be taken from his Nationwide account, he didnt give CFS 
those account details. Instead he provided account details for the direct debit payments to 
be taken from his Nat West account. 
CFS have explained that they use the Automated Direct Debit Instruction Service (AUDDIS) 
to do that. Their account notes show the AUDDIS transactions and demonstrate that a direct 
debit request was set up from Mr Gs Nat West account as requested, that day.
The following day the AUDDIS notes show a direct debit instruction from Mr Gs Nationwide 
account was cancelled. Im persuaded that was because Mr G had previously changed the 
direct debit for his usual payments so that they were being taken from Nationwide. Ive seen 
a statement from Mr Gs Nationwide account that shows a direct debit for £148.61 was 
established in August and returned later that month. £148.61 was the full monthly instalment 
and not the £74.31 new payment arrangement Mr G had now agreed. As Mr G had told CFS 
to take that new payment from his Nat West account I cant see that CFS made an error.
The 2019 payment plan
In August 2019 Mr G agreed a payment plan of £1 per month towards the balance of his 
finance agreement. The call record shows that Mr G did provide the correct account details 
for the direct debit to be established but it seems CFS didnt set that payment up.
I think this was a mistake by CFS and I also think they should have provided better support 
and advice than they did when Mr G contacted them to explain the payments werent being 
taken. The onus was on CFS to resolve the issue and that didnt require Mr G to contact his 
bank or write them a letter. The letter CFS sent to Mr G explained that there was a zero 
balance on the account and that thered been a policy write off. Whilst I understand that it 
wasnt CFSs intention to write off the balance on the account I think the letter was 
misleading and I can understand it would have been very frustrating for Mr G to 
subsequently discover CFSs real intentions.
The repayments werent large, and the financial impact has therefore been very minimal, but 
I think the mistake would have caused significant distress for Mr G. He was clearly anxious 
about the situation and needed to feel assured that at least some action was in place to 
manage the debt. I can understand that his anxiousness would have been heightened when 
he discovered that wasnt the case and that may have impacted on his conditions. I think 
CFS should therefore pay Mr G some compensation in respect of the distress their actions 
caused him and having considered the circumstances of this complaint I would agree with 
the investigator that £800 is sufficient.
 
Putting things right
CFS should put things right in the way Ive set out above and they should also contact Mr G 
and agree an affordable repayment plan for the outstanding balance.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited to:
Pay Mr G £800 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G for the balance on the account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman