DRN-4450783
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc (DG) 
under a protection policy for his shower.
References to DG include their agents who administer policies and carry out services under 
policies.
This decision covers issues raised in Mr Ss complaint to this Service in May 2023. Mr S 
previously complained about how DG handled a claim for his shower under his protection 
policy in 2020, the subject of a separate decision by this Service in 2021. This decision takes 
account of that decision as far as its relevant to the issues raised in this complaint.
Your text here
What happened
Mr S had a protection policy with DG covering repairs to his shower due to breakdown (after 
the end of the manufacturers guarantee period) and accidental damage. The policy was 
taken out in April 2019 and renewed annually, up to and including April 2023. When the 
policy was taken out it was set up (based on what Mr S told DG) as being for a power 
shower. At the time of Mr Ss previous complaint, it was established the shower was a digital 
mixer shower. This meant the shower was covered by a five-year manufacturer guarantee  
whereas standard power showers were only covered by a one-year manufacturer guarantee.
Shortly after the April 2023 renewal, the shower stopped working, so he tried to raise a 
repair request through DGs online repair portal. However, he was referred to the 
manufacturer as they didnt use DGs booking system (and the shower was still under the 
five-year manufacturer guarantee). However, Mr S was then asked to progress his repair 
request by phone and told hed have to pay a deposit of £80 before an engineer would 
attend to inspect the shower. If covered by the manufacturer guarantee, the deposit would 
be refunded. However, due to his circumstances (including disability) Mr S didnt have a 
debit or credit card. So he wasnt able to book a repair.
Unhappy at what had happened, Mr S complained to DG. He noted, due to his disability, he 
wasnt able to make or receive phone calls easily, or not at all. Hed tried to raise a claim 
through the online portal, but hed got to a stage in the process where the only way to 
progress was by phone. He wanted to know why that was necessary. And the web chat 
function wasnt available or displayed. On a previous occasion hed been asked to make a 
payment through debit or credit card before an engineer would be sent out. Mr S didnt have 
a card to make such a payment. He said this requirement wasnt made clear in information 
provided when he took out the policy. This created a barrier to him accessing the policy. He 
thought the policy wasnt accurately described as one with no deposit/holding payment. He 
asked DG to cancel the policy from its inception  once DG had agreed and refunded all 
premiums paid under the policy.
DG upheld the complaint. In their final response they said theyd tried to contact Mr S by 
phone to discuss the complaint but, due to the nature of his disability, he requested 
communication to be sent by email. DG apologised for Mr S being unable to use their online 
portal to register a repair claim, as it directed him to contact DG by Phone  something Mr 
Ss disability made difficult. DG said the redirection could be due to an error in Mr Ss online 
account, which theyd asked their service desk to rectify. DG noted Mr Ss issue of being 
asked to make an upfront payment before an engineer would attend but said they (DG) 
didnt require such payments for shower repairs, so it may have been Mr S had been 
contacted by a spam company. DG offered to either book a repair for the shower (if Mr S 
agreed) or cancel the policy and refund the premiums as he requested.
Mr S responded to DGs final response, raising several issues. While happy for DG to cancel 
and fully refund the policy premiums as theyd offered (once his further issues had been 
resolved), he didnt think the response addressed all the issues hed raised. On the request 
for an upfront payment before an engineer would attend, Mr S said this was from the shower 
manufacturer. The payment would be refunded if the engineer decided the damage was 
down to a manufacturer fault (or accidental damage). He thought the practice had been in 
place for some time, but he hadnt been made aware of it when he took out the policy. As 
payment of the charge could only be made via a debit or credit card, it meant it wasnt 
accessible to policyholders who didnt have a debit or credit card. He thought he was paying 
for a policy that wasnt accessible to him, had been mis-sold and required a payment before 
an engineer would visit. 
Mr S was also unhappy at DG contacting him by phone to discuss the complaint. While he 
hadnt stated explicitly that he didnt want to be contacted by phone, he felt an email hed 
sent raising his complaint should have made DG aware that phone calls were difficult for him 
to deal with. As a result, the call from DG had caused him unnecessary distress. In addition 
to the cancellation and full refund of the policy, Mr S felt DG should pay compensation to 
resolve the further issues hed raised about his complaint.
Mr S didnt receive a response from DG, so he complained to this service. Hed had to get 
the shower repaired, and hed suffered distress and inconvenience from what had 
happened. He wanted his complaint to be resolved by: DG providing a full refund of his 
policy; compensation for DG failing to make reasonable adjustment by calling him despite 
his clear request for DG not to call him because of his disability; compensation for mis-
selling the policy and/or failing to provide information relating to the charge/deposit required 
by the shower manufacturer before they would send out an engineer (had he been aware he 
wouldnt have taken out the policy); and compensation for the policy not being accessible for 
a disabled person.
Our investigator issued an initial view in which they didnt uphold the complaint. She thought 
DGs offer was fair and reasonable. She didnt think the policy had been mis-sold and Mr S 
should have been reasonably aware that as his shower was under a five-year manufacturer 
guarantee, he should approach them first were there any problems with the shower. And the 
£80 payment was a pre-authorisation payment, a pending charge in case any issue with the 
shower wasnt covered under the guarantee. Had the issue been accidental damage, the 
claim (for a repair) would have been referred back to DG, with no charge to Mr S.
While she wasnt able to consider whether DG had breached the Equality Act 2010, she 
didnt think there had been any direct discrimination towards Mr S. As the manufacturer 
didnt use DG systems, she couldnt hold DG responsible for the problems Mr S had trying to 
arrange a repair through the manufacturer itself. DGs offer to either arrange the repair for Mr 
S, with the manufacturer or refund the premiums paid under the policy and cancel it, was fair 
and reasonable and, in offering to arrange a repair with the manufacturer directly, they had 
made a reasonable adjustment to recognise Mr Ss circumstances.
She agreed it would have been upsetting to Mr S for DG calling him when hed asked them 
not to. But the call was made by the complaint handler, about the complaint, and not the claim. And subsequently the final response was sent by email. The investigator didnt think 
DG made any errors in relation to the claim, so she didnt think it reasonable to ask DG to 
pay compensation.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators initial view. Hed told DG not to call him because of his 
disability but theyd not carried out his request. He set out the impact the call had on him, 
given his disability and didnt think the investigator had given enough consideration to this 
aspect. He requested compensation for the impact and stress of being called. He maintained 
hed never been provided with the policy details or been given the right to cancel the policy. 
Our investigator considered the points raised by Mr S and issued a second view, in which 
she concluded DG hadnt acted fairly. She thought that while DG called Mr S once as part of 
their seeking a resolution to his complaint, and could be considered minor and isolated, it 
had a significant impact on him. She thought DG should pay Mr S £100 in compensation for 
the upset caused by calling him when hed asked them not to. She still thought DGs offer to 
either arrange the repair for Mr S, or refund the premiums paid under the policy and cancel 
it, was fair and reasonable.
Mr S accepted the investigators second view, but DG disagreed and requested an 
Ombudsman review the complaint. They said the call lasted 33 seconds and the call handler 
introduced themselves. At which point, Mr S said he would prefer communication via email, 
to which the call handler agreed and thanked Mr S for his time before ending the call. They 
didnt think this would have caused Mr S distress. And while Mr S had previously indicated 
he didnt want to be contacted by phone, it wasnt specifically mentioned in his complaint to 
DG, so they hadnt had the opportunity to consider it.
And they would have only applied his previous requests to sales calls. Where there was a 
complaint, DG would call a consumer unless specifically asked not to. This was standard 
practice which DG considered best practice in handling complaints, to better understand a 
consumers concerns.
DG also referred to Mr Ss previous complaint to this Service, the subject of a separate 
decision, with similar elements of complaint. 
In my findings, I noted DGs offer to arrange a repair appointment for Mr S with the 
manufacturer. I thought this a reasonable offer in the circumstances, given Mr Ss disability, 
and DG sought to respond to Mr Ss circumstances in a fair way to provide him with access 
to a repair service. 
On the issue of the £80 holding charge, as the manufacturer didnt operate through DG 
systems, I concluded it wouldnt be reasonable to hold DG responsible for the way they 
operate, including the requirement for an £80 holding charge. The charge would only be 
applied if a visit indicated an issue not covered under the manufacturer guarantee. Mr S 
should reasonably have been aware of this from his previous complaint to this Service. So, I 
concluded there wasnt any action for DG to take in respect of this issue.
On the issue of DG contacting Mr S by phone as part of their response to his complaint, I 
noted, when making his complaint to DG, Mr S said he was severely disabled and unable to 
make/conduct phone calls easily or not at all. I thought this would have made it clear to DG. 
However, looking at the circumstances and listening to the call in question, I think it was a 
genuine oversight by the DG complaint handler rather than deliberately ignoring Mr Ss 
request. The call was 33 seconds long, polite and the complaint handler acknowledged Mr 
Ss request for communication through email and acted immediately to end the call.I acknowledged what Mr S has said about the effect it had on him, but concluded it isnt the 
role of this Service to punish a business when they make an honest mistake, as I thought 
was the case. And DG responded immediately by emailing Mr S, as hed requested. So, I 
didnt propose to ask DG to take any further action.
As I reached different conclusions to those of our investigator, I issued a provisional decision 
to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Id first want to acknowledge what Mr S has told us about his significant disability and the 
impact it has on him, particularly the difficulties he has with making or receiving phone calls 
 including the arrangements he has to make to make or receive calls. Ive borne this in 
mind when deciding, as is my role here, whether DG have acted fairly towards Mr S.
There are several issues in Mr Ss complaint. These include, firstly, his inability to book a 
repair to his shower using the online DG portal. Secondly, the requirement for an £80 charge 
before an engineer visit can be arranged (given Mr S doesnt have a debit or credit card). 
Thirdly, that the policy was mis-sold to him, and DG failed to provide information relating to 
the charge/deposit required by the shower manufacturer - had he been aware he wouldnt 
have taken out the policy. Fourthly, DG failed to make a reasonable adjustment by calling 
him despite his clear request for them not to call him because of his disability. Fifthly, the 
policy is not accessible for a disabled person.
Ive first considered the issues of whether the policy was mis-sold to Mr S when he took it 
out, and he hadnt been provided with policy documentation or information on the £80 
charge required before an engineer visit would be arranged.
In considering this issue, Ive noted Mr Ss previous complaint to this Service and the 
Ombudsman decision issued in May 2021 (to which DG have referred). Ive looked at the 
decision as well as the evidence and information relating to the complaint. Ive also looked at 
the evidence and information provided in the current complaint. Having done so, Ive 
concluded Mr S wasnt mis-sold the policy (Mr Ss third issue). The earlier decision 
concluded Mr S was provided with a welcome letter and documents, correctly addressed to 
him. Ive not seen anything to question this aspect of the decision.
And Mr S should be aware, from his previous complaint and decision of this Service, that his 
shower was a digital mixer shower, which would be covered by the manufacturers five-year 
guarantee. The DG policy covers the shower for accidental damage and specifically 
excludes damage covered under a manufacturers guarantee or warranty. So, Mr S should 
reasonably have been aware that the issue with his shower would be first considered under 
the manufacturers guarantee. 
While Mr S is unhappy his attempt to book a repair through the DG portal wasnt successful 
(his first issue), Ive noted DGs offer to arrange a repair appointment for him with the 
manufacturer. I think this a reasonable offer in the circumstances, given Mr Ss disability, 
and DG have sought to respond to Mr Ss circumstances in a fair way to provide him with 
access to a repair service (through the manufacturer). 
Turning to the second issue. as the manufacturer doesnt operate through DG systems, it 
wouldnt be reasonable to hold DG responsible for the way they operate  this would include 
the requirement for an £80 holding charge before an engineer appointment can be booked. 
The charge would only be applied if the visit indicated an issue that wasnt covered under 
the manufacturer guarantee. If the visit indicated a fault covered, the holding charge wouldnt 
be applied. Mr S should reasonably have been aware of this from his previous complaint to 
this Service. So, Ive concluded there isnt any action for DG to take in respect of this issue.This leaves the fourth issue, DG contacting Mr S by phone as part of their response to his 
complaint. Mr S says he made it clear in his complaint to DG he was severely disabled and 
unable to make/conduct phone calls easily or not at all. DG refer to the length of the call and 
its content. They dont think this would have caused Mr S distress. And while Mr S had 
previously indicated he didnt want to be contacted by phone, it wasnt specifically mentioned 
in his complaint to DG, so they hadnt had the opportunity to consider it. And they only 
applied his previous requests to sales calls. DG refer to their standard practice with 
complaints to contact a consumer unless specifically asked not to. They consider this best 
practice, to better understand a consumers concerns.
Ive thought about this issue carefully. Ive noted, when making his complaint to DG, Mr S 
says he is severely disabled and unable to make/conduct phone calls easily or not at all. I 
think this would have made it clear to DG. However, looking at the circumstances and 
listening to the call in question, I think it was a genuine oversight by the DG complaint 
handler rather than deliberately ignoring Mr Ss request. The call is 33 seconds long, the DG 
complaints handler introduces themselves and says theyd like to discuss Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S says he prefers communication by email, at which point the complaint handler 
acknowledges his request, thanks him for his time and ends the call. The call is polite, and 
the complaint handler acknowledges Mr Ss request and acts immediately to end the call.
While I acknowledge what Mr S has said about the effect it had on him, it isnt the role of this 
Service to punish a business when theyve made an honest mistake, as I think is the case 
here. And DG responded immediately by emailing Mr S, as hed requested. So, I dont 
propose to ask DG to take any further action.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive considered DGs offer to resolve the complaint. 
Theyve offered to either book a repair with the manufacturer or to cancel the policy and 
refund the premiums paid (from its inception). Mr S has indicated his willingness to accept 
the latter option. Looking at the case as a whole, I think DGs offer to cancel the policy and 
refund the premiums from inception is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. From what 
DG have said, theyve already cancelled the policy and not collected any further premiums 
through the direct debit mandate, pending the outcome of Mr Ss complaint to this Service. 
That being the case, DG should now refund the premiums paid from the policy inception to 
the date of the cancellation.
Ive also considered the points made by Mr S about DG failing to make reasonable 
adjustment by calling him despite his request for them not to call him because of his 
disability, as well as the policy not being accessible for a disabled person. So, DG acted in 
breach of the Equality Act 2010. 
As Ive set out above, Ive concluded the issue of DG calling him when hed asked them not 
to was an honest mistake which they immediately rectified by ending the call and then 
emailing him.  
Ive also considered the issue of the policy not being accessible for a disabled person. But, 
for the reasons Ive set out above, I think DG have acted fairly and reasonably by offering to 
book a repair with the manufacturer.
Ive taken the Act into account, as it is relevant law, but my role here is to decide the 
complaint on whether DG have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr S. Its not for me to 
make a legal finding about whether DG have breached the Act. That would be for a court to 
decide, should Mr S wish to pursue the point. 
My provisional decisionFor the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in 
part. I intend to require Domestic & General Insurance Plc to:
Refund the premiums paid under the policy from its inception to the date they 
cancelled the policy. 
Mr S responded to accept the provisional decision, asking for DG to refund the premiums 
paid under the policy from inception and requesting payment by cheque to his home 
address. He also asked for a statement from DG providing a breakdown of the amount.
DG responded to also accept the provisional decision but asked for clarification the decision 
be recorded in favour of DG, as they had offered to refund the premiums under the policy as 
part of their response to Mr Ss complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether DC have acted fairly towards Mr S.
As both Mr S and DG accepted my provisional decision, then my final decision remains 
unchanged from my provisional decision. On Mr Ss request for the means of payment and a 
breakdown, thats for DG to take up when making the refund of premiums.
On DGs point about the decision, the wording was made to ensure the decision is legally 
binding on DG under the relevant legislation and to require DG to put things right by 
refunding the premiums to Mr S. My final decision wording will be amended to simply refer to 
what action I require DG to take.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to:
Refund the premiums paid under the policy from its inception to the date they 
cancelled the policy.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman