DRN-3062891
The complaint
Mrs G complains that a car that was supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) plc, trading as Volvo Car Financial Services, wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new hybrid car was supplied to Mrs G under a conditional sale agreement with Volvo Car 
Financial Services that she signed in June 2020. She contacted the manufacturers 
assistance service about a month later because she was unable to unlock the car or remove 
its charging cable. She had further issues with unlocking, starting and charging the car so 
she complained to Volvo Car Financial Services in November 2020 and said that she wanted 
to reject the car. The car had been returned to the dealer for repairs but the faults continued 
and, when the car was returned to her again in December 2020, she says that the faults 
were still present and that she hasnt been able to use the car. 
Volvo Car Financial Services said that the dealer had been unable to replicate the fault and it 
asked for an independent inspection of the car to take place but said that Mrs G hadnt 
contacted the inspection company  so it didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs G wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that her complaint should be upheld. He said that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs G and he recommended that Volvo 
Car Financial Services should: end the agreement and collect the car; refund Mrs Gs 
deposit and payments made under the agreement, with interest; and pay her £750 for the 
distress and inconvenience that shed experienced.
Volvo Car Financial Services has agreed that Mrs G is entitled to reject the car but says that 
she should pay for her usage of it and that the compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience is excessive. Mrs G has asked for her complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. She says that she should receive more than £750 for the distress and 
inconvenience that shes been caused. She also says that shes hired replacement cars and 
was told that shed be reimbursed for the hire costs. She says that shes experiencing 
financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Volvo Car Financial Services, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs G - whether or not it 
was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including 
the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mrs G was a new car with a price of £40,719 and I 
consider that it was reasonable for her to expect that it would be free from even 
minor defects;
satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will also depend on a number of factors;
Mrs G has described the issues that she had with unlocking, starting and recharging 
the car between July and December 2020 and she says that when the car was then 
returned to her she didnt have a key-fob for it and couldnt access the car to check 
its mileage; and
Volvo Car Financial Services has now accepted that shes entitled to reject the car 
and I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mrs G because of the faults with it and that she should be able to reject the car.
Putting things right
I find that Volvo Car Financial Services should end the conditional sale agreement and 
arrange for the car to be collected from Mrs G  both at no cost to her. The agreement 
shows that Mrs G made an advance payment of £20,359.50 for the car. I find that it would be 
fair and reasonable for Volvo Car Financial Services to refund that advance payment to 
Mrs G with interest.
The issues with the car started about a month after the car was supplied to Mrs G and there 
have been ongoing issues with the car since then. The cars mileage when it was returned to 
the dealer in October 2020 was 1,784 and Ive not been provided with a more up-to-date 
mileage than that  but Mrs G says that shes not been able to use the car since it was 
returned to her in December 2020 as she doesnt have a key-fob for it and cant access the 
car to check its mileage. 
I consider that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs G and the 
available evidence shows that shes only had limited use from the car. Im not persuaded 
that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Mrs G to pay for 
any of the use that shes had from the car. I find that it would be fair and reasonable for 
Volvo Car Financial Services to refund to Mrs G all of the monthly payments that shes made 
under the conditional sale agreement, with interest. 
Mrs G has described the financial difficulties that shes experiencing  and I sympathise with 
her both for the issues that shes had with the car and those financial difficulties. If Volvo Car 
Financial Services has recorded any adverse information on her credit file relating to the 
conditional sale agreement, I find that it should remove that information.
Mrs G says that shes hired replacement cars and was told that shed be reimbursed for the 
hire costs. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that Mrs G was told that 
shed been reimbursed for those costs. Shed agreed to make monthly payments under the 
agreement of about £565  shes either not been paying those amounts or they will be 
refunded to her (with interest) and I consider that its fair and reasonable for her to use that 
money towards the hire costs that shes incurred. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Volvo Car Financial Services to also 
reimburse her for any of those hire costs.
These events have clearly caused considerable distress and inconvenience for Mrs G. She 
was supplied with a new car but had significant issues with it between July and December 
2020 and, when the car was returned to her in December 2020, the issues were still present and she says that shes not been able to use it since then. I agree with our investigator that 
the distress and inconvenience that shes been caused justifies compensation of £750 and 
Im not persuaded that Mrs G should receive more compensation than that for her distress 
and inconvenience. I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for 
Volvo Car Financial Services to also pay £750 to Mrs G to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience that shes been caused.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint and I order Santander Consumer (UK) plc, 
trading as Volvo Car Financial Services, to:
1. End the conditional sale agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from 
Mrs G  both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Mrs G the advance payment that she made for the car.
3. Refund to Mrs G the monthly payments that shes made under the conditional 
sale agreement.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each payment to the date of settlement.
5. Remove any adverse information about the conditional sale agreement that its 
recorded on Mrs Gs credit file.
6. Pay £750 to Mrs G to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that 
shes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Volvo Car Financial Services to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 4 above. Volvo Car Financial Services must give Mrs G a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman