DRN-2605362
The complaint
Mrs T complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) is holding her liable for cash machine 
withdrawals which she says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide a brief summary of events below.
In July 2020, Mrs T says her housemate informed her that her account was overdrawn.  She 
contacted HSBC about this and raised concerns about three cash machine withdrawals 
totalling £440, which she says she didnt make; nor did she authorise anyone else to do.  
HSBC initially refunded this amount to Mrs Ts account.  But, following its investigation, it 
re-debited it.  Mrs T complained about this and the fact HSBC allowed the withdrawals to 
happen, as she had insufficient funds in her account and no overdraft facility.
HSBC says Mrs T informed it that she was in hospital as an inpatient when the withdrawals 
occurred.  She said her debit card was at her house in her bedroom at the time, which her 
housemate wouldve had access to.  She also said she had previously disclosed her PIN to 
her housemate, so he could use her card to make purchases for her when she was in 
hospital on a different occasion.
HSBC says Mrs T breached the terms and conditions of her account by disclosing her PIN to 
her housemate.  It also concluded that the withdrawals were either made by Mrs T, or she 
authorised another to do so.  For these reasons, HSBC refused to refund £440 to her.
Unhappy with this response, Mrs T referred her complaint to this service.  
It should be noted that Mrs T contacted the police about this matter.  However, they 
concluded that based on the evidence and leads available, it was unlikely they would be able 
to identify those responsible, so the case was closed.  Mrs T also tried to obtain CCTV 
footage of where the withdrawals took place but, was unsuccessful.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt uphold it.  In summary, she 
thought Mrs T had given her housemate apparent authority to make the withdrawals.  She 
also thought that HSBC had acted correctly in allowing an unarranged overdraft on Mrs Ts 
account.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.  
I initially reached the same overall outcome as our investigator, but for slightly different 
reasons.  I came to the view, on balance, that it was more likely than not that Mrs T had 
authorised her housemate to make the withdrawals.  I shared my reasons for this with Mrs T 
and provided her with an opportunity to comment.  In response, Mrs T said, in summary, she 
had no knowledge of the withdrawals and didnt provide consent for them to be made.  She 
also questioned why CCTV footage was not considered as she requested.  
Now Mrs T has had a further opportunity to comment, I can proceed with making my 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Disputed withdrawals
The relevant regulations in this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 2017 
Regulations).  In short, they state that a payment service provider (in this case, HSBC) is 
generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  However, HSBC 
can hold Mrs T liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence suggests that its more 
likely than not that she made or otherwise authorised them.
Im satisfied from the technical evidence HSBC has provided that Mrs Ts genuine card was 
used and that the corresponding PIN was entered correctly for each of the three withdrawals 
concerned. 
These withdrawals were made when Mrs T was a hospital inpatient, which she has provided 
evidence to support.  So, on balance, Im satisfied Mrs T didnt make the withdrawals.  But, 
under the 2017 Regulations, Mrs T wouldnt have needed to make the withdrawals herself 
for them to be deemed authorised.  If the evidence, on balance, supports they were likely 
made with Mrs Ts consent: HSBC can hold her liable.
The person who made the withdrawals wouldve needed to be in possession of both Mrs Ts 
card and PIN.  Mrs T says she didnt give her card or disclose her PIN to anyone other than 
her housemate.  With that in mind, Ive considered whether a third party unknown to Mrs T 
couldve made the withdrawals.  Mrs T has described that at the time she lived in a shared 
house and that there were visitors, so I acknowledge the fact that someone couldve taken 
her card from her room whilst she was in hospital.  However, this doesnt explain how they 
wouldve known Mrs Ts PIN to be able to make the three withdrawals, as only she and her 
housemate were aware of it.
When our investigator questioned Mrs T about this, she provided a possible scenario.  In 
short, she said it mightve been the case that a third party took her card and forced her 
housemate to disclose her PIN against his will.  However, Im not persuaded this happened.  
I say this because according to Mrs T, her housemate has never suggested such a scenario 
occurred.  Further, I find it extremely unlikely that if it did, the third party would then take the 
risk of returning the card to Mrs Ts house, rather than disposing of it after making the 
withdrawals.
So, in my view, this only leaves Mrs Ts housemate as the possible person who made the 
withdrawals.  And what I have to consider is whether he did so with or without Mrs Ts 
consent.  To answer this, Ive taken the following factors into account.
First, Mrs T accepts she provided her housemate with her PIN and card to make purchases 
on her behalf during her first admission to hospital from 19 to 25 June 2020.  She says this 
was because she was very ill and hospital bound at the time.  With that in mind, I dont 
consider it unreasonable to suggest that she wouldve done the same thing again  when 
she was admitted to hospital for a second time from 28 June to 14 July 2020.  Im particularly 
persuaded by the fact that Mrs T didnt change her PIN after she was discharged from hospital on the first occasion; and that she left her card in her house when she was admitted 
on the second occasion.
Secondly, Ive considered the pattern of withdrawals and amounts involved.  Its common 
that an opportunistic fraudster  in this case Mrs Ts housemate  would carry out large 
withdrawals over a short period, to maximise gains before the account holder could notice 
and block their card.  However, that is not what has happened here.  Between the time 
Mrs T went into hospital on 28 June 2020, and when she contacted HSBC on 14 July 2020, 
there were only three withdrawals made (plus one attempted) on 3, 4 and 5 July 2020.  This 
means there were several days where no withdrawal attempts were made.  Further, some of 
the withdrawals were relatively small and for specific amounts  again, behaviour not 
consistent with that of an opportunistic fraudster.
Thirdly, I note that the three successful withdrawals and single attempted one, were made at 
cash machines Mrs T had used previously for undisputed withdrawals.  I consider it unlikely 
that Mrs Ts housemate wouldve taken the risk to use the same cash machines, return the 
card to the house and later inform her that her account was overdrawn  all without her 
consent.
I acknowledge Mrs T says she didnt authorise her housemate to make the withdrawals.  
However, taking all the above factors together, I consider its more likely than not that Mrs T 
did provide her housemate with consent so the withdrawals could be made.  So, Im satisfied 
that they were authorised by her.
CCTV
Mrs T has raised concerns about HSBC not seeking CCTV evidence to identify the person 
who made the withdrawals.  HSBC doesnt own the cash machines where the withdrawals 
were made, so I wouldnt expect it to seek CCTV evidence in this instance.  Generally, this 
would be for the police to do as part of their investigation; something which Mrs T says she 
was unable to obtain herself. 
In any event, Ive accepted that it was unlikely Mrs T physically made the withdrawals 
herself, as she was a hospital inpatient at the time.  But, as Ive explained above, this 
doesnt mean she didnt authorise another to make the withdrawals.  So, even if footage 
could be obtained to show someone other than Mrs T making the withdrawals, it wouldnt 
change the outcome of this complaint.  I say this because the question isnt whether Mrs T 
made the withdrawals, its whether she gave consent to another to make them on her behalf 
 and CCTV footage wouldnt assist in making that determination.
Unarranged overdraft
Mrs T has argued that HSBC shouldnt have allowed the withdrawals to happen as she had 
insufficient funds in her account at the time; and had no overdraft facility.  Under the 
overdraft section of the terms and conditions of Mrs Ts account, the following is stated, 
amongst other things:
Unarranged: where, without you asking in advance and in addition to any arranged 
overdraft, we let you borrow for a particular payment or to cover an amount weve taken out 
of your account (e.g. a charge). Well give you up to 31 days to repay the arranged overdraft, 
if weve allowed it for a particular payment.
Having considered the above, Im satisfied that HSBC had the discretion to allow the 
withdrawals to take place in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mrs Ts account.  
So, I dont consider it did anything wrong by allowing the withdrawals to be made.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman