DRN-3952032
The complaint
Company A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wouldnt reimburse the money 
they lost due to an authorised push payment scam. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to both parties and so I wont repeat it at length 
here. 
Briefly, as I understand it, in early 2020 the director of A, Mr D was cold contacted via email 
by someone claiming to be from Bank M, providing information about investment in shares. 
Following further discussions, Mr D agreed to invest in two corporate bonds. 
During the third week of March 2020, the company made a payment of £300,000, 
purportedly for the first bond, to a beneficiary account with a bank, which I will refer to as H. 
Then, between end of April and middle of May 2020, the company made multiple payments 
totalling £300,000 to a beneficiary account with an electronic money institution, which I will 
refer to as C. This was purportedly for the second bond. 
In August 2020, it came to light that these payments were made to a fraudster and the 
company was a victim to an elaborate investment scam. 
On being advised of the scam, NatWest contacted H and C. Most of the payment made to H 
could be recovered but unfortunately C reported that none of the payments made to its 
customer could be recovered.
A made a claim to NatWest under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (the CRM 
Code) for reimbursement of the money lost. NatWest initially said that the complaint wasnt 
covered by the CRM Code but on further representation from A, assessed the claim under 
the Code and agreed to reimburse 50% of the sum lost. This amounted to £152,529 (being 
50% of £600,000 less £294,942 recovered from H).  
Essentially, NatWest accepted that it could have done more to help prevent the fraud. The 
bank said that it spoke to A when three payments were made on 29 April, 3 May and 5 May 
2020. It said the calls concentrated on confirming whether the payments were authorised but 
it could have done more by providing warning about investment scams. However, the bank 
only offered to reimburse 50% of the loss. It said that in accordance with paragraph 
ALL2(2)(b) of the Code, which at the relevant time, essentially stated that if the customer did 
not meet their requisite level of care then each liable party will accept equal responsibility. 
A did not agree. They said that none of the exceptions under R(2)(1) of the CRM Code 
applied and so they should not be asked to share any loss. In particular, they said that they 
did carry out due diligence prior to the investments which went far beyond the requisite level 
of care. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that NatWest should pay 
£25,000 in addition to what the bank had already offered. They said, in summary:
It should first be decided whether A was a micro-enterprise at the relevant time. This is to 
decide whether the transactions are eligible to be considered under the CRM Code. 
A has said that their full-time equivalent staff number was 10, 10 and 8 for the years 
2017, 2018 and 2019 respectively. 
Under our rules, for an enterprise to be considered as a micro-enterprise, the staff 
number should be less than 10, and the turnover or annual balance sheet should not 
exceed €2 million. In this instance the staff number was below 10 in the reference year 
(which was 2019). However, we need to look at the numbers across three consecutive 
years including 2019 and consider the status of A for two consecutive years of these 
three years. 
In this instance, the staff number was 10 for 2017 and 2018, and as such exceeded the 
requisite threshold for a micro-enterprise for two consecutive years. Therefore, the 
company could not be considered a micro-enterprise. This in turn means that the 
relevant transactions arent eligible to be considered under the CRM Code. 
NatWest has accepted that it could have done more to help prevent the loss to A. So, it 
is fair that the bank compensates A. 
The bank however has said that both parties should accept equal responsibility in 
accordance with paragraph ALL2(2)(b) of the CRM Code. As the transactions arent 
covered under the CRM Code, the arguments about the provisions of the CRM Code 
isnt relevant here. However, it is fair to consider whether A acted reasonably in the 
circumstances or whether they could have done more to prevent their loss.
There was nothing suspicious about the email address from which the fraudsters emails 
came. Mr D says that when he spoke to the fraudster, he came across as well-spoken 
and credible financial markets professional. The fraudster then sent various documents 
which looked genuine. Mr D has also said that he called the genuine Bank M and 
confirmed that the bank did have employees with the names stated on the emails.  He 
also says that a leading consultancy firm that manages As pension trust carried out its 
own due diligence before investing the trust money into identical schemes. So, this gave 
some added comfort to A. 
Taking all of the above into account, at the outset, A did what they reasonably could in 
the circumstances.
However, by the time A made the second payment of £100,000 to C on 5 May 2020, 
there was enough going on that ought to have raised some concerns to A. Had A carried 
out some checks at the time, it is more likely that would have prompted them to carry out 
additional due diligence similar to what they did subsequently, and the fraud would have 
come to light. So, A missed an opportunity here to prevent their loss and therefore it is 
fair that they share the loss incurred, from this point onwards. 
As the bank has already offered 50% of the subsequent loss, it neednt do anything 
further in relation to those losses. However, it should refund a further £25,000 which 
would return the full first payment of £50,000 to A that was made prior to 5 May. NatWest accepted the investigators recommendation, but A didnt. They reiterated that they 
carried out all the necessary due diligence. They again pointed out to the fact that an 
external independent consultancy firm carried out their own due diligence and didnt find any 
concerns. They also didnt agree with the investigator that by the time A made the second 
payment of £100,000, there was enough going on to have raised some concerns to A.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions essentially for the same reasons. 
However, I think that a small adjustment is needed in relation to the proposed redress. I will 
explain why.
I am thankful to A for providing detailed submissions to support the complaint, all of which I 
have read and considered in their entirety. However, I trust that they will not take the fact 
that my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and that they are 
expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy.  The purpose of my decision is not to address 
every point raised in detail, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
I agree that As claim isnt eligible to be considered under the CRM Code, for the reasons 
given by the investigator. This in turn means that I dont have to specifically consider 
whether the provisions of the Code applied in this instance. That said, ultimately, I am 
required to decide the complaint by reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the case.
This is a sophisticated scam and I am sorry that A became a victim of it. NatWest has 
accepted that it could have done more to help prevent the loss to A. In particular, it has said 
that it could have done more when three of the payments were flagged on 29 April 2020, 3 
May 2020 and 5 May 2020. It appears that there was no payment on 3 May but there was 
one on 4 May. Perhaps the bank is referring to this. In any case, the bank has acknowledged 
that on the occasions it called A, it should have provided investment scams advice to A, but 
it focussed only on confirming the payments were genuine and authorised. 
After reviewing the submissions, I agree that the bank could have done more and so it is fair 
that it compensates A for the loss. The remaining question is whether A could have done 
more to prevent their loss.
I can see that at the outset, A did carry out some due diligence. Some of this appears to 
have been done by Mr D verbally over telephone. So, it is difficult for me to know for certain 
what exactly was discussed during those calls, but I have no reason to doubt Mr Ds 
testimony in this regard.
Mr D has said that an independent professional consultancy services firm that manages As 
pension trust carried out its own due diligence in relation to the trust, before investing the 
trust money into identical schemes. Though A is ultimately responsible for their own 
decisions, I accept that this would have given some comfort to A at the outset.
However, that is not the end of the matter. A was then asked to make the first payment to H. 
The beneficiarys name was different to that of Bank M. Mr D says he queried this with the 
fraudster, and he was told that the funds were being paid into intermediary accounts (owned 
and managed by Bank M). However, a quick search on the internet would have shown that there was an entity with a similar name to that of the beneficiary, but it was different to Bank 
M. 
Then, when it came to investing in the second bond, A was asked to send the money to 
an electronic money institution, to a completely different beneficiary account and name. Here 
again, the beneficiary name wasnt Bank M. A quick search would have shown that there is 
an entity with a similar name to that of the beneficary, but it is quite different to Bank M.
A went ahead and made a payment of £50,000. This payment was flagged by the bank and 
it contacted A to ensure that they are the ones who are making the payment. 
Then, on the morning of 4 May 2020, A received an email from the fraudster asking them to 
make a further payment of £100,000 to the same account, with the same beneficiarys name 
in relation to the same bond. The company proceeded to make the payment and it appears 
that this payment too was flagged by the bank and once again they contacted A to ensure 
that they are the ones who are making the payment. 
A then emailed the fraudster (thinking that they are emailing Bank M) to let them know that 
the payment was made as requested. The fraudster responded to say that they will update 
immediately on clearance. There was no mention of any problem with the account at that 
time. 
Despite the money being sent to the same account, the payment bounced. It is not clear 
why. 
Mr D says that he contacted the fraudster following this and was told that this was due to a 
[Bank M] Capital account name error. A was then asked to make the payment to the same 
account number again but with a slightly different beneficiary name. 
Whilst a payment instruction may have included the name of the beneficiary, the unique 
identifiers are usually sort code and the account number. So, the payment would 
automatically be received into the account so long as those details were correct. So, I think 
the reason for the payment not going through being attributed to an error in the name was 
somewhat unusual. It should also be noted that when the payments were made, 
Confirmation of Payee - the name checking service - wasnt in place. So, there was no check 
to the payee name this way as well.
But even if A wasnt to know about what constitutes unique identifiers, only the day before 
Bank M provided the previous details as correct. And later that day, after A made the 
payment and advised the bank of this, it responded to say that it would update A on 
clearance.
I consider that a big bank like Bank M wouldnt usually have issues with its account name 
and even if it did, ought to be aware of any such issue as soon as it arose. But it seemed 
that the bank wasnt aware of the problem until A contacted it. I consider this too unusual. 
Here again, a quick check would have shown that an entity exists matching the revised 
name but it is quite different not only to Bank M but also to the entity whose name was 
provided for the first payment.
I agree with the investigator that by this point there were enough indicators that ought to 
have caused some concern to A. They could no longer take what the fraudster said at the 
face value but ought to have paused and carried out additional checks. As previously noted, a quick check would have shown that was no discernible link between 
Bank M and any of the named beneficiaries to whom A was asked to make payment to. 
Moreover, when Mr D ultimately became suspicious, he called the genuine bank again, but 
this time asked to be put through to the member of staff with whom he thought he was 
communicating, and the fraud came to light. 
So, I consider that if A had done these before making the payment of £100,000, the fraud 
would have come to light sooner. I consider that A missed an opportunity here to prevent 
their loss and so it is fair that they share the loss incurred from this point onwards.
A has said that its pension trust also fell victim to the same scam and the trusts bank has 
reimbursed the amount in full. However, that does not automatically mean that is what 
should happen here too. What I consider to be fair outcome here depends on the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
My finding is that the complaint should be upheld but A should share the loss equally with 
NatWest from the time the payment of £100,000 was made on 5 May 2020.
Prior to this payment, A had transferred £350,000 to the fraudster. Of this, as I understand it, 
£294,942 was already recovered from Bank H. This leaves A with a loss of £55,058. 
NatWest should reimburse A this loss.
From and including the £100,000 payment on 5 May 2020, the total loss to A was £250,000. 
This loss should be shared equally between NatWest and A. Therefore, NatWest should 
reimburse A £125,000 in relation to these payments. 
Thus, NatWest should reimburse a total of £180,058 together with interest. Had the fraud not 
occurred, I consider it more likely that A would have reverted to keeping their money in cash 
or short-term investments with original maturities of three months or less, as they usually did. 
It is difficult to know now for certain what interest they would have earned on this sum had 
they done so. In the circumstances I consider it fair that NatWest pay interest on the above 
amount equivalent to the Bank of England base rate. 
Interest should be paid from the date of the respective transactions that make up the 
£180,058 to the date of settlement. As I understand it, NatWest has already paid £152,529 
to A in May 2021. So, interest on this sum should be calculated to the date of that payment. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. In full and final settlement of it, National 
Westminster Bank Plc should pay in total £180,058 (including the sum it has already paid), 
plus interest as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman