DRN-3735884
The complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, provided poor customer 
service, failed to provide a contactless card, and didnt provide a PINSentry.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr K, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Barclays have admitted they made errors here. They havent disputed that some mistakes 
were made during the calls Mr K had with their operatives and they agree that Mr K was 
without his PINSentry for a time and didnt have access to contactless services for about a 
month.
Ive read Mr Ks submissions and have considered whether the distress and inconvenience 
he was caused by Barclays mistakes merited greater compensation than the £150 Barclays 
offered him. I dont think it did.
I dont think it its necessary for me to listen to the calls Mr K had with Barclays. Thats 
because the issues hes referred to in his submissions arent disputed. 
Whilst I can understand that Mr Ks experiences would have been frustrating I can see that 
he was nevertheless able to use his card to make payments, although I understand the 
failure of the contactless system meant he had to input his PIN. I can also see he was able 
to use the contactless function after about a month and that he was provided with a 
PINSentry in a reasonable period of time, so I think the inconvenience caused wasnt 
considerable. Taking that and the customer service issues Mr K experienced trying to 
resolve matters, into account, I am persuaded that £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused is reasonable. Im not therefore asking Barclays to take any further 
action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman