DRN-3589732
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the way  Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, has handled 
her account. She would like her credit file amended.to reflect payments to her account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions
I appreciate Mrs M has been working hard to pay off her outstanding debt but doesnt 
feel her payments are reflected in her credit file. There doesnt seem to be any 
dispute that Mrs M has been making regular payments, or that the overall balance on 
her account is correct. There is an anomaly with payments not always being 
recorded on her bank statements but  Mrs M has told us she is in a debt arrangement 
scheme (DAS) and payments are made on her behalf .She has no  control over when 
payments are made. I think this probably explains the disparity in what is recorded on 
her statements. Its likely that, in some cases, payments have been made after 
statements have been issued. However, the important point is that the balance is 
reducing correctly.
In terms of Mrs Ms concern about the reporting on her credit file we have asked BoS 
to confirm our understanding of the credit information it provided us. It has  explained 
that payments received have been correctly recorded on the information it submitted 
to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) as late payment markers of six months. 
This is the maximum arrears that can recorded on a credit file. Payments have been 
marked as late as the payments received were less the minimum payments due 
when Mrs M entered her DAS.  BoSs explanation accords with the credit information 
it sent to us. I appreciate the credit file excerpt Mrs M sent us shows payments 
marked as missed but that isnt the information that BoS supplied to the CRAs. 
From what I have seen  BoS sent the correct information to the CRAs, the issue may 
be with how the CRAs show the data they receive. But I dont think BoS is at fault 
with any data it supplied so I cant reasonably ask it to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman