DRN-2497731
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Patricia Mary Richmond trading as Richmond Financial Planning 
provided unsuitable advice regarding her ISA and as a result she surrendered her 
investment at a loss.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will
explain why. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the 
informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. I do appreciate the impact 
this has had on Ms S. But in reaching my decision in this case, I have considered the case 
impartially and fairly, based on the available evidence. 
Ms S isnt complaining about the initial advice she received to invest or the suitability of 
the product. She confirms that she understood that the fund was not without risk. Ms 
S says she had reasonable knowledge of how the fund worked, having researched it 
online and after discussing it with her friend who had recommended the product to 
her
Ms S main complaint is that she says the advisor assured her that if in future the 
markets took a downturn, she would advise Ms S to surrender her investments. 
In February 2020 after hearing about the pandemic, she sought advice from RFP 
about her investment. And in an email to her RFP said her investment was in a very 
safe fund and continues to steadily increase. But on 9 March 2020, the market took 
a downturn and Ms S surrender her investment. She lost £13,000 on her original 
investment of £100,000.
I appreciate Ms S concerns that the market had taken a sudden downturn days after 
her seeking advice about her investment. But at the time Ms S sought advice the 
fund was performing and while the advisor did have access and knowledge of what 
was happening across the markets, due to the global pandemic the market did take a 
sudden downturn which. Ms S says she was provided assurances that she would be 
notified if this was anticipated. But it would be unreasonable to expect the advisor to 
predict the affect of an unprecedented global pandemic. So, I dont think it is fair and 
reasonable to have expected the advisor to have done anything more at this point.
I understand that because of the sudden downturn in the market Ms S lost 
confidence and decided to surrender her investment. But this was not upon receiving 
advice from RFP. 
I have reviewed the product literature Ms S would have seen prior to investing. 
Having done so I can see that in the key facts document explains that the fund aims 
to maximise growth over the medium to long term. I can also see that this is outlined 
in the suitability letter dated 10 November 2018. 
The very nature of the fund means it is likely to be exposed to market fluctuations 
and as such the investment carried an element of risk and that is why it is 
recommended for maximising growth over the medium to long term, which Ms S says 
she was aware of. 
Ms S was only invested in the fund for roughly 16 months. Prior to the global 
pandemic, and considering the information Ms S knew prior to investing, it is 
apparent, she was aware the fund objective for medium to long term period and 
because of this she wasnt reliant on the funds.
So, it isnt unreasonable to suggest, Ms S could have remained invested if she had 
wished to do so, giving the fund the opportunity to recover and in line with the overall 
objective of the fund. But Ms S chose to crystallise her losses and surrender the 
investment early during a market downturn despite the advisors recommendation to 
wait for the market to recover. So, it would be unreasonable to hold the RFP 
responsible for your decision to surrender your investment.
I note that during the email exchange between Ms S and RFP, the email did contain 
some factual inaccuracies, such as the rate being reviewed daily as well as quarterly. 
I totally appreciate Ms S concerns that these errors should not have been made and 
RFP ought to have taken reasonable care to ensure the information it provided 
during those exchanges were accurate. However, this in itself doesnt make the 
whole investment unsuitable.
So, with this in mind I cant say RFP acted unreasonably and as such I wont be 
asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman