DRN-3436403
The complaint
Via his voluntary sector representative, Mr M complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) mis-sold him a packaged bank account (PBA) in September 2016. His 
representative says the account fees should be refunded to him.
What happened
In September 2016 Mr Ms bank account was upgraded from a fee free one to a PBA for 
which he paid a monthly fee and got a range of benefits in return.
When his representative began to help Mr M with some financial issues, it noticed that he 
was paying for a PBA, which it said made no sense as his vulnerabilities meant that he didnt 
need any of the benefits it came with.
RBS looked into things, and said that Mr M upgraded his account online, so it hadnt had any 
involvement in selling it to him. Mr Ms representative didnt accept that, saying that Mr M 
didnt use the internet in that way, and asked an ombudsman to review the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr Ms representatives points about him not needing the benefits of this PBA are well made. 
I accept that his vulnerabilities shape his lifestyle in a way which makes it difficult to see how 
and why the benefits would have been attractive to him. The exception to that being the fee 
and interest free overdraft that came with this type of account.
On the balance of probabilities, I think the upgrade happened online. Ive explored this with 
RBS, given what Mr Ms representative has said about his inability to use the internet in that 
way. I can see that all of the management of Mr Ms account has been done online since 
2014  the records are clear. The remoteness of the sale means I cant hold RBS 
responsible for this situation. It isnt a question of a particular clause, limitation, or exclusion 
of one of the benefits not being made clear, meaning Mr M wasnt in a position to make a 
properly informed choice. It seems he had no use for any benefit other than the overdraft, 
but nonetheless chose to take the PBA, with the main benefits being set out to him online. 
(The savings that he received via the overdraft benefit wouldnt, in themselves, make the 
upgrade worth it just for that.)
Mr Ms representative has raised some concerns about his capacity to manage his finances, 
and risks around possible financial abuse or exploitation. Those concerns are certainly well 
meant, and might be well placed. Im not in a position to comment. But there is no evidence 
of anyone else having control of Mr Ms account at this point. Or to suggest that RBS had 
ever been informed about Mr Ms disabilities and vulnerabilities. If, for example, somebody 
looking after Mr Ms interests believed he shouldnt be able to manage his account online, or 
take certain decisions for himself, then that belief would need to be professionally supported 
and evidenced for RBS to take action on it. And as this sale happened without staff 
involvement, there also wasnt the opportunity for RBS to probe Mr Ms choice or offer any 
advice.
So whilst I have a huge amount of sympathy for Mr M, and the decision to upgrade certainly 
seems a bit of a puzzle, I cannot hold RBS responsible for it. I therefore dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and RBS doesnt need to do 
anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman