DRN-3767068
The complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays wont refund money he lost to an 
investment scam.
Mr W is being represented by a claims management company in his complaint.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so Ive only provided 
a summary of what happened and focused on giving my reasons for my decision.
Mr W says that in 2014, he lost £3,500 to an investment scheme. In 2020, he came across 
an advertisement for a company A who claimed to have helped victims of that scheme get 
their money back. Mr W engaged with A and was told he needed to set up an account with a 
bank in another jurisdiction in order to facilitate the refund. He was also asked to pay a 
refundable deposit and fees in cryptocurrency. 
Mr W used his Barclays debit card to send several payments to a cryptocurrency exchange, 
before sending on the converted cryptocurrency to the other bank. Unfortunately, hed fallen 
victim to a recovery scam. 
The following payments are relevant to this complaint 
Transaction Date Type Merchant Amount* 
28 June 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £2,522.17
28 June 2020 Credit BUYCOIN £2,359.62
1 July 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £254.06
1 July 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £2,425.44
1 July 2020 Credit BUYCOIN £2,425.44
1 July 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £2,425.56
3 July 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £415.17
3 July 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £3,914.18
3 July 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £4,547.77
9 July 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £1,053.17
11 July 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £1,033.30
24 July 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £1,568.73
3 September 2020 Debit card BUYCOIN £500.56
(*in pounds sterling including non-sterling fees if applicable)
Net loss £15,875.05
 
Barclays declined to refund the disputed transactions. It said it had spoken to Mr W on 
28 June, before the first disputed transaction, and warned him that he was likely being 
scammed. It encouraged him to do further research and discuss the situation with someone 
impartial. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint either. They spoke to Mr W and asked him if he 
discussed the matter with someone or carry out further research following an intervention by 
Barclays, and he said he didnt. The investigator wasnt persuaded that any further 
intervention from Barclays at a later stage would have made a difference. They also 
concluded it was unlikely recovery of funds by means of a chargeback would have 
succeeded. 
Mr Ws representative disagree with the investigators conclusions. Theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring the parties that although Ive only given an overview of this 
complaint, Ive read and considered everything in its entirety.
Under regulations, and in accordance with general banking terms and conditions, banks 
should execute an authorised payment instruction without undue delay. The starting position 
is that liability for an authorised payment rests with the payer, even if they were duped into 
doing so, for example as part of a scam. 
However, in accordance with the law, regulations and good industry practice, a bank has a 
duty to protect its customers against the risk of fraud and scams so far as is reasonably 
possible. If, in breach of that duty, a bank fails to act on information which ought reasonably 
to alert a prudent banker to potential fraud or financial crime, it might be liable for the losses 
incurred by its customers as a result. 
The very first payment that Mr W attempted to make to BuyCoin, a crypto exchange, 
triggered an alert on the banks fraud detection systems and his card was blocked. After 
several unsuccessful attempts, Mr W phoned Barclays to discuss the declined transactions. 
A recording of this call has been provided by Barclays which Ive listened to. It has also been 
shared with Mr Ws representative. 
Mr Ws representative assert that Barclayss intervention during the call didnt go far enough. 
They submit that it missed obvious red flags and didnt take sufficient action  it had been 
put on notice that fraud was occurring, yet it unblocked Mr Ws card and asked him to carry 
out more research. 
Ive carefully considered the arguments that Mr Ws representative have put forward. While I 
acknowledge that the agent could have questioned Mr W further  its easy to be critical with 
the benefit of hindsight  I find that the intervention was sufficient in the circumstances of this 
case. The bank isnt expected to play an amateur detective in such situations. I consider that 
the call served the purpose of identifying a fraud risk, providing a scam warning and 
education, and advising Mr W to carry out due diligence. Although Barclays had identified 
red flags, it still fell on Mr W to go away and utilise the information hed been given by the 
agent to check whether the opportunity hed been presented with was genuine.
Mr Ws representative has said Barclays should have kept Mr Ws card blocked for all 
transactions and asked him to go into branch for further questioning. Had it been the case 
that Mr W had dismissed the agents concerns and insisted on going ahead with the 
transaction, I might agree that restricting the account in the way thats been suggested and 
asking him to visit a branch may have been the way forward in safeguarding the account. 
But thats not what happened here. The agent gave Mr W a scam warning and provided education on how such scams worked. 
They shared an account of experiences of other customers in similar situations and 
suggested that Mr W held off until hed done further research online, spoken to someone 
impartial, directly contacted the bank in the other jurisdiction, etc. Mr W didnt disagree with 
any of these suggestions. In fact, at one point he told the agent that he also thought it was 
odd that hed been asked to deposit funds into the other bank in cryptocurrency.
So, given that Mr W was seemingly receptive of the agents scam education, engaged in the 
conversation, and more importantly agreed not to send the payment, I dont see why 
Barclays ought to have continued stopping him from using his card like his representative 
has argued. Its worth noting that Barclays did stop that payment from going ahead.
I can see that the investigator contacted Mr W directly and asked him if hed followed 
through with any of the suggestions Barclays had made during that call. He replied that he 
did look online, but when the scammer dangled a carrot he was caught up in the promise of 
the returns he would get. As we now know, Mr W made a payment in connection with this 
scam a few hours after his conversation with Barclays. Given it had already flagged a 
payment to that merchant a few hours earlier and had had a discussion with Mr W, Im not 
persuaded that it was unreasonable of Barclays to have executed his authorised instruction. 
Mr W had been given the opportunity to check that he was dealing with a legitimate firm. A 
few hours later, he was willing to go ahead.
Looking at the account statement, its arguable that the payment of £4,547.77 on 3 July 
ought to have flagged on the banks systems based on account activity. By that point, Mr W 
had already made two payments to the same merchant  one of which was just under 
£4,000. The increased frequency and large value should have prompted further discussion. 
I dont know what would have happened if Barclays had questioned Mr W at that time. In 
such situations, I must consider what I think would most likely have happened considering 
the evidence and wider circumstances of the case. This includes taking into account Mr Ws 
state of mind as well as actions that were taken by him.  
Having done so, Im not convinced that he would have stopped had there been another 
intervention. I say this because Mr W didnt pay heed to the banks warning only a few days 
earlier, suggesting that he was taken in by the scam. His reply to our investigators questions 
also supports this. Its worth noting that by 3 July, Mr W had also received credits which 
werent insignificant in value. This might have provided him with additional reassurance 
about the legitimacy of his dealings. 
Having weighed everything up, on balance, Im not persuaded that a subsequent 
intervention from Barclays would have made a difference to Mr Ws decision-making. It 
follows that I dont think it acted unreasonably in allowing the transactions to go through.
Ive also thought about Barclayss actions in relation to the recovery of funds once it became 
aware of the situation. I cant see that Barclays attempted a chargeback when Mr W reported 
the scam. However, as these were debit card transactions, the only avenue here would have 
been a chargeback. Although Mr W was scammed by A, his payments went to a legitimate 
crypto exchange. Barclays could have only raised a chargeback against the merchant he 
paid, not another firm. And given the merchant he paid had provided the service (conversion 
of money into cryptocurrency), its unlikely that a chargeback would have been successful. 
So, I dont think it acted unfairly by not raising a chargeback.
In summary. I recognise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr W and 
Im sorry that hes lost a large sum of money to a cruel scam. But in the circumstances, Im 
not persuaded that Barclays can fairly or reasonably be held liable to reimburse him for his losses. Any failure on Barclayss part in relation to not spotting the subsequent transactions 
as unusual is not the dominant, effective cause of Mr Ws loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Gagandeep Singh
Ombudsman