DRN-3141690
The complaint
Mr A complains about end of contract charges when his agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.  
What happened
In November 2016 Mr A was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract plan 
with MBFS. The contract matured in November 2020.
At the end of the contract the car was inspected. Mr A received an invoice for damage 
charges and additional usage. 
Mr A disputed the charges but MBFS said the charges remained payable. Mr A complained 
to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I said that MBFS had acted fairly in 
applying the charges for damage because the damage was outside of acceptable wear and 
tear. 
I thought that it was more likely than not that Mr A hadnt received the literature pack at the 
start of the agreement because he had reported it as missing soon after getting the car. I 
said that MBFS should remove the charge for this.
I said it had taken MBFSs agents a long time to contact Mr A to arrange collection of the car 
and that I didnt think it was fair that he should be charged all of the extra usage because the 
agents had delayed matters. I said it was fair to charge Mr A for 11 days extra usage.
I invited both parties to let me have any further evidence or arguments they wanted to make.
MBFS replied and said it accepted my provisional decision. Mr A replied and said he 
particularly wanted to dispute the dent, as he maintained it was just a  scratch. The 
investigator responded and explained to Mr A that the dent had been measured by a 
measurement tool and was likely to be a dent because the tool hadnt reflected in the car 
without disruption to the lines. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive considered the further points made by Mr A but my view remains the same. Im satisfied 
that the damage is a dent rather than a scratch. This is shown by the reflection of the 
measurement tool in the photos which accompany the report. 
Neither party has raised anything regarding the rest of my provisional decision so I see no 
reason to reach a  different decision to that which I reached before. 
Putting things right
To put things right Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited must refund the charge for 
the literature pack and refund part of the charges for extra use, limiting extra use charges to 
11 days extra use.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited  must take the steps Ive set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman