DRN-3206706
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (first direct) wont 
refund the money they lost in a scam. 
  
What happened
What Mr and Mrs L say
Mr and Mrs L hold savings accounts and a joint current account with first direct. 
In January 2019 Mr and Mrs L looked online for ethical investments. Mrs L ticked a box to 
say shed like to receive further information from a company. She received a call shortly 
afterwards from someone who said he was from a company Ill call W. The agent for W 
discussed ethical investments with Mrs L and she decided to invest in wind farms by buying 
a two-year bond with an 11 percent rate of return. 
Mr and Mrs L transferred funds in to their joint account and then Mrs L called first direct to 
make a payment of £50,000 on 16 November 2019. The payment wasnt to an account in 
Ws name but to an international money transfer company.
In June 2020 Mrs L realised shed been the victim of a scam. She wasnt able to contact W 
and when she searched for W, she found scam reports. Mrs L called first direct to report the 
scam on 14 June 2020 but was later advised no funds remained in the receiving bank 
account. Mr and Mrs L think first direct should refund the money they lost either under the 
Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) or because it didnt do enough to 
protect them at the time the payment was made.
What first direct say
First direct say it is unable to provide a refund to Mr and Mrs L and hasnt been able to 
recover any funds. It also pointed out that the CRM Code doesnt apply to this case. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered the complaint upheld it in part. She said that first direct 
should have identified that Mr and Mrs L might be the victims of a scam when they made the 
payment. This was because it was out of character, was for a much more significant sum 
than previous transactions and followed transfers in to the account amounting to £45,000. 
Had a more in-depth conversation taken place first direct would have established that Mr 
and Mrs L responded to an online advert, hadnt checked FCA registration, hadnt received 
any documentation about the bonds, the rate of return was too good to be true and the 
payee wasnt the company Mr and Mrs L were contacted by.
But the investigator felt Mr and Mrs L should bear half of the loss as they didnt complete 
adequate checks to ensure they were dealing with a legitimate company before making a 
significant payment.
Mr and Mrs L agreed with the investigators findings, but first direct didnt. In summary it said:
- Mr and Mrs L transferred funds from their individual savings accounts in to a joint 
current account during a phone call with first direct on 17 January 2019. In the call 
Mrs L explained they were buying a bond. This is a valid explanation for the transfer. 
A one-off high value purchase like this isnt unusual and first direct had no reason to 
suspect a scam.
- Mrs L called first direct to make the transfer for the fake bond. In the call she was 
asked about the payment, how she received the account details and what checks 
shed completed. Mrs L explained that her son, who works in the city, had undertaken 
thorough checks. Given this, there was no reason to flag the payment. 
- First direct has a duty to proceed with a payment instruction and cant act as an 
amateur detective. The investigators comments about how an in-depth conversation 
would have uncovered the scam are unreasonable.
- The questions suggested by the investigator (like bond details and rate of return) 
arent proportionate. It is the customers responsibility to complete their own due 
diligence, particularly when parting with such a large sum of money. It seems Mr and 
Mrs L werent under any time pressures as they transferred funds about a week after 
the call with W, so they had time to make reasonable checks.
- Mrs L misled first direct in her responses to questions asked in the call when she 
transferred funds. 
- Even if the conversation when the funds were transferred had gone further, Mr and 
Mrs L would still have made the payment based on the advice of their son.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And I have 
taken that into account when deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider first 
direct should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. In this case, I need to decide whether first direct acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr and Mrs L when they authorised the payment from their joint account or whether it 
could and should have done more before processing it. 
I note that Mr and Mrs L have referred to reimbursement under the CRM Code. They say 
that they dont know when the funds they transferred were removed and so they could have 
been defrauded after 28 May 2019, when the CRM Code came in to force. The CRM Code 
applies to payments made on or after 28 May 2019 and so it doesnt apply in this case  as 
Mr and Mrs L made the payment in January 2019. 
Did first direct act fairly and reasonably in Mr and Mrs Ls case?
I dont think theres any doubt that the payment request in this case was unusual and out of 
character. The highest single payment Mr and Mrs L had made in the twelve months before 
it was for £8,750. Given the payee name on their statement I believe this was a payment for 
a car. So a payment of £50,000 was out of character. Id expect first direct to ask probing 
questions to verify Mr and Mrs L werent being scammed or at risk of financial harm in 
relation to the unusual and uncharacteristic payment theyd requested. 
Mr and Mrs L called first direct to transfer funds in to their current account for the bond and 
also when they made the transfer to the fraudster, so Ive carefully considered what was 
discussed in these calls. 
In a call on 17 January 2019 Mrs L explained that she and Mr L had agreed to buy a bond 
for £50,000 and were looking to transfer funds in to their joint account. Mrs L asked first 
direct to note that £50,000 was going to leave their joint account but at the time of the call 
she didnt know how the payment would be made. 
In the next call Mrs L provided the account name and details she wished to transfer funds to, 
including a reference. She was asked how the account information was given and Mrs L 
confirmed they were provided in a call. I have set out below the next part of the call.
First direct  The reason we do ask that, we have been made aware of instances where 
information can be changed fraudulently when given by text, email or letter. Now are you 
confident this is a genuine request for funds, youve not had somebody call you out of the 
blue, asking for money. Nothing like that?
Mrs L  No, I havent, but thank you for asking. Erm I have been in to it and also my son who 
works in the city, Ive asked him to look in to it and he has looked in to it really thoroughly.
First direct  And hes done the due diligence, thats fantastic. OK. So when would you like 
me to send this money? 
The transfer was then made. 
Having considered the calls, Im not satisfied first direct has done enough here. Mrs L 
explained she wished to transfer funds for a bond. She was given advice about the 
possibility of payment details being changed by a fraudster but wasnt asked any questions 
about the investment. 
The payee name Mrs L provided when she called to transfer funds was a company that 
deals with international money transfers and currency exchange. Mrs L wasnt aware of the 
significance of this, but I think first direct should have had concerns about paying this 
company for a bond. I consider first direct should have asked the purpose of the payment, some information 
about the bond like how Mr and Mrs L found out about it, the expected rate of return and 
whether Mr and Mrs L had checked the FCA website. I dont agree with first direct that 
these questions arent proportionate when considering a £50,000 payment. Id also expect 
first direct to provide appropriate investment scam warnings, including the prevalence of 
fake and cloned investment companies and how to avoid falling victim to this type of scam. 
I appreciate first direct has said it wasnt required to act as an amateur detective. I accept 
this. Im not suggesting Mrs L should have been subject to an interrogation, but I consider 
first direct should have asked questions designed to disturb or unearth a
potential fraud or scam and establish that Mrs L wasnt at risk of financial harm.
Ive thought carefully about whether the kind of questions I believe ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been asked by first direct would have made a difference in this case. 
Having done so, its my belief that had first direct asked proportionate questions and given 
Mr and Mrs L a warning about investment scams they wouldnt have made the payment 
without completing further checks.
I appreciate Mrs L said her son had looked in to things thoroughly but the first direct advisor 
didnt question what this entailed or provide any basic advice about how Mr and Mrs L could 
protect themselves from investment scams. Mr and Mrs L werent made aware of the 
importance of checking the FCA register and werent asked whether they or their son had 
taken this step. 
Had Mr and Mrs L been provided with a warning I believe they would have taken additional 
steps before making the payment  and ultimately wouldnt have made it. Mr and Mrs L 
werent alert to the potential for fake investment companies to appear as genuine ones. First 
direct was the expert here and Mr and Mrs L inexperienced investors and I feel first direct 
should have done more to ensure Mr and Mrs L werent at risk of being defrauded. I see no 
reason why Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have taken first directs warnings seriously if theyd been 
cautioned to consider and check the legitimacy of the investment before proceeding. Ive 
seen no indication that Mr and Mrs L were so anxious to proceed that they would have 
ignored warnings or been unprepared to postpone the payment to reflect on the matter and 
make further enquiries. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Mr and Mrs L should bear some responsibility for their loss 
(known as contributory negligence). Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs L but I consider that 
they have contributed to their loss and so the award should be reduced by 50% to reflect 
this. Prior to making the transfer to W Mr and Mrs L didnt receive any correspondence or 
documentation and didnt complete any checks to ensure W was a legitimate company. 
Whilst I appreciate that many first-time investors arent aware of the importance of FCA 
regulation, I consider Mr and Mrs L could have taken other steps before investing such a 
large sum of money. For example, they could have checked online reviews and considered 
other bonds on the market which likely would have revealed that the rate of return offered by 
W wasnt realistic.   
Given my conclusions above, it isnt necessary in this case to consider whether first direct 
also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the
payee bank before they were removed by the scammers, so Ill only cover this area briefly. 
First direct contacted the bank the funds were transferred to in a reasonable timeframe as Id 
expect but were advised that no funds remained. Given the period of time that elapsed 
between the payment and the date the scam was reported Im not surprised by this. 
Scammers typically remove funds in hours or days and in this case the scam only came to 
light over six months after the payment was made. 
Putting things rightIn the circumstances I am satisfied first direct should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr and 
Mrs L for half the loss they suffered together with interest as set out below to compensate 
them for being deprived of the money they lost.
 
My final decision
I require HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct to:
- Refund Mr and Mrs L £25,000 less any further sums recovered;
- Pay interest on the above sum at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. If HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct 
deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr and Mrs L 
with an appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman