DRN-3084344
The complaint
Mr O complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) provided him with loans
without carrying out sufficient checks to see whether he could afford them.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Os complaint. Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was also partially upholding 
Mr Os complaint but the outcome differed from the one the adjudicator had reached.  A copy 
of the background to the complaint and extracts from the provisional findings follow this in 
italics and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr O has complained about a total of 8 instalment loans provided by Lending Stream. A
summary of Mr Os borrowing, based on the information provided to us from Lending 
Stream, can be found below:
loan number loan amount received date final repayment 
datenumber of 
instalments
1 £300.00 19-04-2016 02-08-2016 6
2 £800.00 13-09-2016 05-02-2017 6
3 £250.00 19-11-2016 28-01-2019 6
4 £200.00 26-11-2016 05-02-2017 6
5 £250.00 09-01-2017 01-02-2019 6
6 £300.00 17-02-2017 debt sold 6
7 £200.00 20-02-2017 debt sold 6
8 £400.00 14-03-2017 debt sold 6
Mr O has had problems repaying some of these loans. Mr O has told us that the final three
loans are with a third-party debt collection company and he has a repayment plan in place.
After Mr O complained to Lending Stream it issued its final response letter (FRL) which didnt
uphold his complaint. Unhappy with this response, Mr O brought his complaint to our
service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and he didnt think Lending Stream had made an
error when it provided the first 3 loans. However, he thought Lending Stream shouldnt have
provided loans 4 and 5 because proportionate checks wouldve likely shown Lending Stream
that Mr O had a significant amount of outstanding short-term lending with other lenders. And,
from loan 6, the adjudicator thought that a harmful pattern of lending had been established
so, the complaint about this loan, and all later loans, should be upheld.
Lending Stream responded and have agreed with the adjudicator about which loans it 
would pay compensation for. It explained that, once the interest had been refunded (for the 
upheld loans), and deducted from what Mr O owed for loans 6 - 8, he would still have a 
balance of around £188 to pay.
However, Mr O didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. In response he made a 
number of points. I want to reassure Mr O that I have read everything he has sent us, but 
a summary of the points can be found below:
The adjudicator didnt provide any reason as to why the first three loans havent 
been upheld
The law hasnt been considered when looking at the loans
The wrong test has been applied when looking at the loans
Should the ombudsman wish to depart from the legal test they will need to 
explain their reasons
Mr O has asked for compensation for everything that has happened  and the 
basis was set out in his submission
Mr O has asked for a copy of all his information held with Lending Stream via a 
Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) and Lending Stream hasnt sent him any 
information.
The adjudicator went back to Mr O and explained why the above points he had made 
hadnt made a difference to the outcome to the complaint. In response, Mr O provided 
further comments. Ive not listed everything Mr O provided, but Ive noted the main 
headings that he used:
this service had applied the wrong legal test;
the legality of the loans;
compensation; and
procedure errors.
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to make a decision on
the lending.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Mr O has provided a lengthy and detailed response to the adjudicators assessment
explaining why he doesnt agree with the outcome reached. Whilst I havent specifically
addressed every point raised here, I can confirm Ive read the response and thought
carefully about everything Mr Os said before reaching these provisional findings.
I understand Mr Os concerns about the adjudicator leaving information in their adjudication
that couldve identified him. This is done because the adjudications are not published. The
final decision on this case will be published, and as hell see from this decision, he has been
referred to as Mr O throughout to maintain his anonymity.
It may help if I outline the legal and regulatory environment when the lending was approved.
Whilst this is quite lengthy, I think it is useful to be completely clear about what Lending
Streams obligations were in order to lend compliantly at the time of each lending decision. In
addition, both Lending Stream and Mr O can find further lead decisions on our website that
set out this services approach to this type of complaint (irresponsible lending). 
the legal and regulatory framework and other publications
Mr O says that this service hasnt applied the correct legal test and in his response, he set
out the relevant rules and regulations that he says we should be applying, for example fromConsumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). Mr O is of course right that CONC is applicable as a
relevant consideration, and Ive set out below the relevant sections of CONC that I have
considered.
He also says that no explanation or rationale was provided as to why this service didnt
uphold the first three loans that he took, and therefore the view by the adjudicator failed to
meet the Wednesbury test of reasonableness. Mr O will see later on in this decision that I
have addressed loans 1  3 in detail.
Mr O also set out why the adjudicator hadnt applied the relevant regulation and legislation in
reaching their outcome. This was mainly in reference to little explanation being provided
about the first three loans. It looks like the adjudicator did use the correct rules and
regulations when coming to their conclusions, but didnt set them out explicitly. But I do
agree with Mr O that he didnt receive a complete explanation as to why this service didnt
uphold the first three loans.
Regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (from 1 April 2014)
Lending Stream gave Mr O all of his loans after the regulation of Consumer Credit Licensees
had transferred from the Office of Fair Trading to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on
1 April 2014. Lending Stream initially obtained interim permission to provide consumer credit
before it went on to successfully apply for authorisation. Lending Streams interim permission
to provide consumer credit and its eventual authorisation to do so meant that it was subject
to the FCA rules and regulations from 1 April 2014.
The FCAs Principles for Business set out the overarching requirements which all authorised
firms are required to comply with. The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And
the most relevant principle here is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FCAs Consumer Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook for credit-
related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit 
providers, such as Lending Stream. CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations in relation to
responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after a consumer has entered
into a regulated agreement.
However, in CONC there are references to the Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) issued
by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) who were the regulators of this type of lending until the
FCA took over.
The starting point for the relevant rule 5.2.1R(2) of CONC which sets out what a
lender needs to do before agreeing to give a consumer credit of this type. It says a firm must
consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit agreement to
adversely impact the customers financial situation, taking into account the
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
CONC 5.2.1 provides some information about where the information can be obtained from.A creditworthiness assessment must be based on sufficient information 
obtained from:
the customer, where appropriate; and
a credit reference agency, here necessary.
[Note: section 55B(3) of CCA]
CONC.5.2.3 provides some guidance about what a proportionate check could consider.
The extent and scope of the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be dependent upon and
proportionate to factors which may include one or more of the following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking the credit;
(5) the customer's credit history, including any indications that the customer is
experiencing or has experienced financial difficulties;
(6) the customer's existing financial commitments including any repayments due in
respect of other credit agreements, consumer hire agreements, regulated mortgage
contracts, payments for rent, council tax, electricity, gas, telecommunications, water
and other major outgoings known to the firm;
(7) any future financial commitments of the customer;
(8) any future changes in circumstances which could be reasonably expected to have
a significant financial adverse impact on the customer;
(9) the vulnerability of the customer, in particular where the firm understands the
customer has some form of mental capacity limitation or reasonably suspects this to
be so because the customer displays indications of some form of mental capacity
limitation (see CONC 2.10).
But CONC is also quite clear in CONC 5.2.4 that:
1) To consider all of the factors set out in CONC 5.2.3 G in all cases is likely to be 
disproportionate.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 of ILG]
Like the ILG before it, CONC also includes guidance about proportionality of assessments.
CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider what is appropriate in any particular circumstances
dependent on, for example, the type and amount of credit being sought and the
potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly relates
to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the
customers financial situation.
While CONC 5.2.4G(3) goes into some detail about the type of information that a lender may
wish to gather:
(3) A firm should consider the types and sources of information to use in its
creditworthiness assessment and assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), which
may, depending on the circumstances, include some or all of the following:
(a) its record of previous dealings;
(b) evidence of income;
(c) evidence of expenditure;(d) a credit score;
(e) a credit reference agency report; and
(f) information provided by the customer.
[Note: paragraph 4.12 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking
about affordability, and CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay the credit.
By way of explanation, CONC 5.3.1G(2) reads:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1) should include the firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customers ability 
to meet repayments under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants, CONC 5.3.1.4
states:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based on what the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment.
[Note: paragraph 4.13, 4.14 and 4.15 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1.6 then goes on to explain what is meant by sustainable:
6) For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under the
regulated credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other
reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, within a reasonable period; and
(c) out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement
where the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been
truthful in completing the application in relation to information supplied by the
customer relevant to the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by
CONC 5.2.2R (1).
Questions for me to consider before deciding whether Lending Stream did anything wrong
when it provided Mr O with his loans.Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account the relevant rules,
guidance and law, I consider the overarching questions are:
Did Lending Stream, each time it lent money to Mr O, complete reasonable and
proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr O would be able to repay the lending in a
sustainable way? If not, would those checks have shown that Mr O wouldve been
able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point
where Lending Stream ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Os
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt
have provided further credit?
Did Lending Stream act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I determine that Lending Stream did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr O
and that he has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Lending Stream accepts that loans 4 to 8 shouldnt have been given and has offered to put
things right in line with our approach. Given these loans are no longer in dispute, I dont
intend to deal with these loans in any great detail in this decision. But I will include them in
the putting things right section at the end of the decision.
Instead this decision will focus on whether Lending Stream was right or wrong to have
granted loans 1, 2 and 3. And also to deal with the other complaint points, such as around
Lending Stream not complying with Mr Os request for information.
Did Lending Stream, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate checks to
satisfy itself that Mr O would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and still doesnt, specify exactly how an
assessment of affordability is to be carried out, but the extent and scope and the types
and sources of information to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the
sustainability of the arrangement for the consumer.
In other words, the assessment needs to be customer-focussed. It is not an assessment of
the risk to the lender of not recovering the credit, but of the risk to the consumer of incurring
financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequence as a result of the
decision to lend.
As said earlier on this in this decision, in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly relates to
the particulars of the lending and the circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders
assessment of creditworthiness would likely need to be adaptable to the individual needs
and circumstances of a consumer. That is to say, what is sufficient for one consumer might
not be for another, or indeed what might be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance
might not be so for the same consumer in other circumstances. In short, Lending Stream
needed to be prepared to adapt its assessment depending on what it knew about Mr O. So,
a dynamic approach to assessing each applications affordability for the customer is vital.
Bearing the above in mind (including the regulations Ive set out at the start of this decision),
I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with the circumstance of each
request for credit. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the
potential risk to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.
Certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably havedone more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors
include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to repay a
given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the agreement (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the
credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an
extended period); and
the greater the number and frequency of credit agreements, and the longer the
period of time during which a customer has been given the credit (reflecting the risk
that ongoing use of these agreements may signal that the borrowing had become, or
was becoming, unsustainable).
Loan 1
Mr O first loan was for £300, which was to be repaid via 6 monthly repayments of varying
amounts. Ive outlined below the payment schedule that Ive found in the credit agreement.
To be clear, this may not reflect the amount Mr O actually paid on these dates because Mr O
wouldve been able to make over payments (or additional payments), indeed, this loan was
repaid in September 2016. But this is what Lending Stream expected Mr O to pay when it
was assessing affordability.
1. 31 May 2016 - £103.20
2. 30 June 2016 - £132
3. 29 July 2016 - £115.68
4. 30 August 2016 - £107.52
5. 30 September 2016 - £81.60
6. 31 October 2016- £60.
So as per CONC 5.2.1(2) Lending Stream was required to assess the impact these
payments would have on Mr Os financial situation and his ability to make the repayments as
they became due over the life of the agreement. Therefore, when looking at these types of 
cases, this service considers it reasonable for Lending Stream to establish whether Mr O 
would be in a position to afford the largest repayment he was committed to making. After all, 
if Mr O could afford the largest repayment, it is likely that hed be in position to make all the 
other payments he was committed to. For this loan, Lending Stream needed to carry out a
proportionate check to satisfy itself that it was likely Mr O could afford to pay £132 per
month.
When this loan was approved, Lending Stream asked Mr O about his monthly income and
his expenditure. On the application form Mr O declared that his monthly income was £3,050
with monthly outgoings of £1,875. This meant Lending Stream was aware that Mr O had
disposable income of around £1,057 per month in order to make a maximum repayment to
Lending Stream of £132.
In addition to this, Lending Stream also carried out a credit check. The first thing to say
about this is that there is no requirement for Lending Stream to carry out a credit check at all,
let alone one to a required standard.
CONC just says this is one of the ways that Lending Stream can gather information about
Mr O. But what Lending Stream cant do is carry out a credit search and then not react to the
information that it gets from that.Ive considered the results that Lending Stream saw, and they dont show any adverse credit
file information. There are no indicators to suggest there were any delinquent payment
markers or defaults. The credit check showed Mr O had 9 active accounts reported to the
credit reference agencies. But Lending Stream didnt appear to know exactly what sort of
accounts these are. They couldve been anything from a current account, a mortgage, credit
card, store card, personal loan or other short-term lending. So merely the existence of an
account doesnt necessarily indicate problematic debt.
The credit check results didnt show anything that in my view wouldve led Lending Stream to
either doubt the information Mr O had provided, or to have prompted it to have carried out
furthermore in-depth checks. Or to have made it think that Mr O wouldnt be in a position to
sustainably repay this loan.
So for this loan, it look likes Lending Stream asked for and gathered information in line with 
CONC5.2.4.(3) (parts e and f) and Im satisfied that it thought about the extent and scope of 
the checks as outlined in CONC 5.2.3, as well as factors that it could consider when deciding
what sort of information it needed to gather. In this case, for this loan, thinking about
Mr Os declared income and expenditure, the amount Mr O needed to repay Lending
Stream, and the fact this was the first loan I conclude that Lending Streams checks were
proportionate.
Based on the information Lending Stream gathered, it was not unreasonable of it to
conclude that Mr O would be in a position to afford the repayments that he was committed to
making. Im therefore indenting not to uphold Mr Os complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Mr O appears to have repaid the first loan without any problem: for example, there were no
missed or late payments  which is something that Lending Stream can take into account
when thinking about what a proportionate check may look like for loan two.
Just over a month after loan one was repaid, Mr O returned to Lending Stream for further
lending. This time Mr O was lent £800. Looking at the credit agreement, had Mr O made all
of his payments on time, then his largest repayment would be due in October 2016 when he
was committed to paying Lending Stream £358.40.
Again, Lending Stream needed to carry out proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr O
would be able to make his repayments over the lifetime of the agreement. But, when thinking
about that, I think its reasonable for Lending Stream to have considered the largest single
payment that Mr O needed to make. Again, if Mr O was likely to be in a position to repay the
largest amount due, it follows that hed likely to be able to make the remainder of his
commitments.
For this loan, again, Mr O declared he worked for the same employer as he did for loan one
and had an income of £3,050 per month. On top of this Mr O declared his outgoings came to
£1,200. So, again, it would seem that Mr O would likely to be in a position to afford the
repayments that he was committed to making.
Although this loan was for a significantly greater amount that his first loan, and therefore had
larger monthly credit commitments to Lending Stream, I dont think it wouldve been
proportionate for Lending Stream, at that time, to have made further enquires with Mr O
about his living costs, or to have started to verify the information that he was providing. The loan appeared pound and pence affordable, and there wasnt anything in the credit file 
data or in the manner the first loan was repaid to suggest to Lending Stream that Mr O 
wouldnt be able to sustainably repay this loan. It therefore follows that I dont think Lending 
Stream was wrong to have approved this loan.
Loan 3
When this loan was granted Mr O still had outstanding payments due for loan two. And these
repayments needed to be taken into account when Lending Stream was deciding what a
proportionate check would look like. Although the largest repayment due for loan three was
£114 the actual combined largest repayment (taking into account the repayments due for
loan two) was £359.20 due on 30 December 2016.
Mr O had borrowed further funds, and therefore was going to be indebted to Lending Stream
for at least a further six months. The largest combined repayment for loans two and three
was broadly similar to the largest repayment due for loan two.
When thinking about what Ive said about the loans above, Lending Stream needed to
consider whether Mr O could repay this loan over the lifetime of the agreement, and whether
Mr O had sufficient funds to afford the December payment, it being the largest one. If so, its
not unreasonable to conclude that Mr O would likely to be able to afford the remaining
payments that he had to make.
Mr O was again asked for his income and expenditure when he applied for this loan, he
declared to Lending Stream that his monthly income was £3,050 and his outgoings were
£1,450 per month. Based on this information alone it was reasonable for Lending Stream to
have believed Mr O could afford the repayments he was committed to making. However, that
doesnt automatically mean it hasnt done anything wrong. There was, in my view, emerging
information that needed to be taken into account. This leads me to conclude that the checks
Lending Stream carried out werent proportionate, and Ill explain why.
Mr Os credit file didnt show any defaults or delinquent accounts and showed one new
account had been opened since the previous loan, which it wouldnt be unreasonable to
conclude was likely to be Mr Os second loan from Lending Stream. However, the credit
checks also showed that Mr Os total outstanding debt had increased by more than the value
of the second loan, which in my view indicates that Mr O had either taken other lending or
was using more of his available credit.
As part of the credit check Lending Stream also obtained what it calls in its results Experian
Credit Score. This maybe the score that was actually seen on Mr Os credit file or it couldve
been a score that is made up of the score from Experian in addition to other factors that
Lending Stream use to generate the final score. But what this does show is, in my view, a
fairly significant drop from that showing at the time of loan two, bearing in mind this
application was made only two months later. As I understand it, the higher the Experian
credit score, the better. So, while the credit check didnt show anything adverse in terms of
information about individual loans, the overall picture indicates a potentially worsening
position.
Lending Stream was also aware, based on Mr Os income and expenditure information, that
he had around £1,800 per month disposable income. This ought, in my mind, to have led
Lending Stream to question why, if Mr O had so much disposable income, he was coming
back to take his first overlapping loan.
These factors together lead me to conclude that Lending Stream needed to do more than
rely on the information it was given by Mr O in line with CONC 5.2.4G(3), because I dontthink Lending Stream had considered the risk to Mr O of repaying this loan. And therefore, in
line with CONC 5.3.1G(2) it needed to do more by way of verification of the information Mr O
had given it.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) provides some examples of information Lending Stream may have wanted
to have taken into account in order to satisfy itself that Mr O could repay the loan. But I do
think by this point, and as a result of the factors set out above, it had reached the stage
where Lending Stream needed to be verifying Mr Os income and expenditure. Lending
Stream couldve done this a number of ways, it couldve for example asked to see copies of
his wage slips and then evidence of his outgoings via bills. Or it couldve asked to see a
copy of Mr Os bank statements.
I accept that Lending Stream may not have seen everything that Ive seen while reviewing
Mr Os bank statements, but this is the most accurate record we have of Mr Os actual
financial position at the time this loan was approved, so I dont think it is unreasonable to rely
on this information.
Looking at the bank statements, I can see that at the end of November 2016 Mr O made
repayments towards seven other payday loans with four other high cost credit firms, Mr Os
other loan that he had outstanding with Lending Stream, as well as one high cost credit loan.
These payments alone came to over £1,400 which is close to 50% of Mr Os monthly income
before the potential repayments for loan three should have been taken into account, as well
as any of his other regular living costs to be considered.
In these circumstances I think this ought to have alerted lending Stream that it was unlikely
Mr O could afford the repayments to loan three in a sustainable manner. I say this because,
in line with CONC 5.2.4G(2), he was already significantly indebted to other high cost lenders
and further lending to Mr O was not sustainable.
So, the information Lending Stream wouldve likely discovered by carrying out a
proportionate check would have highlighted to it that Mr O was unlikely to be able to repay
this loan sustainably. It therefore follows that I dont think this loan shouldve been granted,
and Im intending to uphold Mr Os complaint about his third loan.
Irresponsible lending redress
Mr O describes these agreements as unlawful. He says that, as weve found some of the
loans ought not to have been lent, that this is a breach of the FCA rules, and the outstanding
balance shouldnt need to be repaid.
To be clear, I have not made a decision on the lawfulness of the loans. This service isnt a
court and its role isnt to assess statutory duty or the enforceability of the loan  only a court
can do that.
The awards this service looks to make are awards of fair compensation that reflect the fact
something may have gone wrong and what needs to be done to put the consumer back into
the position they wouldve been in had an error not been made (as far as this is possible).
This award is also required to be in line with what the ombudsman considers to be fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. This means the awards are not designed to
punish a lender for granting loans that it shouldnt have done.
Ideally, when a complaint is upheld, this service would aim put the consumer back into the
position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. Such awards can be difficult to put
into practice. This is because Lending Stream has granted loans that Mr O has had thebenefit of. The funds have been deposited into Mr Os bank account and he has used them.
So, its not just a matter of unwinding the loans, because Mr O has received and then spent
the money (as well as making some repayments). It therefore wouldnt be fair or reasonable
to not expect Lending Stream to recover at least the value of the sums that were lent.
For loans that have been taken out and fully repaid, Lending Stream shouldnt be able to
benefit from having provided them. This means that wed ask the lender to refund anything
that was paid by the consumer above the principal that was borrowed. This in effect creates
an interest free loan. In addition, as Mr O wouldve been deprived of the use of the funds
(the interest part of the repayment) then its reasonable that he receive 8% simple interest on
the sums refunded.
For loans where the balance hasnt been repaid, we also think no interest and charges
should be added to the balance, so the only amount that a consumer should repaid is the
principal that was borrowed. And, if needed, a lender is entitled to use a refund to offset any
outstanding principal balance remains.
In addition, just because Lending Stream, in my view didnt carry out proportionate checks
before providing some of the loans, that in and of itself doesnt mean a payment of
compensation should be paid. And, taking into account the circumstances of the complaint,
Im not persuaded that a separate payment of compensation for distress and inconvenience
is warranted in relation to the lending decisions because what Im going to be asking
Lending Stream to do in relation to the interest and the 8% is in my view reasonable.
Im sorry to hear about the health problems that Mr O has had, and I do hope things are now
improving for him. But Ive not seen any evidence that he made Lending Stream aware of his
health and the impact he says these loans had on it. Equally, it may well be that all of`
Mr Os financial difficulties impacted him  far above and beyond the impact of Lending
Stream.
In saying all of the above, Ive not seen enough to make me think I should depart from the
well-established approach this service has when coming to redress for this complaint, and
Ive outlined towards the end of the decision what Lending Stream needs to do to put things
right as a result of issuing loans to Mr O which it shouldnt have done.
Did Lending Stream act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
However, that doesnt mean there arent other things that may have gone wrong and Ive
dealt with Mr Os additional points below.
The Final Response Letter
Mr O has questioned the legality of the final response letter, because of how Lending Stream
assessed the affordability of the complaint. However, Mr O made a complaint and Lending
Stream provided him with an answer  which is what it is required to do by the regulators
rules.
If Mr O wasnt happy (as was the case here) he had the right to bring the case to this service
 which is what hes done. So, while Mr O may have concerns with the content of the final
response letter, he has correctly exercised his right to bring this matter to our service to
investigate. Ive already outlined above what I think about the checks Lending Stream
carried out for the loans that continue to be in dispute, and what this may have shown, so I
dont intend to revisit that here.Mr Os request for information, under a data subject access request (DSAR)
Mr O is unhappy that Lending Stream initially didnt respond to his DSAR and then when it
did provide the information (following the involvement of the ICO) Mr O had concerns about
what was actually provided to him, this led to further letters from the ICO to Lending Stream.
Im satisfied that I am in position to consider this element of the complaint. Im able to do this
despite the fact that data subject access request isnt expressly listed as one of the main
activities or regulated activities covered under DISP 2.3.1R. Because in my view the wording
is sufficient to say that a complaint can be considered if it relates to an act or omission by a
firm in carrying on one or more of the activities this service covers  such as in this case
lending money. In particular, DISP 2.1.4G explains that carrying on an activity includes:
1. offering, providing or failing to provide a service in relation to an activity;
2. administering or failing to administer a service in relation to that activity; and
3. the manner in which a respondent has administered its business, provided that the
business is an activity subject to the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.
But, even if it were argued that the complaint isnt one of the main activities identified, or fell
under carrying on an activity as explained by DISP 2.1.4G, Im still satisfied that I have
jurisdiction to consider this element of the complaint. DISP 2.3.1R states that;
the Ombudsman can consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it 
relates to an act or omission by a firm in carrying on one or more of the following 
activities:

or any ancillary activities, including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with 
them.
Therefore, under DISP 2.3.1R, this service has jurisdiction over any ancillary activity,
including data related matters, which are carried out by a business in connection with a
main activity (in this instance lending money). It therefore follows, that I am satisfied that I
can consider the expression of dissatisfaction in connection with the subject access request
as part of this complaint.
I would start by confirming that Ive read the letters and emails Mr O provided us about this
matter in April 2021. I think its also worth noting at this point that Mr O has raised this issue
with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). They are the regulator set up to deal with
matters such as these.
The issue here is that in June 2020 Mr O asked for information from Lending Stream, that he
was entitled to ask for. The information wasnt received by the deadline, and Mr O escalated
this matter to not just this service, but also to the ICO.
Its worth noting that as far as Im aware there is an ongoing investigation with the ICO and
Lending Stream. I can see from Mr Os submission there have been numerous letters and
emails between all parties, and it doesnt yet seem that this matter has been concluded.
Lending Stream has told this service it has complied with the DSAR  or at least has
supplied Mr O with some of the information he asked for. But Mr O has outlined in his letter
why he considers Lending Stream still hasnt fully complied with his request. This was sent
to Lending Stream on 22 February 2021 via email. And since then the ICO provided Lending
Stream with further deadlines.
I accept that Mr O is entitled to information that Lending Stream holds about him. Mr O didntreceive this by the initial deadline of 8 July and so he has escalated this matter to the ICO 
which I think was the prudent thing to do. Im not intending to comment too much on this
matter, solely because the ICO is the most appropriate body to deal with matters that involve
DSARs.
I can award compensation if Im satisfied that Mr O has been caused distress and
inconvenience as a result of, for example, having to chase Lending Stream for a response to
the DSAR.
What I cant do is make an award to Mr O merely for the fact that Lending Stream hasnt
supplied him with the request information, this is because this is a regulatory issue that the
ICO will need to look into.
But I am satisfied that it took Mr O several months to receive any information at all, and in
that time, I can see that he was in contact with both Lending Stream and the ICO to try and
get the matter resolved. Despite raising this matter with Lending Stream a number of times,
he didnt seem to get a satisfactory answer  or the information that he had asked for.
I do consider it reasonable that an award is made for the distress and inconvenience this
matter has caused to him. Mr O reasonably believed that hed receive a prompt response,
which he did not. So, I do think that an award is due in this case, and Ive outlined below
what that should be.
Compensation  payment for distress and inconvenience to Mr O
In response to the adjudicators view on the case Mr O summarised why he felt a
compensation payment of £5,000 was due. He says this should be paid for the following
reasons:
Non-financial loss arising from ongoing significant distress;
Impact on Mr Os health and professional embarrassment; and
His rights have been curtailed under the law for Lendings Stream failure to respond
to his DSAR.
Ive already explained that I dont believe additional compensation is due in connection with
the lending itself, taking into account what Ive seen and what Mr O has provided. Instead Ill
explain why I think that a £200 for the issue Mr O has experienced with the DSAR is
appropriate.
Mr O has said that he should be paid a significant amount for the distress and inconvenience
hes been caused by Lending Stream in the way it handled his request for personal
information.
It may help if I explain that any payment for distress and inconvenience that this service may
award is down to the individual circumstances of each case and a reflection of fair
compensation. The award isnt designed to be punitive, so Im not looking to fine or punish
the lender for the errors. The award is there to recognise that a particular consumer has
been caused some distress and inconvenience in the circumstances that gave rose to the
complaint.
So, while Ive noted the level of award that Mr O would like, I dont agree with him that an
award of more than £5,000 would be reasonable. Our website has some examples of the
different level of awards that could be made2.
These are split into different categories. Looking at the circumstances of this case, anypayment of distress and inconvenience, in my view, falls into the moderate band (less than
£500). Our website says that an example of a case in need of a moderate award could be:
A customer had to contact you repeatedly to get something quite basic sorted out.
For example, their address wasnt updated when it should have been, or paperwork
containing their personal information was shared with a third party by mistake. This
may have caused the customer frustration and inconvenience.
Again, the fact that Lending Stream approved loans that it shouldnt have done doesnt
automatically mean that a payment of compensation should be paid for this matter. Ive
taken on board what Mr O says about the impact these loans had on him, but Im not
satisfied, based on what Ive seen, that a separate award (beyond what Ill be directing
Lending Stream to do about the loans) should be paid to Mr O. Im satisfied that the refund
of the sums paid over the loan amounts, together with interest, is sufficient to address the
deprivation of the sums, and the distress and inconvenience associated with the lending.
However, in relation to the DSAR, its quite clear that Mr O was entitled to ask for the
information that Lending Stream held about him. And this wasnt supplied when it ought to
have been. And as Ive said, that is for the ICO to investigate. But Im satisfied that Mr O did
chase lending Stream for the information and there is no dispute about that.
This leads me to think its reasonable to say that hes had to chase Lending Stream for
something that ought to have been provided within a reasonable time. As it didnt provide
this information, Mr O had to seek to involve the ICO. I appreciate Mr O says that not all the
information has yet been received, but that is a matter for the ICO.
Taking into account the purpose of any award for trouble and upset, the modest nature of
the awards and the facts of this case, I feel an award of £200 is fair and reasonable taking
into account what our service may typically award in similar cases.
This, of course, fits within the moderate band Ive outlined above. And Ive considered
whether in this case Mr O should have a higher award within the band (or a lower award).
But, I dont think, given the circumstances of this case, that more compensation should be
paid. I say this because although it took Lending Stream a significant period of time to
provide him with some of the information (and he was prompt in referring the case to the
ICO).
But, I am satisfied, given the emails that Ive seen, that Mr O has spent and has had to
invest an unnecessarily amount of time, and had to invest in trying to get the his own
information via a number of emails to Lending Stream, which he really ought not needed to
do. Whilst that is inconvenient for Mr O, I am satisfied that this type of issue falls within a
moderate award of distress and inconvenience.
Finally, I cant see that Mr O has lost out financially as a result of the delay in providing
information  for example, the delay wouldnt have prevented Mr O from brining his
complaint to this service.
But taking account, the obvious distress and inconvenience that Mr O has been caused by
Lending Stream, I feel, in the circumstance of this case, and making reference to the
purpose of compensation, that £200 is a fair award.
Response to the provisional decisionI asked both Mr O and Lending Stream to provide any further comments, information or 
evidence they wanted the Financial Ombudsman to consider before the final decision is 
issued. 
Lending Stream responded to the provisional decision, and it agreed to the findings that I 
reached. Although it made no mention of the compensation payment that I thought was fair. 
It offered to put things right for Mr O in line with my recommendation. Lending Stream 
confirmed the following: 
The redress due on loans 3  8 amounts to £1,070.72 (which includes interest, fees 
and charges, 8% simple interest and minus tax at the mandatory rate of 20%). 
Mr Os credit file would be updated in line with the redress. 
There is an outstanding balance of £880, so after this amount is subtracted than 
Mr O would receive a refund of £190.72. 
The refund would be paid into Mr Os account ending 3195. Lending Stream has 
said, that if Mr O wants the funds paid into a different bank account, he will need to 
speak to it and provide evidence for the account that he wants the funds paid into. 
Its worth noting that the 8% simple interest will be paid to the date of settlement, so the final 
redress figure that Mr O will be due, could be more than the above amount that Lending 
Stream outlined. 
Mr O has provided this Service with further correspondences. I want to say to Mr O that I 
have read his submissions in full. But a summary of his response to the provisional decision 
can be found below and Ive used the six sub-headings, which Mr O used in his response. 
Loan 1
The ombudsman hasnt reconciled errors within the FRL with the evidence supplied 
to him. 
There are inconsistencies between Lending Streams FRL, the evidence submission 
and the ombudsmans conclusions.
Lending Stream hasnt provided any evidence to show that for loan 1, it considered 
the largest repayment due in order to assess the affordability of the loan. Indeed, the 
FRL supports the fact that Lending Stream only considered a repayment of £100. 
From the evidence provided, Lending Stream carried out an affordability assessment 
for a lower loan amount.
The ombudsman, in his findings ought to have considered a loan repayment amount 
of £100. 
The only rational conclusion is that for loan 1, Lending Stream failed to carry out a 
proportionate check.  
Loan 2
Ive not reproduced all the comments Mr O provided in relation to loan 2 because they are 
similar in nature to the comments, he gave in relation to loan 1. But he also said:
The loan agreement was generated some time after the application for funding was 
granted. 
Lending Stream, in the FRL admits it used a lower monthly figure for loan 
repayments than the ombudsman used when coming to his conclusions.
Irresponsible lending redressMr O accepts, that this Service cant rule on the lawfulness of the lending, only a 
court can do that. 
But that doesnt stop the ombudsman from making a finding on what he considers to 
be the likely outcome. 
In failing to reach any conclusion on this position, the ombudsman has failed to have 
regard to the legal position. 
As there is no active conclusion, it isnt clear whether the ombudsman has followed 
the law or has considered and has departed from it. 
The ombudsman is required to form a view on the legal position with respects to the 
loan and reach a conclusion which is fair and reasonable. 
Legality of the final response letter (FRL)
Mr O says the FRL issued by Lending Stream doesnt comply with DISP 1.4.1. 
Mr O is therefore says; Accordingly, the challenge raised is not the legality of the 
letter itself, but of its effect.
The FRL outlined Lending Streams response along with the figures it used when 
assessing affordability. These are different to the one used by the ombudsman in the 
provisional decision. 
If the ombudsman concluded the FRL isnt accurate or contains errors, then Lending 
Stream is in breach of the DISP rules. 
If Lending Stream used the incorrect figures in the FRL, then Lending Streams FRL 
isnt accurate and there is further claim for compensation due for a breach of DISP.
In conclusion, when Lending Stream carried out its assessment for loans 1 and 2, it 
didnt take into account the proper repayment amounts as and when they fell due. 
Therefore, Mr O says the complaint about loans 1 and 2 should also be upheld. 
 
DSAR request
There were factual errors in the provisional decision, the ICO (Information 
Commissioners Office) has completed its investigation and concluded Lending 
Stream has breached its obligation. 
The ICO cant award compensation for the breach and so it isnt correct to say that 
the matter should be left to the ICO to remedy such a breach. 
Although, the ombudsman has awarded compensation for the delays in dealing with 
the request, no compensation was given for Lending Stream failing in its obligation to 
provide the information. 
Mr O says, Lending Streams failure was the untimely  response to the DSAR, which 
went on for nearly a year  during which multiple requests for the information were 
made. As such, Mr O says this award should fall into the substantial damages 
category. It is appropriate for the ombudsman to deal with these aspects of the 
complaint, given the ICO has looked and finished its investigation into the complaint. 
Compensation
The compensation award failed to take into account a number of other factors. 
It failed to take into account that there has been a breach of the ICO rules.
Compensation can be awarded for wider reasons beyond whether a financial loss 
has been incurred. 
The ombudsman has unlawfully restricted the scope for compensation.  
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lending Stream agreed with the findings I reached in the provisional decision, so I dont 
intend to say anything further about its response. 
Its worth noting that Mr O agrees with the reason why I upheld loan 3, so I dont intend to 
produce additional reasoning on this loan further (or the other loans that Lending Stream had 
already agree to uphold). But these loans do form part of the redress that Lending Stream 
will need to pay (and has agreed to pay). So, these loans are mentioned in the putting 
things right section at the end of the final decision. 
Instead, I will take this opportunity here to address the points Mr O raised in response to the 
provisional decision about loans 1 and 2.  
Ive thought very carefully about what he has to say. But in this case, and for the reasons 
Ive outlined below, I am satisfied that  Lending Stream does not need to do any more than 
what it has already agreed to do and what I outlined in the provisional decision. Ive 
explained why. 
Mr O highlighted in his response to the provisional decision some references to a third-party 
lender, who he quite rightly says had no bearing on this complaint. Ive, therefore, removed 
these references from the provisional decision above. 
Mr O also has referred to himself as a Claimant in the correspondence that he has provided 
to this Service. It is worth reiterating at this point the Financial Ombudsman Service is not a 
Court. While, as an ombudsman, I issue legally binding decisions our remit isnt the same as 
the courts. The ombudsman service has a wholly independent fair and reasonable remit. I 
decide complaints on the basis of what is fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of 
the case.
If Mr O is seeking an outcome based upon the strict application of the law and the judgment 
of a court, he may wish to seek appropriate legal advice. I cannot issue a judgment of a 
court and I do not decide complaints in the same manner. 
It is also clear from submissions that Mr O has spent a considerable amount of time and 
effort in his arguments to this Service and I thank him for his patience while the case has 
been reviewed by this Service. But I also wish to manage expectations that the ombudsman 
service considers complaints as per the statutory scheme. 
Looking back at Mr Os response, I have read that a lot of what he has said relates to the 
powers that I have as an ombudsman and what I should be considering and what I can or 
cant award for. To be clear as to my powers, Ive set out below the relevant powers as per 
DISP 3.:
DISP 3.6.1
The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by reference to what is, in his opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
and
DISP 3.6.4In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the 
Ombudsman will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what he considers to have been good industry practice at the 
relevant time.
DISP says Im required to decide a complaint on what is fair and reasonable, taking into 
account what is relevant such as relevant law, regulators rule, code of practice, good 
industry practice, etc. But, that isnt the same as just making a finding on a pure legal 
position  which Mr O does suggest should happen in this case.
This Service, is an informal alternative to the courts and I am not making a legal ruling as to 
the law, breaches of law, etc. If Mr O wants a legal ruling or application of the strict legal 
position on a particular point, as above, he may wish to seek legal advice on the matter. 
Ive included the reference to DISP 3.6 because I think its important when discussing some 
of the points Mr O raised in response to the provisional decision and which I mention below.
 
Final response letter and loans one and two
Ill deal with the FRL and the points Mr O has raised about the outcome for loans 1 and 2 
together. Ive done this because the three sections are linked to the outcome and some of 
the points cross over. 
When looking at whether Lending Stream did something wrong when these loans were 
granted, I considered the full file, along with following pieces of evidence;
1. The details Mr O provided as part of his applications.
2. The credit agreements that set out the repayment schedule for each loan. 
3. The loan spreadsheet that Lending Stream provided, which contained a summary of 
all the information it collected about each loan as well as the loan history. 
4. To a lesser extend the final response letter, this is because this was completed after 
the complaint and sometime after the loans were granted. 
Having looked at the loan application information for loans one and two, I can see that these 
were completed on the same day the credit agreements were electronically completed. 
Im also satisfied, based on the evidence that Ive listed above that I am able to reach a fair 
and reasonable outcome in relation to loans one and two based on what has been provided 
by Lending Stream and has also been shared with Mr O.  
This is because the complaint about these loans turns on whether Lending Stream carried 
out a proportionate check before providing the loans, and it has already been accepted that 
the majority of the loans Lending Stream provided Mr O shouldnt have been provided by 
following the same test. The approach that I have taken in this case is based on the relevant rules that Ive 
highlighted above and my remit to come to a fair and reasonable decision. The outcome Ive 
proposed on this case reflects this and, in my view, does produce a fair outcome. To be 
clear, I have always kept in mind the requirement for me to come to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in all the circumstances. 
This means that I have placed more evidential weight on the details contained within the 
loan applications and the credit agreements rather than the final response letter. Ive done 
this because the final response letter is Lending Streams response to the complaint 
Mr O raised and was produced some time after the loan applications. 
The credit agreement contains the terms that both parties are bound to  for example the 
repayment term and interest rate. It also is the information that Ive considered whether 
Lending Stream did or didnt carry out a proportionate check before it advanced these loans.  
So, I think its reasonable to rely on those documents rather than the final response letter, 
which as Ive said is a response to a complaint.  
I accept that the information Lending Stream has put into the final response letter about the 
monthly repayment amount isnt correct. This information doesnt relate to any figures that 
are contained within the credit agreements and no explanation has been provided as to why 
those figures have been used when assessing the complaint. 
I dont know why Lending Stream has used the figures that it has in the table in the final 
response letter. So, while Ive noted what it says, Ive used the figures contained within the 
credit agreements because as Ive said above those are the amounts Mr O was contracted 
to repay. 
When looking at what Lending Stream needed to do before these loans were approved, (and 
is what I consider to be fair and reasonable  DISP 3.6), it had to satisfy itself that by 
carrying out a proportionate check, Mr O would be in a position to afford to repay the loan  
in this case, it is reasonable to consider the largest scheduled repayment he was due to 
make for each loan.
I say this because if Mr O could afford the largest repayment it follows that hed be able to 
afford the smaller repayments. There is in my view, nothing controversial about this and is 
entirely consistent with this Services approach and I see no reason to find for a different 
outcome in this instance.
It is clear, from the FRL that for loan 1, Lending Stream says it used a repayment amount of 
£100. For loan 2, it used £250.03. Both of these figures are smaller than the largest singular 
monthly repayment that Mr O would need to make according to the credit agreement. But 
these figures are larger than the average cost per month. I reached the average by adding 
up the total value of the repayments due and then dividing them by the number of 
contractual repayments. 
Lending Stream says for loan 1 the repayment, was £100, but 4 of the 6 payments Mr O was 
contracted to make were for larger than this amount. And, the £100 is more than the average 
of the six payments. But, even if Lending Stream did use the figure of £100 when working 
out Mr Os affordability for loan 1, this would still lead me to conclude that this loan shouldnt 
be upheld as the information Mr O provided showed the loan was affordable.
This is because the proportionate checks that Lending Stream carried out showed it that 
Mr O had £1,057 of disposable income to meet his largest contractual repayment of £132, as 
outlined in the credit agreement. And Mr O has made similar points about loan 2. The FRL says that for loan 2 the repayment 
is £250.03 whereas the credit agreement says the largest repayment is £358.40. Again, I 
havent seen an explanation as to why these figures differ  but I dont need to find out in 
order to reach a fair outcome. 
For the same reasons as Ive outlined above in the provisional decision, I think the checks 
were proportionate (whether  Lending Stream used  a payment of £250.03 or £358.40) and 
so I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to have provided this loan either.
I say this because Lending Stream carried out, in my view a proportionate check. It asked for 
details of Mr Os income and expenditure, and it discovered, from this information that Mr O 
had monthly disposable income of £1,756. This may not have been accurate reflection of 
Mr Os disposable income but as this was early on in the lending relationship, and as Ive not 
seen anything that contradicted Mr Os declared income and expenditure it was reasonable 
for Lending Stream to have relied on what it was told. 
This wouldve likely led Lending Stream to believe that Mr O would be in a position to afford 
the contractual repayments he was due to make. 
Lending Stream also carried out a credit check at this time, Ive considered those results, 
and there isnt anything in those results that in my view, wouldve prompted Lending Stream 
to either decline the application or to have prompted it to make further enquiries into Mr Os 
financial position. 
Given it was early on in the lending relationship, the checks it carried out showed Mr O 
would be in a position to afford the loan and there were no other signs of financial difficulties 
I consider the checks for both loan one and two to have been proportionate, and this there 
leads me to the conclusions that the complaint, about these loans shouldnt be upheld. Im 
satisfied this is a fair and reasonable outcome for the complaint. 
 
Lending Stream hasnt explained to this Service, either in the final response letter, or its later 
file submission, exactly how the figures were arrived at. And, further investigation to 
establish where the figures came from, in my view isnt warranted, because it wouldnt 
change the outcome regarding loans one and two because based on the information 
contained with the credit agreements Im satisfied I can reach a fair and reasonable 
outcome.  
It is of course possible, that Lending Stream initially carried out an assessment of 
affordability (using loan 1 as an example) for a loan of £250 because this is the amount Mr O 
requested on the application form data I have been provided. Before, providing the loan the 
for the amount that was advanced for £300. That may explain the difference in the 
affordability values in the final response compared to the largest value that is detailed in the 
credit agreement. 
When considering the two sets of figures, from the final response or the credit agreement, 
whichever one is used doesnt lead me to change my mind about the lending for loans one 
or two. Both figures would have been affordable. 
Or, if I agreed with the numbers used by Lending Stream in the final response letter are 
correct, and should be the ones considered for the affordability assessment, wouldnt in my 
mind lead to a different outcome  because the loan wouldve still looked affordable. Using the credit agreement figures these loans looked affordable, based on the checks 
carried out by Lending Stream and the same is true if I use the figures that Lending Stream 
put into the final response letter. 
But using the figures in the credit agreement this is giving the benefit of the doubt to Mr O, 
because these amounts are larger and therefore, if Mr O could afford the repayments as 
outlined in the credit agreement he couldve afforded the repayments outlined in the final 
response. 
Which is what I did in the provisional decision and using the scheduled figures from the 
credit agreement (the largest repayment amount due) Mr O wouldve been able to afford the 
repayments he was committed to making, based on the information he declared to Lending 
Stream. 
But that doesnt explain the difference in the FRL for loan 2 because Mr O applied for a loan 
of £800, and that was the amount that was granted. But again, I dont think I need to explore 
this further in order to reach a fair and reasonable outcome. 
Overall, and I know Mr O will disagree with this, but I think, regardless of the figures that 
Lending Stream used, the information Mr O provided it as part of the application process 
showed that he could afford the repayment amounts needed taking into account either 
figures from the FRL or the credit agreement.  
I also dont think, it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Streams checks to go further 
for these two loans, even taking account of the issue of what affordability figure was used. 
The lending decisions made for loans 1 and 2 were still early on in the lending relationship 
and Mr O declared he had sufficient disposable income to be able to afford the lending. 
Redress for the final response 
I appreciate Mr O says that he should be paid compensation because of possible errors in 
the FRL as it breaches DISP 1.4.1 For ease of reference Ive included DISP 1.4.1 below;
Once a complaint has been received by a respondent, it must:
(1) investigate the complaint competently, diligently and impartially, obtaining 
additional information as necessary;
(2) assess fairly, consistently and promptly:
(a) the subject matter of the complaint;
(b) whether the complaint should be upheld;
(c) what remedial action or redress (or both) may be appropriate;
(d) if appropriate, whether it has reasonable grounds to be satisfied that 
another respondent may be solely or jointly responsible for the matter alleged 
in the complaint;
taking into account all relevant factors;
(3) offer redress or remedial action when it decides this is appropriate;
(4) explain to the complainant promptly and, in a way that is fair, clear and not 
misleading, its assessment of the complaint, its decision on it, and any offer of 
remedial action or redress; and(5) comply promptly with any offer of remedial action or redress accepted by the 
complainant.
But Im not persuaded, that even if I thought Lending Stream was in breach of the DISP rules 
that I would award compensation for that.  Mr O received the FRL, considered what was said 
and disagreed with it. Therefore, in line with his rights he referred the complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman.  He hasnt lost out, as a result of any possible error in the final 
response letter.  
It also, isnt this Services role to punish a firm and / or award compensation to a consumer 
(in this case Mr O) purely because a business may have been in breach of the DISP rules. 
In this case, Mr O has received a final response that does appear to contain contradictory 
information about the affordability assessment for loans one and two. But whether the final 
response complies with the above DISP rule is, ultimately, a regulatory matter for the 
Financial Conduct Authority.
Rather than a matter for me to decide whether or not the final response letter issued in this 
case complies with DISP. As I explained at the start of this decision, my remit is to consider 
and come to a fair and reasonable outcome. 
I cant rule out that Mr O may have been caused some inconvenience due to the information 
that Lending Stream provided in the final response letter. But, ultimately, he was able to refer 
his complaint to this Service within the relevant time limits.
My review has resulted in an outcome in Mr Os favour. After all I think a fair and reasonable 
outcome is different to the outcome Lending Stream reached following its investigation. 
Despite the mistakes contained within the final response letter I do not consider that 
additional compensation is warranted. I have noted the mistakes, I have reviewed all of the 
evidence, attributed the appropriate weight and reached an outcome that is fair and 
reasonable in all of the circumstances. 
But what I cant do, nor do I think it is fair, is award compensation solely because the final 
response in this case may breach the DISP rules. Ive considered the impact on the letter 
and the actions of Mr O since he received it, and even if the information contained within the 
final response letter mirrored the information that I have used when coming to the outcome 
that I have, I still think its likely Mr O wouldve referred his complaint to us and I have 
considered an overall award to reflect fair compensation in this case. That is set out below.  
I, therefore, cant say that Mr Os actions have been prejudiced by the final response letter, 
and Im not persuaded that Mr O has been caused material distress and inconvenience by 
the contents of the final response letter. After all, the issue with the affordability assessment 
has only become apparent following investigation by the Financial Ombudsman and the 
approach I have taken when considering whether proportionate checks have been carried 
out. 
So, while the approach Lending Stream took in its FRL may not reflect DISP in its entirety I 
dont think that means the early loans should be upheld, there is no causal connection 
between the two, nor that compensation should be paid because the figures it used in the 
final response are incorrect.
Irresponsible lending redress
I appreciate Mr O accepts the Financial Ombudsman Service cant rule on the lawfulness of 
the lending, because only a court can do that. But Mr O says that as I made no finding on the lawfulness of the loans in the provisional decision, I havent taken regard to the legal 
position. 
As Ive explained earlier, with relevant to DISP 3.6. My role and remit is to come to a fair and 
reasonable outcome. As part of my assessment I do have to take into account relevant loan 
and guidance (such as DISP or CONC) into account. But the Financial Ombudsman is not a 
court and I am not able to make a finding on the legality of these loans. I appreciate Mr O will 
be disappointed by this, but there is nothing more I can say about it. 
Id also refer Mr O back to the previous section in this decision where I discussed the role 
and my remit, and I repeat here that it isnt within my remit to make a finding on the lawful 
position of the loans, as Im required to decide what is fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the case. 
Overall, taking into account the relevant laws and regulation and what I consider to be fair 
and reasonable in this case, the redress that I proposed in the provisional decision, and what 
can be found at the end of this final decision in relation to loans 3 - 8 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this case. 
The redress in relation to the refund of the interest, fees and charges is in my view fair. Mr O 
has paid interest on the upheld loans that he shouldnt have done because they ought to not 
have been granted. So for loans where Mr O has taken out a loan and fully repaid it, the 
interest should be refunded this is the fair thing to do in order to put Mr O back into the 
position he wouldve been in had the loan not been granted. 
In all situation, I think its fair, that although may have been advanced that shouldnt have 
been, Mr O would still need to pay back, at the very least what he was advanced, but no 
more than that. Which is why the interest, fees and charges are refunded and this is the fair 
and right thing to do. 
Where loans havent been fully repaid, say because of financial difficulties, its reasonable to 
allow the lender, in this case Lending Stream to offset any outstanding balance from the 
refund that is due. This is to ensure that any capital which was advanced is fully repaid. 
Its also fair that to this sum, 8% simple interest is added. This is recognition of the fact that 
Mr O has been deprived of the use of the funds (the interest element of the refund). This 8% 
award is in line with what a court may award for deprivation of funds. 
Im also not making an award for compensation in relation to any distress that may have 
been associated with the lending decisions Lending Stream made. The compensation that is 
proposed and for what lending Stream has already agreed to, is in my view, fair to 
compensate Mr O for the loans that he was provided with. 
No further compensation is being recommended in relation to any distress and 
inconvenience that may have been caused because of the loans being advanced. While 
some of the loans ought to not have been advanced, the distress and inconvenience that 
Mr O may have incurred is more likely than not a result of the context of his wider financial 
situation at the time. 
I say this because, based on the bank statements Mr O previously provided, these show he 
was borrowing from other high cost short-term creditors before he was advanced loan one. 
So, I think any distress or inconvenience that may have been caused was more likely as a 
result of his financial position at the time rather than specifically as a result of being granted 
these loans.  In this case, Ive not seen anything else in relation to the unaffordable lending part of the 
complaint which would make me think that I need to depart from the well-established 
approach that is used when putting a consumer back into the position they wouldve been in 
had an error not been made. In this case, Im satisfied this approach leads to a fair and 
reasonable outcome. 
DSAR request
Ive reviewed the paperwork that Mr O has sent in, and I do agree with him that the ICO has 
issued its findings into its investigation into how Lending Stream, dealt with his DSAR. 
The ICO says, in its findings dated 28 April 2021;
I have considered the information available in relation to this complaint and I am of 
the view that Gain Credit LLC has not complied with their data protection obligations. 
This is because you have not received an appropriate response to your subject 
access request within the statutory timeframe.
The letter goes on to say, correctly, that should Mr O be worried that the information is being 
withheld from him, then Mr O would have the right to take the matter to court. The court 
has the power to make an order requiring Gain Credit LLC to provide information if it is found 
to have been unreasonably withheld.  
Mr O rightly points out that compensation was awarded for the delays in Lending Stream 
dealing with his request for information, and I still think this amount is fair. The question now, 
is should a further award be paid, given the result of the ICOs findings. 
Mr O provided a letter to this Service, outlining why he says the award for Lending Streams 
failure should lead to a compensation payment at the upper limit of the severe range.
Ive thought carefully about this. But I dont think a further award should be paid. Mr O did 
spend a considerable amount of time dealing with Lending Stream and had to escalate his 
request to the ICO in order to try and receive the information he was entitled to receive. This 
also, wasnt helped by the fact Lending Stream told this Service it had complied with Mr Os 
request. 
But the awards the Financial Ombudsman make are for fair compensation considering a 
number of different factors (DISP 3.7.2  which is covered further below). Awards can cover 
several different aspects, from financial loss, pain and suffering or distress and 
inconvenience. 
And Ive addressed the compensation award below in more detail with reference to the 
relevant DISP rule. 
Total compensation recommended 
Mr O says that the total compensation award that I recommended of £200 wasnt sufficient 
(as detailed above) enough and that I have unreasonably and unlawfully narrowed the scope 
of the award. 
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr O suffered a financial loss, and if there has been any 
what needs to be done as far as possible, in order to unwind what has happened. In this 
case, Im satisfied the compensation in relation to the irresponsible lending does this  as far as possible and is fair and reasonable. 
It is also why, this Service asks Lending Stream to make adjustments to the credit file, to 
reflect the fact that there should either be no adverse information on his credit file for loans 3 
to 5, and for loans 6 to 8 they should be, entirely removed from Mr Os credit file. Again, I 
consider this to be fair and reasonable as the amendment to the credit file corrects the 
position and ensures that the lending has not resulted in adverse information remaining on 
Mr Os credit file. 
Im satisfied the financial loss compensation is fair and reasonable because it does put him 
back into the position, he wouldve been in had those loans not been advanced.  
I also, dont think that Mr O should be given compensation purely because he advanced 
loans he couldnt afford. This is because, the financial loss has been addressed by the 
adjustments to the credit file and the award regarding loan 3 onwards. This is in my view fair 
and reasonable. 
However, there is of course other types of compensation that can be paid, our website 
contains example of this and DISP 3.7.2 is also relevant here as well, because it sets out the 
following;
.., a money award may be such amount as the Ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for one or more of the following:
(1) financial loss (including consequential or prospective loss); or
(2) pain and suffering; or
(3) damage to reputation; or
(4) distress or inconvenience;
whether or not a court would award compensation.
 
Mr O is correct, the Financial Ombudsman can award further payments for things such as 
distress or damage to his reputation and this is reflected in the DISP rules. Although some 
and / or all of the above factors may or may not be relevant to the consideration of any 
further award. But what is important, is any award that is made, in line with the above DISP 
guidance also fits into what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome and a reflection 
of fair compensation in this case. 
I also want to be clear, that when coming to the compensation award of £200, I didnt limit 
the scope of my thinking when coming to the award. I did consider the four points reference 
above and which can be found in DISP 3.7.2. In this case, Ive already dealt with the 
financial loss that Mr O incurred and then I went on to consider whether further 
compensation should be award for what happened with his dealings with Lending Stream. 
I couldnt find any evidence that Mr Os reputation has been damaged by Lending Stream 
advancing him unaffordable loans or with his dealings with the ICO. I also, dont think I can 
conclude that pain and suffering has been caused given what Mr O has told me and from 
what Ive seen in this complaint. 
When looking at compensation, I thought about the fact that Mr O was caused distress and 
inconvenience in his dealing with Lending Stream around the ICO, and my conclusion was 
that a payment of £200 was fair and reasonable. 
Mr O was entitled to ask for the information that he did, and Ive seen from his letters that he 
was clear what he wanted and why. Lending Stream had a duty and obligation to respond to this and to provide the information that he was seeking. However, it would seem based on 
the information that this didnt happen. 
Mr O then had to spent time dealing with not just Lending Stream as to why the request 
hadnt been carried out but he then had to seek further support from the ICO and then wait 
for its investigation to be carried out. Although it is worth adding, that Mr Os complaint 
wasnt delayed by having to go to the ICO for an investigation. 
Based on the documentation that Mr O has provided (the letters from the ICO) and what Ive 
mentioned above the findings are clear, that Lending Stream didnt comply with the request 
that Mr O to supply the information. This outcome took almost a year to be reached 
(between June 2020 and April 2021). So given what Mr O was asking for, he was entitled to, 
and in my view, it took an unreasonable amount of time to get to the point where he was 
given an answer, that being Lending Stream hadnt complied. 
On top of the fact that Lending Stream informed the Financial Ombudsman in February 2021 
that the request had been carried out, which does seem to be at odds with the findings made 
by the ICO. 
Having thoughts about what is fair and reasonable, and the types of award I can make as an 
Ombudsman, I do consider the award of £200 to be fair and reasonable. 
Ive thought about whether that award is unfair or should be increased and I dont think it 
should be. Im satisfied, although I know Mr O will disagree that this is a fair reflection of the 
fact that he had to go above and beyond and was caused delays in asking for and chasing of 
the information he was entitled too. 
If I were to increase the award for compensation solely because Lending Stream failed to 
comply with the DSAR, this would effectively be punishing Lending Stream for not 
complying. And this isnt something I have the power to do as once again, my powers are 
about being fair and reasonable. 
I had to consider the impact on Mr O for having to go, further than ought really be needed in 
order to obtain information he was entitled to under a DSAR. Having thought about that, I do 
think the award that I initially recommended is fair and reasonable and I dont intend, in this 
case, to award more than the £200 compensation. 
I appreciate that Mr O feels differently, and I can see that he has put a lot of time and effort 
into his submissions and provided explanations as to why a further award should be made, 
but in this case, thinking about what the awards are for, my scope for being fair and 
reasonable I consider what has been proposed to be fair and reasonable. 
Ive outlined below what Lending Stream needs to do in order to put things right for Mr O. 
Putting things right
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding what redress Lending Stream should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about
what might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr O from loan 3, as Im satisfied it
ought to have.
I believe the options available to Mr O would have been:1. having been declined this lending, Mr O may have simply left matters there, not
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others;
2. If that wasnt a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend 
or relative  assuming that was even possible; or
3. he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, 
or indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had
done that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how
they would (or ought to have) treated an application.
From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can fairly conclude there was a real
and substantial chance that a new lender would have been able to lend to Mr O in a
compliant way at this time. 
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or
reasonable to conclude that Mr O would more likely than not have taken up any one of these
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Lending Streams liability in this case for what
Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Lending Stream shouldnt have given Mr O loans 3 to 8.
If Lending Stream has sold any outstanding debts it should buy these back if it is able to do
so and then take the following steps. If Lending Stream is not able to buy the debts back
then Lending Stream should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined
below.
A)  Lending Stream should refund all repayments made by Mr O towards interest, fees
and charges on loans 3 - 5.
B)  Lending Stream should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments
made by Mr O which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr O
originally made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)  Lending Stream should remove all interest, fees and charges from the outstanding
balance due for loans 6  8, and treat any repayments made by Mr O as though they
had been repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr O having made
overpayments then Lending Stream should refund these overpayments with 8%
simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayment
arose, to the date the complaint is settled. Lending Stream should then refund the
amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) However, if there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A
and B should be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this
results in a surplus then this should be paid to Mr O. However, if there is still an
outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an affordable
repayment plan with Mr O.
E) Lending Stream should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Os credit
file in relation to loans 3  5. The overall pattern of Mr Os borrowing for loans 6 to 8
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so Lending Stream should
remove these loans entirely from Mr Os credit file.
F) Lending Stream should pay directly to Mr O £200 in compensation for the
distress and inconvenience, hes been caused by the delays and poor 
communication by Lending Stream. Lending Stream cant use this payment to offset 
any outstanding balance that may be due.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to deduct tax from this interest. Lending
Stream should give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax Lending Stream has deducted,
if he asks for one.My final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsmans consideration of this complaint, 
which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, Im upholding Mr Os 
complaint in part.
Gain Credit LLC should put things right for Mr O as directed above regarding the loans and 
pay an additional £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman