DRN-1926580
The complaint
Mr M complains that Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy after his car was stolen.
What happened
Mr Ms policy had an endorsement that said his car must be garaged from 10pm to 6am or it 
wouldnt be covered for theft. In April 2019 Mr M returned home at 9pm, left the locked car 
on his drive and went to meet some friends. He returned after two hours and realised the fob 
that operated the garage door was missing, so he couldnt lock the car in the garage. Mr Ms 
driving licence was also missing, but the two items may not have been lost together. 
The next morning Mr M found that his house had been burgled. His car keys, wallet and 
other items were taken from the hallway  and the car was stolen too. Markerstudy declined 
the claim, but Mr M said hed had no option but to leave the car on the drive overnight.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He noted that the endorsement had 
been breached and said it was a matter of whether Markerstudy had acted fairly and 
reasonably in applying it. He said we look at whether a consumer has taken reasonable care 
to avoid an incident taking place. In his view, Mr M could have done more, such as call 
Markerstudys 24-hour helpline for advice, when he found the fob was missing. 
Mr M said he couldnt have done more. He said he tried to call the helpline, which was 
closed. He said there was no way to block the car in, and nowhere else to park it. He didnt 
have a steering lock for it. Mr M said he thought his house was secure, but the thief 
overcame the locks on the front door. In his view, the theft was pre-planned, and putting the 
car keys somewhere less obvious would have put his personal safety at risk.  
 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute about Mr M being aware of but not having complied with the policy 
endorsement, which entitled Markerstudy not to deal with the claim. Sometimes we think its 
fair and reasonable for insurers to waive their right to decline a claim. But I dont think Mr M 
provided anything to Markerstudy that should have led it to conclude that would be 
appropriate here.
In my opinion, since theft cover was dependent upon the car being in a locked garage 
overnight, it was for Mr M to ensure thats what happened. He hasnt fully explained how the 
garage door fob was lost, but fobs are usually attached to sets of car / house keys. As it 
seems Mr Ms fob was carried separately, in my opinion it was always more likely to be lost 
than it would otherwise have been. So I think the onus was on Mr M to take better care of it 
than hed normally have had to do had it been attached to a set of keys. He could also have 
ensured he had a spare fob for emergencies. As far as Im aware, thats common practice.
It isnt possible to know what the exact circumstances of the theft were. Mr M thinks it was a 
pre-planned theft, but he hasnt explained why he thinks thats likely to have been the case. 
In my view,  it could just as easily have been an opportunistic one. Its not uncommon for a 
thief to break into a house largely in order to steal car keys, having seen a car outside.  In 
fact, theres a note to that effect in the policy in its preventing crime section. 
As Mr Ms car was on the drive to be seen by potential thieves throughout the night, it was 
far more vulnerable to theft than it would have been had it been in the garage  hence the 
policy endorsement. Although it isnt possible to say for certain, the burglary could well have 
been the direct result of the car being visible and attractive to the thief. 
Mr M says there was nothing he could do to safeguard the car once he realised he couldnt 
lock it in the garage. From the details hes provided, it seems it wouldnt have been possible 
to block it in or to park it elsewhere, and he didnt have an anti-theft device to put in the car. 
But knowing the car was vulnerable, I think it would have been reasonable for Mr M to put 
the keys for it somewhere other than the hallway, where they were easily accessible. 
I know Mr M was concerned for his personal safety, which was reasonable, but most 
insurers expect consumers to secure their car keys. Theres a reference to this point in the 
policy  which says consumers shouldnt leave car keys where a burglar can easily find 
them. I dont think its reasonable to leave keys in an obvious place deliberately, which is 
what Mr M seems to be saying he did, especially if a car is in a vulnerable situation already. 
Had the thief not located the keys for Mr Ms car easily, its theft may have been avoided. 
 
I know the consequences of the theft are serious for Mr M, given the cars value. And the 
event must have been especially frustrating for him if he usually ensured the car was locked 
in the garage overnight. But the fob could have been lost at any point, and that would always 
have increased greatly the cars vulnerability and the risk of it being stolen. 
Despite my sympathy for Mr M, I dont think Markerstudy acted unreasonably, so I dont think 
it would be fair for me to require it to deal with the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman