DRN-3965722
The complaint
Miss W and Mr T complain about the advice they received from Fluent Mortgages Limited 
when they re-mortgaged. They say it made errors which meant they had a funding shortfall. 
They had to find additional funds at short notice.
Miss W and Mr T ask that Fluent compensates them for the amount of the shortfall plus an 
amount for their distress, inconvenience and embarrassment. 
What happened
Mr T and Miss W contacted Fluent in early 2022. They wanted to re-mortgage and take out 
additional borrowing to repay their help to buy loan. Fluent recommended a mortgage and 
Mr T and Miss W received a mortgage offer in early March 2022. 
A valuation of the property was carried out in March 2022 to establish the cost to Mr T and 
Miss W of repaying the help to buy loan. The property was valued at £15,000 more than 
expected. This meant the cost of repaying the help to buy loan was also higher than 
estimated when Fluent recommended the mortgage. Mr T and Miss W say Fluent should 
have told them this in March 2022. They say they had no idea until their solicitor asked them 
to pay a shortfall of about £3,000 in early May 2022. Mr T and Miss W had to ask family for 
the money.
Fluent said it should have re-assessed the mortgage after being told about the higher than 
expected valuation. It offered £300 compensation for the upset caused. 
Fluent says it asked the lender if it would increase the mortgage loan, but it declined saying 
this didnt pass its affordability tests. Fluent said interest rates had gone up, and Mr T and 
Miss W would have had to pay a higher interest rate if theyd re-applied in March 2022. It 
said because they kept their lower interest rate product, Mr T and Miss W were better off. 
Our investigator said Mr T and Miss W had to pay the shortfall at short notice and this was 
stressful. But the alternative would have been to re-apply for a larger mortgage loan. The 
higher interest rate would have meant the mortgage would have cost about £7,000 more 
over the term. This was more than the shortfall.
Mr T and Miss W didnt agree. They said they understood that their repayments would 
increase and the overall cost of the mortgage might be more. But the recommended 
mortgage didnt meet their needs, as their intention was to repay the help to buy loan. They 
said Fluent should have looked at mortgages on offer in March 2022, not in June 2022 when 
rates were at an all-time high. They said due to the delay they were on their lenders 
standard variable rate (SVR) and had to pay for a second property valuation. They are now 
repaying money to a family member, which means they cant save for a family holiday.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T and Miss W took mortgage advice from Fluent in early 2022. Their mortgage product 
was due to expire at the beginning of May 2022. They wanted a new product and additional 
borrowing to repay their help to buy loan. The amount needed to repay the help to buy loan 
was estimated based on a desk top valuation of Mr T and Miss Ws property. Fluent told 
Mr T and Miss W that the administrator of the help to buy loan would give them the exact 
amount.
Fluent applied for a mortgage on behalf of Mr T and Miss W and a mortgage offer was 
issued on 10 March 2022. The offer was valid until 8 June 2022. 
The process to repay the help to buy loan required a valuation of the property, which would 
be used to calculate the amount needed to repay the loan. The valuation was carried out by 
a RICS surveyor and Miss W received the report in mid-March 2022. 
Miss W spoke to Fluent the next day (16 March 2022). Ive listened to a recording of this call. 
Miss W said the valuation was £15,000 more than theyd expected. Miss W asked if that 
meant theyd need more money? Fluents staff member asked if the report had come from 
the solicitors, which Miss W confirmed. Fluents staff member said she didnt think it changed 
anything, but Miss W should call the solicitor and check with them. She said this was their 
usual advice when the documents hadnt come from Fluent. The staff member said Miss W 
could call Fluent back if the solicitor didnt help or if she was unsure 
The administrator of the help to buy loan issued a letter on 10 April 2022 stating the 
redemption amount for the help to buy loan. Its unclear from the available evidence when 
Miss W and Mr T received a copy of this. 
Miss W says on 9 May 2022 she received an email from the solicitor saying there was a 
shortfall of about £2,800. She says this was the first time shed been told this. Miss W 
contacted Fluent.
Fluent asked the lender if it would increase the loan. The lender said it couldnt increase the 
loan amount, as this wouldnt pass its affordability checks.
Miss W and Mr T were in a difficult position. They had a mortgage offer which wasnt enough 
to repay their existing mortgage and the help to buy loan. They didnt have savings available 
to cover the shortfall. Applying to a different lender would have taken time, the outcome 
wasnt certain, and interest rates had increased. The process for repaying the help to buy 
loan had deadlines to meet. 
A family member gifted the money to Miss W and Mr T. The family member provided the 
relevant confirmations required by the lender, such this being a gift that didnt need to be 
repaid. Miss W says sorting out the shortfall led to delays in completing the re-mortgage. 
They had to pay for a re-valuation of the property to be carried out in late June 2022. And 
they were on their previous lenders SVR while the matter was sorted out. 
Fluent accepts it made an error. It said it should have reassessed the mortgage amount after 
being told in mid-March 2022 about the higher property valuation. It offered compensation of 
£300. While I know Miss W and Mr T will be disappointed, I think this is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances. This is for the following reasons.
First, I dont think Fluent was solely responsible for Miss W and Mr T being unaware of the 
shortfall until so late in the process. Miss W and Mr T say that Fluent told them at the outset 
that the administrator of the help to buy loan would send a statement of how much they needed to pay. This was issued in early April 2022. As I said, I dont know when Miss W and 
Mr T received the statement, but I cant see that Fluent was responsible for any delay in 
them receiving it. Thats not to say that Fluent didnt make an error, it should have realised it 
would need to assess the mortgage again. But, as it told Miss W and Mr T, the process and 
cost of repaying the help to buy loan were matters dealt with by the administrator and the 
solicitor. Its not clear why Miss W and Mr T werent aware of the cost of repaying the help to 
buy loan until May 2022. 
Second, the shortfall wasnt itself a financial loss for Miss W and Mr T. This was the amount 
needed in addition to the mortgage loan to repay their existing obligations. If theyd taken out 
a larger mortgage loan they would have had to repay it  although the repayments would 
have been spread over the mortgage term.
Third, I dont think Miss W and Mr T have a financial loss as a result of Fluents error. I 
appreciate there were delays while Miss W and Mr T sorted out funds for the shortfall. They 
were on their lenders SVR in the meantime, and they had to pay £110 for the property to be 
revalued. On the other hand, they kept the benefit of a lower interest rate product. 
The Bank of England increased the base rate in early February 2022, mid-March 2022 and 
early May 2022. Fluent says the interest rate product secured by Mr T and Miss W had been 
withdrawn by mid-March 2022. If theyd re-applied to the lender for a larger loan, theyd have 
had to pay a higher interest rate, and the overall cost of their mortgage would have been 
higher (by over £7,000). It seems likely theyd have had to pay a higher interest rate if theyd 
applied to other lenders. Mr T and Miss W say they were prepared to do this, to meet their 
aim of repaying the help to buy loan. Nonetheless, they are now benefitting from the lower 
interest rate. 
It's possible Miss W and Mr T wouldnt have been offered a larger mortgage, especially 
given increases in interest rates and living costs at that time. Miss W says if theyd re-applied 
elsewhere and been unable to raise enough to cover the shortfall theyd have pulled out of 
re-mortgaging. I cant see that there was anything to stop them from pulling out of this re-
mortgage, if that was what they wanted to do.  
Overall, I dont think Miss W and Mr T have a financial loss as a result of Fluents error. But 
they were caused upset and inconvenience when they had to find the shortfall at short 
notice. Mr T and Miss W might have decided not to reapply, or been unsuccessful in 
reapplying, for a larger mortgage even if Fluent had told them they needed more funds in 
March 2022. But they would have had more time to sort matters out. Miss W and Mr T had to 
approach family members for the funds, and ask them to provide the information required by 
the lender. I can understand this was embarrassing. I think it was right that Fluent offered 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience of having to arrange funds to cover the 
shortfall at short notice. I think £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Fluent Mortgages Limited to pay £300 to 
Miss W and Mr T (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Miss W 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 March 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman