DRN-2445394
The complaint
Mr B complains that Amtrust Europe Limited have unfairly declined his claim for a rent 
guarantee under his Legal Expenses and Rent Guarantee Insurance Policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some key events here. Mr B is a landlord and he let out the property relevant 
to this complaint under a tenancy agreement. The agreement was initially for a 12-month 
term which started on 11 March 2019. But the agreement included provision that at the end 
of the initial 12-month term it would continue as a contractual periodic tenancy. Beyond the 
initial term it allowed that either party could end the tenancy by providing the required written 
notice to do so (at least 28 days). 
Mr Bs tenant remained in the property beyond March 2020 but fell into arrears on the rental 
payments. In May 2020 Mr B contacted Amtrust to make a claim, he wanted to make use of 
the rent guarantee. After seeking some further information and following the process to 
attempt mediation Amtrust went on to decline the claim. They relied on a policy term which 
they say means there is no cover for the rent guarantee beyond the end of the tenancy 
agreement. Amtrust said this was 10 March 2020 when the initial 12-month period expired. 
They pointed out that the policy would assist with debt recovery and took steps to progress 
that for Mr B. 
Mr B complained, he disagreed with Amtrusts interpretation of the policy term and he 
thought he should still be covered. Amtrust maintained their position and the matter was 
referred to our service. One of our investigators thought the complaint should be upheld. In 
summary she didnt think the policy term in question had been fairly applied. She 
recommended that Amtrust reconsider the claim against any remaining policy terms and that 
if a payment was made 8% simple interest should be added to this. Amtrust still disagreed 
and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. Ill 
explain why. 
Mr Bs policy says The Insured is covered for Rent arrears owed by the Tenant(s) under the 
Tenancy Agreement during the period of insurance and up to the Maximum Amount 
Payable, where an Insured Event occurs and the Insured is, where appropriate, pursuing 
Legal Action under this Insurance Certificate
Rent is only payable during the Insured Period and for up to 6 months or to the end of the 
period shown in the Tenancy Agreement, whichever happens sooner and whilst the Tenant 
(including any unauthorised occupants) remains in occupation of the Insured Property. For 
the purpose of this clause the Tenancy Agreement shall be deemed to continue until vacant 
possession, if the only reason it has been brought to an end earlier than intended is as a 
result of the Tenants breach of the Tenancy Agreement.
Amtrust say that as the end date on the tenancy agreement was 10 March 2020, there is no 
cover available under the rent guarantee. I agree with our investigator that in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think this policy term has been fairly applied. Its 
reasonably common for there to be an initial period of a tenancy agreement after which it will 
continue but with fewer restrictions on either party serving written notice to end the 
agreement. The language used in the policy terms also support this. As part of the definition 
of a Tenancy Agreement the policy states The initial Tenancy Agreement must be for a 
fixed term of no more than 12 months. (My emphasis added). I dont think this implies that 
there wont be cover beyond the period of the initial agreement. 
After March 2020, the tenancy agreement was still in place between Mr B and his tenant. If it 
had been Amtrusts intention to exclude a rent guarantee for a periodic contractual tenancy 
in these circumstances, I would have expected this to have been made clear in the terms. I 
agree with our investigator that the likely intention of this term is to exclude the rent 
guarantee when there isnt a formal agreement in place between the landlord and tenant  
but that isnt the situation here.
Amtrust say Mr B could have served notice to his tenant in January 2020 to bring the 
agreement to a close in March 2020. But at that time his tenant wasnt in arrears and if both 
he and the tenant were happy with the arrangement, Im not sure why he would have wished 
to have served notice at that time. Overall, I dont think Amtrust have fairly applied this policy 
term to decline Mr Bs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Amtrust 
Europe Limited must:
Reconsider Mr Bs claim on the basis that the tenancy agreement was still in place at 
the time when the tenants breach of the agreement occurred.
If the remaining policy terms are met, the rent guarantee should be considered until 
the date Mr B secured vacant possession of his property.
If a payment is made in settlement of the claim, 8% simple interest (yearly) should be 
added to the settlement amount between the date of the claim and the date of 
settlement. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman