DRN-3409657
The complaint
Mr J complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted him a conditional sale 
agreement he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In July 2016, Mr J acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mr J made an advance payment of £2,500 and was required to make 41 
monthly repayments of £396. The total repayable under the agreement was £18,725.
Mr J says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. He says if it had, it 
would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
carried out a thorough assessment which included a credit check and verifying Mr Js 
income through his bank statements. It noted that there was some adverse information on 
Mr Js credit file but said the latest defaulted account was from a year prior to the application. 
It said that agreement appeared affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought Moneybarn didnt act 
unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mr J didnt agree and said the defaults on his credit file were only a year old and showed he 
couldnt maintain his payments.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before granting the finance, I thought Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of 
evidence and information from Mr J about his ability to repay. It completed a credit 
check and had sight of Mr Js bank statements for the two months prior to the 
application. However, this didnt automatically mean it made a fair lending decision. 
Moneybarn recorded Mr Js average monthly income as £1,870. I looked through the 
bank statements provided and came to a number lower than this amount of around 
£1,700. I also noted that Mr J was paid weekly, and the amounts varied. The 
statements provided showed one month giving a total monthly income of around 
£1,500 and the other month giving a total monthly income of nearer £1,900. The term 
of the agreement was 42 months and Moneybarn needed to consider Mr Js ability to 
make the repayments over the term and I thought that Mr Js variation in income 
should have been factored in.
Moneybarn didnt provide a copy of the credit check it completed. However, it noted 
that Mr J had defaults recorded but that the most recent of these was from a year 
before his application. Mr J had five defaults recorded between August 2014 and 
June 2015. While these were more than a year old at the time of application, given 
the number I thought this should have raised some concerns.
Moneybarn had Mr Js bank statements and saw his expenditure for the two months 
prior to the agreement. I reviewed the two months of bank statements and these 
showed that Mr J was paying around £800 for food, fuel and phone. He explained 
that the cash withdrawals were also used to pay his expenses and these averaged 
around £750 across the two months. Even if the full amount of the cash withdrawals 
wasnt included as expenses but accepting a significant part would be, I found that 
his expenses against an income that in some months would be around £1,500, 
meant that payment of just under £400 was unlikely to be sustainably affordable.
Mr Js bank statements showed that he didnt have a balance over the repayment 
amount due under the agreement at any point during the two months for which 
statements were provided (aside for at one point when he received a payment of 
over £500 but the balance reduced the same day). I thought this further supported 
that taking on 41 monthly repayments of £396 months wasnt affordable. Therefore, I 
didnt think that Moneybarn acted fairly by approving the finance.
I didnt receive any new information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think that Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount 
of information before providing the finance. However, I think that had it considered this fully it 
would have realised that the repayments due under the agreement werent sustainably 
affordable for Mr J. Therefore, I dont think that Moneybarn acted fairly by approving the 
finance.
As no new information was provided in response to my provisional decision, my conclusions 
havent changed, and I am upholding this complaint. 
Putting things right
As I dont think Moneybarn ought to have approved the lending, I dont think its fair for it to 
be able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. Mr J should therefore only 
have to pay the original cash price of the car, being £11,100. Anything Mr J has paid in 
excess of that amount should be refunded as an overpayment.
To settle Mr Js complaint Moneybarn should do the following:
Refund any payments Mr J has made in excess of £11,100, representing the original 
cash price of the car. It should add 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
each overpayment to the date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Js credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn to take off tax from this interest. Moneybarn 
must give Mr J a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr J asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman