DRN-2220835
The complaint
 Mr H complains about UK Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim he made on a home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
 Mr H has a home insurance policy with UKI. In 2018, his property was damaged by 
subsidence and he made a claim on the policy. 
In 2019 Mr H complained to UKI about the way the claim had been handled, and its refusal 
to cover some items which had been claimed. I wont go into detail of all of Mr Hs complaint 
points, as theyre well known to both parties and a resolution to many of them has been 
agreed prior to this decision. When it responded to his complaint, UKI recognised that its 
handling of the claim could have been better and paid £300 compensation to Mr H.
Mr H was dissatisfied with UKIs response to his complaint and brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigator thought that UKI should cover the reasonable costs of comparable 
alternative accommodation for the period when repairs were being carried out to the 
property; and arrange for doors and frames to be inspected, and lasting and effective repairs 
to be carried out. UKI, and Mr H, agreed with these proposals.
There were a number of aspects of the complaint for which UKIs intended course of action 
was, in our investigators opinion, reasonable in the circumstances. These were related to 
the replacement of tiles; the potential underpinning of the property; the need for a structural 
engineers report; the replacement of trees at the property; and the storage of items during 
repairs to the property. Mr H has now agreed with these points.
At the conclusion of our investigators review of the complaint, two main issues remained 
unresolved and not agreed by both parties.
Our investigator thought that UKI should pay and additional £200 in compensation to Mr H, 
making £500 in total, to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused by UKIs poor 
handling of the claim. UKI disagreed with this.
Our investigator also thought that UKI should cover the costs of replacing a wardrobe that Mr 
H had said had been damaged by the subsidence. UKI disputed this and argues that the 
damage to the wardrobe was a result of wear and tear, and so isnt covered by the policy.
As no agreement could be reached on the compensation and wardrobe issues, the case has 
come to me for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr H and UKI are in agreement about the issues our investigator thought UKIs proposals 
were reasonable, and the issues around alternative accommodation and the doors and 
doorframes, I dont intend to cover those aspects in detail within my decision. Im going to 
focus on the areas which UKI are disputing: the compensation and the wardrobe. I will 
reference the structural engineer aspect as part of my considerations around the wardrobe.
The compensation
UKI argues that the increased compensation our investigator said should be paid hasnt 
been justified and that the £300 its already paid is adequate in the circumstances.
The starting point for any award of compensation is that it is only applicable where there 
have been issues in the way a claim has been dealt with by an insurer. The mere existence 
of a claim isnt enough to warrant compensation. There will always be an element of 
inconvenience and distress which arises when an insurance claim is made.
Similarly, the length of time alone that a claim lasts before its resolved isnt enough for me to 
say that compensation should be paid. Any claim for damage to a property, especially claims 
related to subsidence, will take some time to be resolved.
Nevertheless, it is conceded by UKI that it could have handled this case better. Thats why it 
paid £300 compensation. So I need to assess whether this figure is reasonable given the 
poor service which has been noted and acknowledged.
The issues which have been identified can, I think, be broadly placed into one of two 
categories. There were some which caused inconvenience to Mr H, by meaning he had to 
spend more time dealing with the claim than he should have done, and those which would 
have caused distress by leaving him concerned about was happening at the property.
In terms of the matters causing inconvenience, Im satisfied that there were occasions on 
which UKIs communications with Mr H fell below the standard expected. There seems to 
have been a lack of pro-active contact with him to explain what was happening with the 
claim, which meant that he was having to contact UKI to find out what was happening and 
when the claim would be progressed. 
Its accepted that a number of visits were required by UKIs representative to establish the 
cause and extent of the damage, and assess what repairs were going to be required. But its 
also evident that within these visits, matters which could have been attended to werent, 
which meant that an extra visit was required.
When the damage had been assessed, a schedule of works was prepared outlining the 
repairs which would be carried out. But its accepted that this was incomplete and as a result 
Mr H had to spend time reviewing and amending this before further discussions with UKI 
ensued. 
Id highlight three main issues which I think caused Mr H distress. Mr H was initially informed 
that tree removal wouldnt be covered by the policy. This was incorrect and was corrected by 
UKI. Mr H was aware that the trees were causing the movement. So he was in a position 
where UKI were suggesting that the cause of the damage to his property wouldnt be 
removed by his insurer. While UKI did correct its error, Mr H was, for a short period, left with 
a difficult and unclear situation regarding the trees.
When UKI did come to remove the trees, it also seems that Mr H was told that those within 
five metres of the property would have to be removed. This meant that he thought that only 
one tree would need to be removed. It later turned out that more trees needed to be removed to prevent movement. Again, this would have been potentially confusing for Mr H 
and I think that this could have been communicated better to him.
Finally, and most significantly in my opinion, is that there was a five month period where 
doors to the property didnt close properly. UKI was aware of this and, Im satisfied, didnt act 
quickly enough to put in place temporary repairs so that the doors could be closed and 
locked. This led to Mr H putting chairs in front of the doors at night to stop them opening. I 
can understand that feeling that the property wasnt secure for this length of time would have 
been upsetting and stressful for Mr H.
So in light of these issues, in particular around the delays to putting in place temporary 
repairs to the doors, I dont think that £300 compensation was sufficient. Without the door 
issue, Id have likely agreed that £300 was fair in the circumstances. I think that a further 
£200, as recommended by our investigator, properly recognises the distress and 
inconvenience caused to Mr H by UKIs errors.
The wardrobe
UKIs gives several reasons for why it doesnt consider that it should cover the replacement 
of the wardrobe. It notes that when its representatives first attended the property in 2018 to 
inspect the damage caused, Mr H didnt mention the wardrobe as having been damaged. 
UKI doesnt seem to dispute that it was told by Mr H in 2019 that there was an issue with the 
wardrobe, and that Mr H had indicated he believed that this had been caused by 
subsidence. This was before UKIs representative was due to attend the property again to 
review the damage. It also doesnt appear to be disputed that the representative didnt 
inspect the wardrobe, as UKIs view that the damage was caused by wear and tear is based 
on inspection of a photograph of the wardrobe provided by Mr H. When it said that it wasnt 
prepared to cover the damage to the wardrobe, Mr H said an expert engineer had inspected 
the wardrobe and said it had been damaged by subsidence. It was suggested that a report 
to this effect would be sent to UKI, but none was received.
After this, Mr H has reported that the door to the wardrobe became stuck, and so in order to 
gain access to the contents of the wardrobe, it was necessary to break the doors, which then 
led to the whole wardrobe being removed and disposed of. This means that theres no way 
for anyone to inspect the wardrobe now and give a definitive indication of the cause of the 
damage.
Ordinarily in circumstances where an item has been disposed of before an insurer has had 
the opportunity to inspect it to confirm that the cause of the damage is covered, wed say 
that the policyholder had prejudiced the insurers position, and wouldnt ask it to cover the 
item. But Im satisfied that things are different here. 
The key point for me is that, prior to an appointment where UKIs representative was going 
to be attending the address, Mr H did inform UKI that there was damage to the wardrobe. So 
its clear that UKI was told about the damage before it was disposed of, and Im unsure why 
UKI didnt arrange for its representative to inspect the wardrobe, which would have assisted 
in establishing the cause of, and extent of, the damage. So the mere fact that the item has 
been disposed of doesnt mean that cover shouldnt be afforded.
UKI also says that the damage itself, even if caused by subsidence, would have been limited 
to the runners which could have been replaced. Mr H says that the veneer of the doors had 
also been warped. The exact extent of any insurable damage is, I think, of limited relevance 
at this point. The wardrobe had to be further damaged, and then disposed of, because the 
doors werent opening, meaning that Mr H couldnt access the contents. This was after UKI had said it wouldnt be able to cover the wardrobe. I think it was reasonable to further 
damage and dispose of the wardrobe when it became essentially unusable.
The final point in dispute here is what the cause of the damage was. UKI relies on its 
representatives interpretation of photographs to say that the damage was related to wear 
and tear, not subsidence. Mr H relies on the advice of an engineer who had inspected the 
wardrobe and said that the damage was caused by subsidence. However, theres no written 
report from the engineer to this effect.
The reason why theres no written report would seem to be connected to one of the issues 
which our investigator said UKI had acted fairly on. Mr H wasnt satisfied that UKIs proposed 
course of action, removing some trees, would prevent future subsidence. He wanted the 
costs of an engineers report to be covered by UKI. UKI had said it would cover the costs if 
the report established there was ongoing movement or further matters which needed to be 
resolved. Our investigator thought this was fair, and Mr H has now accepted this. 
The reason I mention this is that Mr H has indicated that an engineer did attend the property 
but to obtain a full report would incur a fairly substantial fee, which he didnt want to incur if 
there was no guarantee that UKI would reimburse him. So it seems that the engineer, as 
part of their initial investigations, has viewed the wardrobe and indicated that the damage 
was caused by subsidence.
This leaves me with an issue to resolve. UKI relies on its representative, who hasnt 
inspected the damage themselves but has looked at photographs of it to say that the 
damage is wear and tear. Mr H relies on an undocumented opinion from an engineer. 
On balance, Im persuaded that an engineer has seen the damage, and concluded that it 
has been caused by subsidence. I say this because its been Mr Hs position throughout his 
correspondence with UKI and our service, and that the attendance and involvement of the 
engineer wasnt linked solely to the damaged wardrobe. It was part of a wider set of 
enquiries which werent followed up by Mr H for well established reasons, and so its 
unsurprising that theres no written report. Im also persuaded that it isnt reasonable for UKI 
to rely solely on its representatives interpretation of the photographs when it had the 
opportunity to inspect the damage itself, but didnt do so.  
On that basis, I think its more likely than not that the wardrobe was damaged by 
subsidence. Im satisfied that an engineer who inspected it concluded that the damage had 
been caused in this way. And as thats the case, its fair to require UKI to cover the cost of 
replacing the wardrobe on a like-for-like basis. It would be entitled to make any deductions 
from this settlement that it would ordinarily make in line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint in part. To put things right, UK Insurance 
Limited must:
Pay an additional £200 compensation to Mr H, making £500 in total. UKI must pay 
the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr H accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Cover the cost to replace the wardrobe on a like-for-like basis, less any normal 
deductions as set out in the policy terms and conditions.
Provide comparative alternative accommodation for Mr H and his family for the 
duration of the repairs.
Arrange for doors and doorframes at the property to be inspected, and for a lasting and effective repair (or replacement) to be carried out on those damaged by subsidence.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
 
Ben Williams
Ombudsman