DRN-4033915
The complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-informed her about her mortgage 
options when she enquired about a transfer of equity for her property. Now she has ended 
up paying more on her mortgage than should be the case and her father has had to pay 
stamp duty. Miss M would like to be compensated for this.
What happened
Miss M had a mortgage in joint names with her ex-partner and wanted his name removed 
from the mortgage. But she says Nationwide wouldnt allow the mortgage in her sole name 
but required her father to be added to the mortgage. Miss M says that she was initially 
assured that she could move the mortgage into her sole name with the term extended which 
would reduce the payments on the mortgage. But with the addition of her father, the 
mortgage payments have increased.
Miss M and her ex-partner secured a product switch in July 2022 ready to come into effect in 
November 2022. The new fixed rate product was on a rate of 3.4% with a contractual 
monthly payment (CMP) of £881.62. Miss M wanted to take the mortgage into her sole 
name and if the mortgage term was extended from 27 to years to 37 years. she would be 
paying £742.87 per month which she says would make the mortgage affordable in her sole 
name. Miss M says that Nationwide agreed to do this in two conversations in September 
2022. But later Nationwide said that to take the mortgage into her sole name was 
unaffordable. So, she had to get her father to join in the mortgage but as he already has his 
own property he has had to pay Stamp Duty of £4,364.00.
Nationwide accepted that it raised Miss Ms expectations and credited Miss Ms account with 
£250 compensation. Our investigator agreed that this compensation was fair and in line with 
what this service awards for mismanaged expectations. Miss M disagreed and asked for a 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M contacted Nationwide about a transfer of equity/change of borrower application. I 
have listened carefully to the relevant calls and read the evidence on file. In the phone calls 
in September, Miss M enquires about transferring the joint mortgage to herself on the same 
term as the existing mortgage. Although this was unaffordable, there were other options 
including help from Miss Ms father and lower borrowing or extending the mortgage term to 
37 Years. The representative suggested this extension as a possibility and that a mortgage 
in Miss Ms sole name could be achieved. But firstly, a change of term application would 
need to be done by Miss M and the joint borrower and then Miss M would need to do a 
charge of borrower application. 
From listening to these phone calls, I formed the view, as did Miss M, that as the 
representative had done an assessment that affordability would not be an issue. Although 
the representative prefaced her discussions by saying that she wasnt giving advice, it would 
have been reasonable I believe for Miss M to assume that indeed affordability with an 
extended term wasnt an issue which would have been a great relief for her given the stress 
she was under with the break-up of her relationship and the circumstances surrounding it. 
Indeed, I noted that Miss M queried the confidence with which the representative told her 
that affordability wouldnt be an issue as her partner, who had a greater income than her, 
had been refused a change of borrower application on affordability grounds.
Unfortunately, Miss M was unable to extend the term online and then had a phone call with a 
mortgage adviser who told her that the mortgage, regardless of the term extension, would be 
unaffordable in her own name. Miss M was also told that the timescales, which she 
understood from her previous conversations would apply to complete the transaction. would 
be longer than she had been informed. In the end Miss M had her father added to the 
mortgage but this then sparked a problem for him as he now had a share in two properties 
and so a stamp duty charge applied.
I have to consider whether Nationwide acted fairly. This was a transfer of equity where joint 
borrowers are being replaced by a single borrower. This isnt always straightforward, and an 
assessment will have to be done as to whether the single borrowers income will be able to 
afford the mortgage. Normally a transfer of equity will involve some payment to the other 
party for the equity in the property and I see that Miss Ms parents were taking care of that. 
The application was assessed in October. I can see from the notes that a careful 
assessment was conducted of Miss Ms expenditure and income and the difficulty flagged 
that even with the joint mortgage, that Miss M had very little excess funds each month which 
cast doubts on her ability to pay the mortgage on her own and the underwriters view was 
that Miss M would struggle to do that and so declined the application. At the same time as 
the refusal on 21 October Nationwide issued a Decision in Principle for a mortgage in the 
names of Miss M and her father. An application followed and, again, after a full assessment 
of the ability of the new joint borrowers to afford the mortgage, a decision to accept was 
made on 9 November 2022. In the meantime, I understand Miss M was able to retain the 
new mortgage product and the interest rate that came into effect on 1 November 2022.
My view is that in considering the transfer of equity application and what Nationwide could 
do for Miss M that Nationwide considered the relevant factors and that the decision it came 
to was fair within its lending criteria. A lender is entitled to look, as Nationwide did in October 
at Miss Ms finances, and come to a conclusion on the affordability of a mortgage based on 
its analysis of those. But I am concerned that the initial phone calls between Miss M and the 
mortgage representative gave Miss M an unrealistic view that she would get a mortgage with 
Nationwide on her own over an extended term.
Prior to that conversation I understand that her ex-partner, who earned more than her, was 
unable to get a mortgage on his own so she approached Nationwide on the basis that she 
would need parental assistance as a joint borrower. But the impression Miss M reasonably 
formed after those phone calls in September, from what she was told by the representative, 
was that a mortgage over an extended term would be possible and that affordability - the 
reason the application was refused - would not be an issue. I felt that the representative 
strayed onto territory that she neednt have done including suggesting what the likely legal 
costs would be and underemphasising what can be the complexities of a transfer of equity 
application and the timescales involved. 
 So, whilst Im satisfied that the application in October was dealt with fairly and in a timely and 
professional way by Nationwide, I take the view that Miss M would have believed from the 
September conversations that she could have achieved a mortgage on her own over an 
extended term without parental assistance and that the application would be straightforward. 
That said the conversations in September were only at a preliminary stage and I believe that 
Miss M would have been clear that the representative wasnt the person who decided on 
whether she got the mortgage or not.
I accept from the October application notes that Miss Ms application to manage the 
mortgage on her own was fairly considered and failed the affordability test so I dont accept 
that Nationwide should provide a mortgage to Miss M solely. I understand Miss M to believe 
that had the application been processed in September it would have passed. I think thats 
unlikely. The mortgage representative to whom Miss M spoke would not be making the final 
decision and the grounds which formed the basis of the final decision - that Nationwide after 
analysing Miss Ms finances wasnt satisfied that Miss M could afford the mortgage on her 
own - would have existed in September as it did in October when the negative decision was 
made. A mortgage representative who makes an initial assessment about affordability isnt 
the final decision-maker and its often the case that an initial indication of acceptance can 
change when a deeper analysis of a customers finances are made.
Miss M asked me to consider a remark made between the representative and her supervisor 
which indicated that the application would likely be successful but that was not at the 
decision stage but at a preliminary stage and when the application was considered in detail it 
was refused. So, I dont consider that conversation material to the decision-making process.
 
Transfer of equity applications can be complex transactions involving splitting not only the 
mortgage but also the title of property between parties who previously had a harmonious 
relationship. It can be drawn out and acrimonious so its important that Nationwide deals with 
the process in a reasonable timeframe. From my experience of this type of process, this 
transaction completed within a reasonable period.  Miss M retained her property, the 
mortgage product that Miss M wanted was retained. The difficulty is that she couldnt get the 
mortgage on her own and the prospect held out to her of a mortgage on her own wasnt 
fulfilled. That would have been disappointing.
I consider that if Miss M was given a more realistic timeline of the process and her mortgage 
prospects at the start that this complaint could have been avoided. Because of the initial 
over optimistic assessment and the failure to manage her expectations, this complaint 
should be upheld as it was in fact by Nationwide. I believe that Miss M would have suffered a 
degree of distress. Nationwide offered compensation of £250. Given that in my view 
Nationwide managed the process otherwise within a reasonable period to achieve what Miss 
M wanted which was the transfer of equity from her ex-partner I believe on balance that this 
sum is fair. So, although I uphold his complaint I wont be requiring Nationwide to pay further 
compensation.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. As Nationwide Building Society has already paid 
reasonable compensation to Miss M. I dont require it to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2023.
 Gerard McManus
Ombudsman