DRN-2588540
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain on behalf of P, a limited company, that the Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc closed Ps account. They also complain that P missed out on an account 
switching bonus and would like compensation for this. 
What happened
Mr M and Mrs M are the directors of a company called P. P had a bank account with RBS. 
On the 16 September 2019 RBS wrote to P to notify the business that their account would 
be closing in 2 months. And on the 15 November 2019 Ps account was closed. Mr M and 
Mrs M also had a personal account with RBS which was closed at the same time, Ill be 
considering this complaint in a separate decision. 
Mrs M, on behalf of P, attempted an account switch in October 2019, however the switching 
bank rejected the request. 
Mrs M complained to RBS about the account closure, that P had lost out on an account 
switching bonus due to RBSs actions and also didnt receive a payment instruction form. 
RBS upheld part of Ps complaint  the bank explained theyd followed the terms and 
conditions of the account when carrying out the closure. But apologised for the poor service 
provided when P was attempting to switch its account. 
Mrs M wasnt happy with RBSs response so complained to our service through a 
representative. 
One of our investigators looked into Ps complaint  but didnt uphold it. They thought RBS 
had followed their terms and conditions when closing Ps bank account and acted fairly in 
providing information to the switching bank. And didnt need to do anything further. 
Ps representative didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In response they said that P 
wasnt able to successfully switch their account. And theyd like compensation for the 
financial loss. 
As P didnt agree with the outcome its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an
account with a bank. But, before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which
adhere to the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of Ps account state that RBS can close the account for any 
reason by providing two months notice. Ive seen evidence that RBS gave P 2 months 
notice about the closure of their account by sending a letter on the 16 September 2019. Ive 
considered Ps request for an explanation regarding the closure of the account however RBS 
are under no obligation to provide reasoning. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr M and Mrs M and I appreciate the closure of Ps  
account caused the business inconvenience. But the bank can make commercial decisions 
about who it offers banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. 
But they can decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. Thats because they 
have the commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied 
that in Ps case RBS exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to close 
Ps account. 
Account switch 
Ive considered what happened with Ps rejected account switch. Ive seen the evidence 
provided by Mrs M to our service which explains why Ps account switch was rejected. I 
understand its frustrating for P that this switch wasnt successful however its my role to 
determine if RBS acted fairly in sharing information with the switching bank  and Im 
satisfied they did. Its for the switching bank to decide whether to open an account or not. 
I understand P are also unhappy that a payment instruction form wasnt included in the 
account closure letter. I appreciate this may have been the case, but Im not satisfied this 
caused P financial detriment or prevented P obtaining its funds. 
For the reasons Ive outlined above I wont be asking RBS to do anything further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman