DRN-3772333
The complaint
X and Miss P complained that Gresham Insurance Company Limited (Gresham) unfairly 
declined their claim under their home insurance policy.
What happened
X and Miss P made a claim to Gresham for damage to their main roof following a storm. A 
few days later X and Miss P noticed some further damage to their garage roof (which was an 
outbuilding at the bottom of their garden). X and Miss P said in our local area extensive 
damage was sustained. Our neighbours 30-foot tall eucalyptus tree was uprooted, our fence 
was destroyed, and roof damaged. Properties in the immediate area lost roofs, fences and 
garages.
Gresham accepted the claim for the damage to the main roof and paid a cash settlement. 
After been notified about the damage to the garage, X and Miss P provided photos of this 
and quotes for what the repairs would cost. Gresham also sent a surveyor to review and 
validate this part of the claim. Gresham requested a copy of the pre-purchase house survey 
that was completed from when X and Miss P bought the property.
Following a review of the pre-purchase survey and the report produced by the surveyor, 
Gresham decided to decline the claim. It concluded that the garage was in a dilapidated 
state prior to the storm. So, the damage wasnt covered by the policy as the garage wasnt 
kept in good condition. It said the main cause of the damage was thought to be wear and 
tear. Gresham said the storm had merely highlighted the poor condition of the building.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought Gresham had been fair to 
decline the claim. He thought Gresham had provided evidence that the storm wasnt the 
main cause of the damage and it had fairly declined the claim in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. X and Miss P disagreed with our investigator, so the case has been 
referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have started by considering whether I think Covea were reasonable in declining the claim. 
When our service looks at a storm claim, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
Gresham have already paid X and Miss P for damage caused to their main roof during the 
storm. So, I think its clear that Gresham has agreed there were storm conditions around the 
time of the claim. So, Ill consider the next question.
Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Significant winds could result in tiles been blown from a roof or causing them to become 
dislodged. I think its possible that high winds couldve caused damage to property. 
Therefore, I will consider the next question.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
When declining the claim, Gresham said the pre-purchase survey states the garage and 
workshop are old, dilapidated and of poor quality. The floor is uneven and cracked and 
flooded in places. The workshop roof coverings are in almost total disrepair. Much of the 
joinery is damaged and rotten. I find this report persuasive  surveys done before house 
purchases are thorough and this report wouldve been done on the specific request of X and 
Miss P.
I have considered whether Gresham has been fair to decline the claim based upon this 
evidence. Gresham said X and Miss Ps policy confirms your duty to prevent loss or 
damage  you and any other person this insurance applies to must take all reasonable 
precautions to prevent accidents, loss or damage and keep insured property in good 
condition.
Gresham said whilst I appreciate the collapse of the roof happened during a storm, the 
weather event has highlighted the condition of the already dilapidated building and it has not 
been able to withstand the storm. It is therefore considered the main cause of the collapse 
appears to have been the pre-existing poor condition of the garage, which is not covered 
under the terms of the policy as this would be classed as wear and tear.
Therefore, in the absence of other information, I would say Gresham has been fair to decline 
the claim. It has provided evidence of wear and tear and as this is excluded from the policy, I 
dont think it would be reasonable to expect Gresham to cover this damage under the policy. 
It seems more likely that the pre-existing condition was the main cause of the damage.
However, X and Miss P said they had maintenance work carried out to their garage prior to 
the storm, so they didnt think the condition of the property was poor. I have considered this 
evidence. X and Miss P have provided an invoice that shows a roofing contractor carried out 
extensive work on the property around six months before the storm.
Unfortunately, I dont find this evidence supports the claim. The invoice explains the work 
that has been carried includes:
Strip old existing felt and and boards from flat roof
Install of new run using ferrins
Install of new interlocking osb boards
Install of two layers of mineral torch on underlay
Install of one layer of mineral torch on top layer felt
Lead redressed on joining wall
On examination of the invoice, it looks more likely to be the description of work carried out to 
the flat roof on X and Miss P main house. X and Miss P explained that they had work done to his flat roof at the same time, but he had a corrugated felt roof built / repaired on his 
garage also. The invoice is quite detailed, so I think if this was the case the details of this 
wouldve been clearly set out on the invoice.
I have been able to view the photographs taken by Greshams own surveyor who inspected 
the damage after the storm. I can see the roof of the garage looks old  it doesnt look like 
its been renewed or repaired within the last six months. I can see where X and Miss P have 
made some repairs to one of the walls with some new ply sheeting. However, the structure 
doesnt look of sound construction. I can see the surveyor wrote during my visit, I inspected 
the damage to your property and it appears the damage being claimed has not occurred as 
a result of any one-off insured event but is attributable to the poor condition of the 
outbuilding at the time.
Both expert reports (pre-purchase and Greshams surveyor) provide a consistent view that 
the damage wasnt caused by the storm, but it was caused primarily by the poor condition of 
the building. I havent seen any evidence from experts that provides a contradictory view. 
Therefore, I think Gresham have been reasonable in their conclusions and fair in declining 
the claim. So, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Gresham Insurance 
Company Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman