DRN-2825246
The complaint
In summary, Mr P has complained that Santander UK Plc provided him with a credit card 
when he wasnt able to afford it. 
What happened
In October 2016 Mr P opened a credit card account with Santander. He was provided with a 
credit limit of £5,000.
In its response to Mr Ps complaint, Santander said the credit card was taken out on an 
information only basis. It didnt think the credit card was unsuitable or that Mr P had been 
treated unfairly, or not given enough information. 
When Santander provided us with its file, it said part of the application details submitted, 
recorded that Mr P had declared his income as £47,000 and his regular outgoings as £650 
per month. So, it thought this had likely been the deciding factor in granting Mr P the credit 
card due to the apparent excess funds which would make the credit card affordable.
Mr Ps concerns were investigated by one of our investigators. She thought Santander 
shouldnt have provided Mr P with the credit card, as she didnt think he would be able to 
make the repayments on the account.
In response, Santander said in summary, that it carried out various checks on the 
affordability position of Mr P, such as assessing the credit file and other checks. It also said 
there were no concerns taking into account Mr Ps level of debt. It went on to say that his 
income of £47,000 taken against his existing level of debt and outgoing expenses of £500 a 
month, provided a sound foundation to provide the credit.  
In addition, it said the application was automated and was not manually approved by 
underwriting, and Mr Ps current account had been kept within the authorised overdraft. It 
acknowledged betting transactions on the account but didnt think it was its role to tell 
customers how to run their account. 
In response, the investigator said she thought Santander had carried out business focussed 
checks without considering the risks the additional lending would have on Mr P. In her view, 
it didnt carry out proportionate checks to ensure the lending was sustainably affordable for 
Mr P. She thought his management of his current account showed he was barely keeping on 
top of his finances.
In reply Santander said in order to bring the matter to a close, it was prepared to refund the 
interest and charges on the account. But it wasnt prepared to remove the adverse data from 
the credit file, as the credit was taken out online. It also felt its checks were appropriate and 
met the requirements of a responsible lender. It felt Mr P had to take responsibility for the 
accrued spend and how he used the card, so the adverse information would stay on his 
credit file. 
In response the investigator explained why she didnt agree with Santanders proposal. 
Santander said in response that it didnt think further checks had been necessary in this 
case. And the refund of interest was a gesture of goodwill rather than an admission that it 
had made an error. It asked that the case be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, the case has 
been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending complaints 
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
There are several questions that Ive thought about when deciding if Santander treated Mr P 
fairly and reasonably when it provided him with the credit card.
1) Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
P would be able to repay his credit card facility in a sustainable way? 
2) If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
3) Ultimately, did Santander make a fair lending decision?  
4) Did Santander act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Santander complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P 
would be able to repay his credit card facility in a sustainable way? 
The rules that Santander had to follow, required it to carry out checks that would enable it to 
reasonably assess, whether Mr P could afford to repay the credit card and the credit limit he 
was applying for. This is often referred to as an affordability assessment.
 
The rules dont set out what specific checks it needed to carry out, but they did set out that 
those checks needed to be proportionate to the circumstances of the application. I think what 
this meant in practice, was that the scope and extent of Santanders checks needed to 
reflect the nature of the credit he was being provided with, bearing in mind things such as 
the amount of credit, the interest rate, his financial circumstances and any indications of 
customer vulnerability.  
The checks to be carried as part of Santanders affordability assessment, needed to be 
borrower focussed. What I mean by this is that the checks needed to consider whether 
paying back the amount he borrowed on the credit card, would cause Mr P any difficulties or 
have any adverse consequences for him. This isnt an exhaustive list. 
With these principles in mind Ive thought about whether Santander completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr P would be able to repay his credit card in a 
sustainable way. So, I think that it was important for Santander to have conducted checks 
which gave it a thorough understanding of Mr Ps financial position and to scrutinise the 
information it gathered carefully, asking follow-up questions where necessary, before 
agreeing to lend.
Santander has said it did carry out some checks before it agreed to provide Mr P with the 
credit card. And this seems to be on the basis of carrying out a credit search, other unspecified checks, using Office of National Statistics (ONS) data, information provided by 
Mr P and its automated application process. It says it carried out an affordability assessment 
based on this information. 
It seems to me from what Santander has said, is that the focus of its application process for 
Mr P was more on whether or not he satisfied its lending criteria. And from what it has said 
about the application process, Im not satisfied from the information it has provided, that it 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks in respect of Mr Ps application.
I say this because Santander was providing Mr P with a significant credit limit of £5,000 for 
his credit card. And it appears to have taken what he told it about his income and expenses 
at face value without taking steps to verify the information he had given it.  And this appears 
to be supported by its statement that his income of £47,000 and his regular outgoings as 
£650 per month, was likely been the deciding factor in granting Mr P the credit card due to 
the apparent excess funds which would make the credit card affordable (my 
emphasis). 
 
It also appears to have relied on information from a credit reference agency, but it hasnt 
provided a copy of the credit file report that it obtained. So, it isnt clear to me from the 
information it has provided what those credit checks showed about Mr Ps circumstances at 
the time it provided him with the credit card facility. Or how the information it obtained and 
the checks it carried out suggested that the credit it was providing to Mr P was sustainably 
affordable for him. Its argument appears to be in this case, that this service should accept 
that the credit card was affordable for Mr P, because its automated application process 
approved Mr Ps credit card application. And the credit checks it carried didnt show any 
missed payments. These arent arguments that I find persuasive.
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
I think Santander should have ensured that the scope and extent of its checks were adapted 
to the circumstances of Mr Ps application. Mr P was applying for a credit card with a credit 
limit of £5,000, which I think was a significant level of credit.  
Mr P held a bank account with Santander, and I think it would have been able to verify his 
income and outgoings by reviewing the information it held about him. It only appears to have 
reviewed his bank statements after he had made his complaint. 
I think that if Santander had carried out these checks on Mr Ps finances in this way, it would 
have seen that his current account wasnt in a healthy state. I say this because, the account 
movement statements provided by Santander show that his account was heavily overdrawn 
in the weeks leading up to his applying for the credit card. And this suggests to me that Mr P 
wasnt in control of his finances and was having difficulties in managing them. And he also 
appears to have been in a cycle of taking out pay day loans, which should also have alerted 
Santander to question whether the credit card was affordable for him.
I dont intend to make a finding about whether the extent of Mr Ps gambling (either in 
absolute terms or as a proportion of his income) had become a habit or addiction which, in 
and of itself, made it irresponsible for Santander to have lent to him. Whilst that is clearly a 
risk, I believe a range of other indicators that Santander saw, or ought to have seen that Ive 
outlined above, which should have made it realise that it was unlikely Mr P would have been 
able to sustainably make repayments on his credit card, and that it wasnt appropriate to 
provide him with that credit. Our investigator explained to Santander that wed generally expect a lender to refund all 
interest, fees and charges added to any account that shouldnt have been provided and also 
remove any associated adverse information recorded on the consumers credit file. 
But while we have a general approach to how we might tell a lender to put things right if it 
has provided credit it shouldnt have, we can tell it to do something different and/or 
something more if theres a strong enough reason to say thats what would be fair and 
reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case. But, in this case, Santander 
hasnt explained why I should do something different, other than to say that that Mr P has to 
take responsibility for the accrued spend on the credit card account. And that it is obliged to 
record factually correct information.  
But what Santander hasnt acknowledged or understood is that the only reason Mr P had the 
credit card to use, was because it lent to him irresponsibly. I accept that hes had the benefit 
of the borrowing on the card. But I dont think its fair or reasonable for Mr P to have to deal 
with the implications of any adverse information on his credit file, when this information will 
be recorded about an account, which shouldnt have been provided to him in the first place. 
So, in these circumstances, Ive not been persuaded that theres a strong enough reason for 
me to depart from our usual approach to putting things right in upheld cases about 
unaffordable or irresponsible lending. And I think that Santander should remove any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of this credit card account.
Putting things right
 I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr P to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on a credit 
card that shouldnt have been provided to him. So, I think Mr P has lost out and Santander 
should put things right for him. Santander should: 
Refund any interest, fees and charges incurred on the credit card account. Any 
refunds should be applied to reduce Mr Ps outstanding balance. 
Check for any periods when Mr Ps payments would have been enough to clear his 
balance and, if this is the case, it should pay 8% annual simple interest* on any 
periods when Mr P would have been in credit.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of this 
credit card account. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from this interest. 
Santander should give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he 
asks for one. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive set out above, my decision is to uphold Mr Ps complaint about 
Santander Bank UK Plc. It needs to calculate and pay Mr P compensation using the 
methodology Ive set out above. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Simon Dibble
Ombudsman