DRN-3904267
The complaint
Mr M, a sole trader, complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
regarding the management of his business borrowing.
What happened
Mr M complained to RBS about a number of matters concerning his business borrowing. 
Part of the complaint was about the period when the bank brought Mr Ms accounts under 
the management of its Global Restructuring Group (GRG). The bank investigated his 
complaint as part of its GRG review and made an offer of compensation to settle a number 
of elements of his complaint about fees and interest. RBS didnt uphold the other parts of his 
complaint.
Mr M was unhappy with the banks response and referred a complaint to this service about 
the following points:
The transfer to GRG in 2010 was unreasonable and wasnt explained to him
The bank unreasonably charged a £22,800 arrangement fee and a 50% profit share 
fee
The bank unreasonably increased the interest rate to 3.5% over base in 2009, and 
charged a default interest margin of 2.0% from 2010 onwards
The bank refused to restructure the facilities
The bank unfairly forced him to sell his properties, without separation of titles, 
causing these consequential financial losses: 
Lost opportunity to earn a decent return on the properties.
Sale of the properties at a lower value of £110,000 than they could have been 
sold for, if hed had more time.
Legal fees of £11,525 for the sales.
Lost rental income of £121,044
He was repeatedly not advised to take independent legal advice throughout his time 
being managed by the GRG
Having looked at the evidence, our investigator concluded that in respect of all these points, 
the bank didnt need to do anything further. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to review 
his complaint. His representative repeated that Mr M had been disadvantaged by being 
transferred to GRG. She said that the bank had been a willing lender, but after the 2008 
financial crisis it had called in the debt and placed businesses like Mr Ms under extreme 
pressure and distress.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, but Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator.
The transfer to GRG in 2010
In my view, the bank is entitled to organise the management of its work and staff in 
whichever way it considers best, as long as it treats its customers fairly. 
Mr Ms business was having financial problems at the time and found it difficult to meet its 
loan repayments. In those circumstances, I dont think it was unreasonable for RBS to move 
the management of the accounts to a specialist department.
Im satisfied that RBS sent Mr M a letter, in advance, explaining the move to GRG. There 
seems also to have been a meeting at the same time to discuss it. A further copy of the letter 
was also emailed to Mr M the following month. I think the bank acted fairly and reasonably in 
its communications about transferring the accounts to GRG.
The arrangement fee
Its common practice for banks to charge arrangement fees for business lending. I think the 
price at which lending is offered is a matter for the banks legitimate commercial discretion. 
The arrangement fee that Mr M complains about was £22,800 for a loan of £1.14m, which 
was a 2% fee. At the time, RBS typically charged arrangement fees of between 1.5% and 
3.0% in its general business lending. Im therefore satisfied that Mr Ms fee was within the 
range routinely charged by the bank. 
For these reasons, I dont think RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably when it charged the 
arrangement fee.
The profit share fee
There was a proposal for a profit share fee for a loan in 2012, but theres no evidence that 
such a fee was ever charged. I therefore satisfied that Mr M suffered no loss in this respect.
The interest rate increase in 2009
In May 2009, Mr M refinanced his borrowing. There was a new loan agreement with an 
interest rate margin of 3.5% above base. Mr Ms previous facility had a margin of 2.0%.and 
he complains that the margin increase was unfair.
In general, I regard the interest rates offered by banks to be a matter of their own 
commercial judgement and risk assessment. In Mr Ms case, Im satisfied that that the new 
margin was in line with RBSs wider lending practice at the time and wasnt unfair.
Mr Ms borrowing had increased and the banks assessment of his risk profile had changed. 
According to the banks general lending criteria at the time, the margin on the refinanced 
agreement could have been set at as high as 5.5% above base, given Mr Ms circumstances 
 so the actual margin of 3.5% set by RBS on Mr Ms borrowing was less than the bank 
might reasonably have charged.
 For these reasons, I dont think RBS acted unfairly or unreasonably when it set an increased 
margin in the 2009 agreement.
The default interest
Between September 2010 and August 2012, the bank charged an additional 2.0% interest 
because the loan was in default. The default margin was then lowered to 0.5% until a new 
loan was agreed in December 2012.
By September 2010, the repayment date for the loan had already passed, so Im satisfied 
that there had been an event of default. The loan contract stated that in those 
circumstances, an additional 2.0% may be charged. Im therefore satisfied that RBS was 
entitled to charge default interest at that rate.
Given the default and the banks assessment that the risk profile of Mr Ms business had 
increased, I dont find that the RBSs decision to charge default interest was unfair or 
unreasonable.
The restructuring of facilities and the sale of properties
Mr M argues that following the financial crisis he would have preferred not to sell his 
properties, but instead to use the rental return to service the debt, allowing time for the 
property market to recover and for improved sale prices to be achieved. He says the bank 
wasnt willing to wait and unreasonably declined to restructure the debt when it became due. 
Instead, he says the bank forced the sale of his properties.
Our investigator said that it was intended that the original lending from 2007 should be 
repaid by the sale of properties within 12 months, but no properties were sold before 2011. 
The bank restructured or extended the lending in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012. She said the 
banks calculations, however, showed that the projected rental income wouldnt have 
covered the interest on Mr Ms outstanding borrowing. She also said that it wasnt possible at 
the time to know when the value of the properties would rise sufficiently for a profitable sale, 
and that in the meantime there was a risk that Mr Ms debt would become unaffordable. In 
the circumstances, she thought it was reasonable for the bank to require the sale of a 
property in 2011 to repay some of the borrowing. 
Further restructuring proposals were agreed as the lending was renewed in 2011 and 2012, 
with debt reduction milestones and repayment expected from property sales. No properties 
were sold by the end of 2012 and the bank agreed that all could be sold in 2013. The 
investigator pointed out that despite the fact that the properties werent sold until 2014, the 
bank didnt appoint LPA receivers. She was satisfied that the estate agents were instructed 
solely by Mr M throughout. 
For the same reasons, I agree with the investigator that the bank showed forbearance by 
repeatedly renewing the lending, and that it didnt unreasonably force the sale of the 
properties.
I find that RBS didnt act unreasonably or unfairly regarding the renewal and restructuring of 
facilities or in requiring the sale of properties.
The separation of titles
Mr M says that the group of five properties sold in 2014 could have achieved a better price 
with separate titles, but RBS prevented him from pursuing that. He said the bank pressured him to accept an offer from a buyer who wanted separation of the titles without an increase 
in price.
The investigator pointed out that the bank consented in 2009 to Mr Ms request for 
separation of two of the titles. RBS encouraged Mr M to market all the properties separately, 
which indicated that it was agreeable to further separation of titles, but Mr M made no further 
requests for separation until after hed agreed a price for the properties with a buyer in 2014. 
Mr M went ahead with the deal but says it was under pressure by the bank. The investigator 
said theres no contemporaneous evidence that the RBS refused to give Mr M more time to 
negotiate, but she thought it likely that the bank would have made it clear that it would prefer 
Mr M to continue with the sale. She didnt think this was unreasonable of the bank, given the 
length of time the properties had been on the market and the expiry of several deadlines for 
their sale.
Having looked at the evidence, I agree with the investigator. The bank had previously shown 
it was content for Mr M to separate the titles, but he had done that for only two of the five 
properties. I believe that when a buyer was secured for all the properties in 2014, the bank 
would have been concerned that a strategy of pursuing better prices for the separated titles 
would bring with it a considerable risk of the sale falling through. Given that Mr Ms facilities 
had expired repeatedly and the properties had been unsold for so long, I dont think RBS 
acted unfairly or unreasonably by making it clear that it preferred to see the deal completed. 
Independent legal advice
From what Ive seen, each loan agreement signed by Mr M during the period covered by this 
complaint included a heading recommending that he should take legal advice before 
entering the agreement. 
I therefore find that RBS didnt fail to inform Mr M of the need to take independent legal 
advice.
In conclusion
I find that RBS didnt act unfairly or unreasonably in respect of any of the points included in 
this complaint. I therefore dont find the bank responsible for any of the alleged losses.
In March 2020, the bank offered to pay Mr M compensation of £20,393.38 for the other 
points which were upheld in its GRG review. I understand that the banks offer is still open. If 
Mr M now wishes to accept that offer, he should contact The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman