DRN-1922707
The complaint
Miss J complains that, in 2013, Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a package bank account 
(PBA). 
What happened
Miss J had had a fee-free Classic bank account with Lloyds since 2012. In July 2013 this 
was changed to a Silver account. This was a PBA which cost £9.95 each month. Its 
benefits included European travel insurance, mobile phone insurance, car breakdown 
insurance, Sentinel card protection, and an overdraft which was fee-free and interest-free for 
the first £50. 
By getting the Silver account, you didnt automatically get an overdraft  you had to apply for 
the overdraft and the bank had to approve it. 
Miss J says that, when she still had a Classic account, she asked for an overdraft, but the 
bank told her she didnt have a good enough credit record. She says a few months later she 
went into the branch and this time was given a £50 overdraft with a £6 per month fee, but 
only on condition that she have a Silver account; and so she agreed to upgrade to a Silver 
account. (However, Miss J has also said it was the bank who changed the account to a 
Silver one and she only found out when she received a letter about it.) She says the bank 
misled her, and she now knows she didnt have to have the Silver account to get an 
overdraft.
One of our adjudicators looked at the evidence and said they thought the complaint shouldnt 
be upheld. Miss J didnt agree, and so the matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On our website, weve set out our approach to the sale of packaged bank accounts. Ive 
kept that approach in mind when considering this case.
First, I will consider whether Miss J was given a fair choice in taking out the account. Miss J 
says she was told that she had to take out the account in order to get an overdraft, and she 
says the upgrade was carried out by Lloyds.
I have carefully considered this but overall, based on all the information that I have been 
given, Im satisfied its likely Miss J took out the Silver account online, without the presence 
of Lloyds staff. I understand that Miss J may have thought she needed to take out the 
account in order to get an overdraft, but there is not enough for me to say that this was due 
to Lloyds actions. After all, if a member of staff wanted to sell Miss J a Silver account, I 
would have expected the sale to have been carried out in branch or over the phone. This 
would be to allow that member of staff to receive the credit for the account opening  rather 
than them directing Miss J to take it out online.
It seems more like that Miss J is remembering being told that she needed to take out the 
Silver account if she wanted to avoid paying fees on a £50 overdraft, rather than to get any 
overdraft at all. I say this because, at the time the account was taken out, one of the main 
benefits was that the first £50 of the overdraft was fee free and interest free. Whereas, if 
Miss J used an overdraft on her old Classic account, she would be charged £6 a month. So 
as long as Miss J stayed within the first £50 of her overdraft, she would be saving £6 a 
month.  So, although I cant be sure, its likely that this discussion is what Miss J recalls; and 
that she was told this when she took out the overdraft in the branch, several months after the 
account was opened. Given this, I think its more likely than not that Miss J took out the 
account herself, after being given a fair choice.
As this account was likely taken out online, I am satisfied that this was an non-advised 
sale. This means Lloyds didnt need to ensure the account was right for Miss J. Instead, it 
had to give Miss J enough information to allow her to decide this for herself.
From what we know about Lloyds online sales of these accounts, Miss J would have been 
given information about the choice of accounts, and the benefits that came with them. It was 
then up to her to decide if the benefits were worth the monthly cost. 
It seems likely Miss J could have made some use of the European travel insurance, as she 
says that she did travel in Europe albeit infrequently. However, she has said shed had a 
medical condition since 2009; and this means any claims linked to that might not have been 
covered, although other claims could have been covered. I dont know how well Lloyds 
warned customers of this limitation in the travel insurance policy, and its possible Miss J 
would have thought the travel insurance of limited usefulness to her.
But I dont think better information about the travel insurance is likely to have affected 
whether Miss J took the Silver account. I say this because, as stated above, Miss J says she 
rarely travelled and I think that it was the remaining benefits such as the mobile phone 
insurance which would have seemed useful  and Miss J has confirmed she made a couple 
of claims on it later; and it seems that a large part of her reason for taking the Silver account 
may have been to make use of the free £50 overdraft(even though she wasnt actually given 
permission for this overdraft until six months later). 
Miss J has said her English is not very good. But, as it is likely that she changed her bank 
account online (which I realise she is sure she didnt) then it would be her choice to proceed 
if she did not understand what she was agreeing to; or she could have gone into the branch 
and explained she needed help understanding. So, I dont have evidence to show that 
Lloyds acted unfairly on this point.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman