DRN-3673071
The complaint
Mr L complains that National Westminster Bank Plc was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr L was provided with a £15,000 loan by NatWest in December 2020. He also says he was 
provided with a £2,500 overdraft and credit card with a £2,500 limit. He says the lending was 
unaffordable and that adequate checks werent carried out.
NatWest said that before providing the loan it carried out its standard affordability checks 
and that Mr L passed these. The checks include assessing information from Mr Ls account 
and a credit check. It said based on its checks the loan repayments were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that given the term of the loan and the 
repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ls circumstances at the time and his 
history with the lender, it wouldve been proportionate for NatWest to ask for the amount of 
information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. He said that the information 
provided didnt suggest further verification was needed and so he didnt think NatWest was 
wrong to provide the loan. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said the total lending by NatWest was more than his annual income 
and that had adequate checks taken place it would have realised it was unaffordable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When providing credit, NatWest needs to ensure this isnt provided irresponsibly. This 
means that NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr L before providing it.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website. 
I note Mr Ls comments about his complaint being about the total amount of lending. While 
this decision relates to the loan that Mr L was provided with, I have taken into consideration 
the other credit he had outstanding at the time and thought whether this meant that NatWest 
acted reasonably by providing the loan.  
Before the loan was provided, NatWest gathered information about Mr Ls income and 
expenses. It also carried out a credit check. The credit check provided shows limited 
information, but I cannot say that without further evidence this raises concerns that meant 
further checks were required. I have looked at the information available to NatWest and can 
see this confirms Mr Ls monthly income as around £1,377 in the months leading up to his 
loan application. I have looked through Mr Ls bank statements for the three months leading 
up to the agreement. I dont find that these show signs of financial difficulty. The statements 
record several regular committed expenses such as payments for utilities and other credit. 
These totalled on average around £640 a month. As the repayments under the agreement 
were for £266, this would still leave around £470 a month for other living costs such as food 
and fuel. 
In conclusion, considering the size of the repayments and the term of the loan I think the 
checks carried out were reasonable. Having looked at the information available to NatWest I 
do not find that this suggests the loan was unaffordable. Therefore, I do not find I have 
enough to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman