DRN-3378770
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Santander UK Plc dealt with his mortgage application, 
and about customer service issues. Mr G is unhappy that he was charged an early 
repayment charge (ERC) and about Santanders level of communication.
What happened
Mr G had a mortgage taken out with Santander in December 2019 that was on a five-year 
fixed rate product of 3.24% until 2 November 2024. If Mr G repaid the mortgage during the 
fixed rate period, he would have to pay an ERC of 5% of the amount repaid. However, the 
mortgage terms allowed the interest rate product to be transferred (ported) onto another 
mortgage, subject to meeting Santanders lending criteria. The terms and conditions of the 
mortgage state that in order to receive a refund of the ERC on porting an interest rate 
product, the old mortgage must be repaid at the same time the new mortgage is taken out.
In July 2021 Mr G wanted to move house and port his mortgage interest rate product onto 
the new property. At that point, the mortgage balance was approx. £120,500 and Mr G 
thought his property was worth £160,000, giving a loan-to-value ratio (LTV) at that point of 
about 75%. He said he was looking to buy at £120,000 and already had a decision in 
principle from another lender. 
Mr G said he intended to use the £30,000 equity to pay off debts of £17,000. Its not entirely 
clear how Mr G would be paying the deposit for his new purchase, because he told 
Santander he was intending to pay this out of the equity in his existing property. As I stated 
above, in order to port the mortgage, the sale and purchase needs to be simultaneous so the 
new mortgage is taken out on the same day the old mortgage is repaid. As the equity isnt 
released until completion, Mr G would also have needed to find the deposit for his new 
property before completion of the sale.
Santander explained that it wouldnt be possible for Mr G to port the full £120,500 onto a 
property costing about the same, as this would be a 100% LTV. In order to keep the LTV the 
same Mr G would either have to purchase at the same price he was selling for, or borrow 
less and pay an ERC on the amount repaid in order to stay within the permitted LTV.
Mr G had a buyer for his property for £160,000 and found a property to buy for £130,000. 
Mr G wanted to port the full amount of the mortgage, £120,500, which would give a LTV of 
about 95%. 
Initially Mr G discussed adding his partner to the mortgage. He didnt think there would be 
any problem with the application, but Santander declined it as a result of credit scoring. 
Santander looked at the application in Mr Gs sole name, and although it looked at first as if 
this would be approved and a Decision in Principle was issued, after a more detailed look at 
Mr Gs finances, Santander said a full application would be declined. This was because of 
the level of unsecured debt. Although Mr G said hed be repaying this out of the proceeds of 
sale, Santander needed to take it into consideration for its affordability assessment at the 
point of application. Santander said it could look at lending Mr G a lesser amount, which 
would need a full review of his finances, but Mr G didnt want this. 
Mr G had secured a mortgage offer through a mortgage broker with another lender, 
borrowing £130,000 on a 90% LTV at a fixed rate of 2.83% until 31 August 2023. He repaid 
the mortgage to Santander, incurring an ERC of about £6,000. Mr G wasnt happy about 
this, and raised a complaint, which Santander didnt uphold.
Mr G complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service, where an investigator looked at 
what had happened. He noted that the new mortgage would have been at a 95% LTV. He 
noted Mr Gs argument that when the mortgage was granted in 2019 the LTV was 95%. But 
he also noted that since the original application, Mr G had accrued debts of £17,000 which 
affected Santanders affordability assessment. 
Although regulations allowed lenders to dispense with affordability checks in certain 
circumstances, the investigator didnt think Santander was acting unreasonably in assessing 
affordability in Mr Gs case. As a result, the investigator was satisfied Santander was entitled 
to decline the application.
Mr G accepted that Santander was justified in charging the ERC and that it had been 
correctly charged. But he also said that Santander, rather than just offering him reduced 
borrowing, should have offered him alternative options, such as a product with a lower 
interest rate. Mr G said that hes now benefitted from a lower interest rate with his new 
lender, but thinks Santander should have given him this option.
Mr G also said that if Santander had explained that it was the LTV that was the issue, he 
might have made different decisions.
The investigator took note of this, but wasnt persuaded that Mr G would have reduced his 
mortgage balance to port with Santander, as this was mentioned to Mr G by Santander and 
rejected. He also thought that the relationship between Mr G and Santander had 
deteriorated to the point where further discussion wasnt likely to be fruitful.
Mr G disagreed with this, and said that Santander should have looked at other options, such 
as a new product with a lower interest rate. He also said that the reason the relationship 
broke down was because Santander failed to call him back during the stressful process of 
moving house.
As the matter is unresolved, it falls to me to issue a decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ERC: Mr G accepts that Santander was entitled to charge the ERC after rejecting his porting 
application. However, for the sake of completeness, I have looked at what happened here.
There are rules in place that cover this type of situation and that I have to consider. These 
rules followed on from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Mortgage Market Review 
(MMR). The MMR led to a series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way 
residential mortgages are regulated. MMR rules have brought about requirements for stricter 
lending assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act 
more responsibly. The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make 
changes to their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed the tests under the 
old rules, but not under the new rules. So the FCA introduced certain rules to address this. Mortgage Conduct of Business Rules (MCOB) 11.6.3 say that a lender doesnt have to carry 
out an affordability assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage 
and there is no additional borrowing, (other than for product fees) and no changes to the 
terms of the mortgage that affect affordability. 
Santanders lending policy is that, where a porting request exceeds a 75% LTV, it will carry 
out an affordability assessment. Although the initial mortgage in 2019 had been for a 95% 
LTV, by 2021 it was down to about 74%. So the request to port involved a change in the 
existing LTV to a much higher one.
Mr G wanted to port about 95% LTV, and so I think it was reasonable for Santander to 
consider affordability, including Mr Gs existing commitments at the point of the application. 
This is because the increased LTV meant an increased risk to Santander. In addition, Mr G 
had explained to Santander that he was paying for items for his upcoming wedding on credit, 
and also had a large personal loan. 
Even though Mr G said he would be clearing some of his commitments out of the equity in 
the property, I think it was reasonable for Santander to explain that it would need to review 
Mr Gs finances if he wanted to port such a large LTV. It also wasnt clear where the deposit 
would be coming from. Mr G said he was going to use the equity in the existing property for 
the deposit. But on a simultaneous sale and purchase, the deposit has to be paid on 
exchange of contracts and so Mr G would need to have the funds already available  and 
the equity wouldnt be released to him until after completion of the sale.
I dont know if the application would have succeeded because Mr G didnt go ahead with it 
and instead went to a new lender. In the circumstances, Im not persuaded Santander is 
under any obligation to reimburse the ERC paid on redemption of the mortgage. 
Ive also looked at the figures if Mr G had kept the mortgage at a 75% LTV.
Mr G has said he was expecting to have £40,000 from the proceeds of sale of his existing 
property. In order to have stayed within the 75% LTV on his new purchase at £130,000, 
Mr G would have needed to reduce his mortgage to £97,500, meaning that hed have to find 
the difference in the purchase price of £32,500, in addition to which hed have to pay an 
ERC of 5% on the surplus £24,000 paid back to Santander (£1,200), as well as the costs of 
sale. 
This would have left Mr G with insufficient funds to clear his £17,000 debts  which he had 
said was one of his intentions in moving to a cheaper property and releasing equity. In turn, 
this would have had a knock-on effect on affordability of the mortgage, if Mr G still had his 
existing credit commitments.
In the circumstances, I think that even if Santander had agreed to port on a 75% LTV, this 
wouldnt have met Mr Gs needs. In addition, if the credit commitments couldnt be repaid, 
this would have affected affordability.
Customer service issues: Ive looked at the contemporaneous notes and I cant see any 
delays by Santander. Im also not persuaded Santander failed to explain the reasons why 
the informal applications  the first in joint names and the second in Mr Gs sole name  
were declined. The notes show there were discussions around affordability, and about the 
LTV and an explanation as to why Santander wasnt able to offer Mr G the mortgage he 
wanted.I dont think Santander was required to offer Mr G a product at a lower rate of interest either. 
Mr G was in a fixed rate which he had originally agreed to, so Santander would not have 
offered him a lower rate because this would have meant Mr G would have had to break his 
existing contract and pay the ERC  which would not have been in his best interests.  This 
would also have required a full affordability assessment. Mr G had made it clear to 
Santander that he had already been offered the mortgage he wanted with another lender at 
a lower interest rate. Mr G had engaged a broker to advise him about the best products 
available to him, and if a Santander mortgage had been the most suitable option, Id have 
expected the broker to have advised Mr G accordingly.
Conclusion: I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr G wanted. I understand that moving 
house is very stressful, and I can understand that having to pay the ERC was an unwelcome 
expense. But overall, Im unable to find that Santander has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman