DRN-4177269
The complaint
The estate of Mr B is unhappy that Leeds Building Society (LBS) wouldnt allow a 
withdrawal of money without a grant of probate.
This estate of Mr Bs complaint is brought to this service by the executor of the estate, the 
widow of the late Mr B, whom Ill refer to as Mrs S.
What happened
Mrs S went into LBS branch and asked that funds be released to her from her late-
husbands account because she had no access to money and was low on funds. LBS initially 
agreed to release £1,000 to Mrs S, but then later changed their mind. Mrs S wasnt happy 
about this, so she raised a complaint.
LBS responded to Mrs S and explained that they require a grant of probate to be obtained 
and provided to them before they will release money from the accounts of a deceased 
account holder. LBS also noted that they had looked to make an exception in Mrs Ss case, 
because she had explained that she was short of funds and had no access to money. 
However, when LBS looked into the matter, they found that Mrs S had an ISA account in her 
name which LBS offered to allow her to withdraw money from penalty free. As such, given 
that Mrs S did have access to money, LBS didnt feel that there were exceptional 
circumstances in this instance, and that therefore their requirement for grant of probate to be 
obtained should remain in place. Mrs S wasnt happy with LBSs response, so she referred 
her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel LBS had acted unfairly 
in how it had managed the situation and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs S remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I also note that Mrs S has provided several submissions to this service regarding her 
complaint. Id like to thank Mrs for these submissions, and I hope she doesnt consider it a 
discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in line with this services role as an informal 
dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mrs S notes that I havent addressed a specific point shes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both the estate of Mr B and LBS. Rather, it 
should be taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address 
it directly in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
It also must be noted that this service considers the estate of Mr B as the eligible 
complainant here, and not Mrs S herself in her personal capacity. This is because the 
complaint relates to accounts held in the name of the late Mr B, and because at the time of 
the events about which Mrs S complaints, Mrs Ss authority to access those accounts was 
dependent on her status as the executor of the estate of Mr B.
LBS have explained that, as per their process, they require grant of probate to be obtained 
and provided to them before they will allow funds held within an estates account to be 
released to the estates executors. And Im satisfied that this process isnt unreasonable or 
unfair and that its a commercial decision that LBS are entitled to make as to what its 
process in regard to estate accounts should be.
LBS also explained that they were willing to make an exception to their process in this 
instance because Mrs S had explained that she had no funds and no access to money. But 
LBS also explain that their decision to make an exception to their process was dependent on 
the circumstances that Mrs S described to them being accurate.
But those circumstances werent accurate, because Mrs S had an ISA account in her name 
and so did have access to the money held in that account. And while I can appreciate that 
Mrs S didnt want to withdraw any money from her ISA account, I dont feel that Mrs Ss 
unwillingness to do so should fairly or reasonably compel LBS to apply the exceptional 
circumstances clause and to act out of accordance with its own estate accounts policy. 
I also note that LBS confirmed to Mrs S that they would allow her to withdraw money from 
her ISA account on a penalty-free basis because that account represented her only access 
to money at that time. This feels fair to me, and I feel that it demonstrates that LBS did take 
Mrs Ss circumstances into account and tried to assist her.
Ultimately, it seems to me that Mrs Ss complaint here is that LBS should have respected her 
wish to not have to withdraw money from her ISA account and, as a consequence, should 
have allowed her to access the money in the estate of Mr Bs account without a grant of 
probate being obtained and so without LBSs requirements for her to do so being met. 
But I dont agree. Mrs S had access to money in her own name. And I feel its fair that she 
should be expected to withdraw the money in her own account rather than expecting LBS to 
allow her access to money in accounts owned by the estate which she hadnt yet met LBSs 
requirements to be able to access in her role as executor of the estate of Mr B.
On a personal level, I appreciate the events under consideration happened at a difficult time 
for Mrs S, and I offer my condolences for her loss. But in my professional capacity as an 
ombudsman, whereby I must be impartial and consider the eligible complainant here to be 
the estate of Mr B and not Mrs S in her personal capacity, I dont feel that LBS have done 
anything wrong or unfair here and so I wont be upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr B 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman