DRN-2906389
The complaint
Mr R complains about the pricing policy that British Gas Insurance Ltd (BG) used to 
calculate his home emergency insurance that he said he hadnt used.
What happened
Mr R had a home emergency policy which he renewed each year since 2014. Mr R was sent 
a renewal notice in 2020, in which he noticed that the premium was quite high. He felt that 
the amount BG were proposing to charge him was higher than the average house insurance 
and as he didnt use the policy, he contacted BG to complain about the cost. 
Mr R said that BG told him that his premium was calculated by using an algorithm which 
considered a lot of factors. Mr R felt this was unfair as those factors didnt take into 
consideration individual circumstances. During the call, BG offered Mr R a different level of 
cover which meant that his annual premium was reduced. Because of this reduction, Mr R 
believed that he had been overcharged over the years and raised a complaint with BG. 
Mr R sought a refund of his annual premiums. In BGs final response, it said that Mr R wasnt 
overcharged. The policy he had previously was a different product to the one he was now 
offered. It said that at the renewal stage of each policy he was notified what the level of 
cover would be and what the cost would be, if he chose to continue with the cover. It 
confirmed that it had not added on any other charges that hadnt been agreed to by Mr R to 
any of the previous policies. So, it wouldnt be refunding any of Mr Rs premiums. 
Mr R was not happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered his complaint and didnt uphold it. He said that BG had sent annual 
renewal notices to Mr R. Those notices provided details about the level of cover and the 
cost. As well as information about how Mr R could change or cancel the policy if he chose to. 
He acknowledged that Mr R was unhappy about paying for a policy that he hadnt used. But 
he said that the policy offered Mr R protection and the opportunity to use It, had he needed 
to. So, there was nothing further he could reasonably ask BG to do. 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigators view. He said that BG relied on algorithms to 
conduct sham annual reviews, that failed to take into consideration individual needs. He said 
that our service should be regulating companies such as BG, to stamp out these commercial 
practices as they exploited customers. He concluded that we arent equipped with the 
analytical and technological apparatus to grapple with the individual customer issues. So, he 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mr R, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I should say at the outset that my role is to look at whether BG has treated Mr R fairly and in 
line with how other customers have been treated. If I find that BG hasnt treated Mr R fairly, 
then I will look at the level of compensation that should be awarded. I should also make it 
clear that we cant tell insurers what factors it should consider when assessing the risk of a 
policyholder making a claim, or what price they should charge, in order to cover that risk. But 
we need to make sure theyre being consistent and not taking advantage of any groups of 
customers. 
In 2014 Mr R paid £237.34 per year for cover. Over the years the price increased and 
sometimes decreased, until he was paying £316.56 per year. I need to look at whether BG 
treated Mr R fairly and in line with how we would expect it to have treated other 
policyholders.
When a policyholder hasnt spoken to an insurer after receiving renewal quotes year after 
year and pays the renewal price without engaging with the insurer or shopping around for a 
cheaper quote, wed think its fair to say that they were inert. We would expect that an 
insurer ought to be aware that the policyholder wasnt engaging and not increase the 
premiums because of a policyholders inertia. 
Having reviewed the evidence, I dont think BG increased the premiums because of Mr Rs 
lack of engagement, and Ill explain why. It is common practice for insurance companies to 
offer a discounted premium for the first year and later increase the price in order to recoup 
the discount previously given. Also, it is usual for insurers to assess the risk, which may lead 
to an increase in the premiums. 
In Mr Rs case BG said that the premiums were affected because Mr R downgraded the 
policy to a cheaper one that didnt have the same kind of cover. Over the years, Mr R had 
made claims and the level of risk was affected because of the claims that Mr R made on the 
policy. But BG confirmed that it never made increases to the premium based on a 
customers length of tenure. And the longer the customers length of tenure meant the effect 
of claims on the policy was reduced to reward loyalty. 
BG confirmed that it wouldve assessed the risk and priced the policy the same way for any 
other customer in similar circumstances to Mr R. And having reviewed the pricing evidence, I 
am satisfied that BG calculated the premiums fairly.
I understand the strong views expressed by Mr R, that BG charged him excessively for the 
policy and that it calculated his premium based on an algorithm. But insurers are entitled to 
use this methodology to calculate premiums. Just because cheaper alternatives are 
available, this does not mean that the policies are identical (which was the case here), nor 
does it mean that BG treated Mr R unfairly. 
So, taking all of this into consideration, I dont think that BG has charged Mr R excessively 
nor do I think it treated Mr R unfairly. So, I wont be asking BG to do anything more to 
resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman