DRN-4484114
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about a claim he made on his Aviva Insurance Limited legal expenses 
insurance policy.
Mr L says Aviva treated him unfairly.
In this decision all references to Aviva include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr L made a claim on his Aviva Insurance Limited legal expenses insurance policy for cover 
to help with two claims relating to his property- one was in relation to noise nuisance and 
blocking of the entrance and exit to his property and the other was against the previous 
owners of his property for misrepresentation.
Aviva considered the claims and determined that they fell within cover in principle. As such 
they instructed their panel firm to consider whether the claims fell within the remaining terms 
of the policy.  The panel firm advised that as things stood, Mr Ls claims didnt have 
reasonable prospects of success as required by the policy. They said that in order for them 
to revise their advice, theyd need further evidence and information from Mr L. 
Mr L complained to Aviva. He was unhappy with the assessment and the fact that it had 
been carried out by a Paralegal. Aviva considered Mr Ls complaint but didnt agree that 
theyd done anything wrong. Unhappy Mr L referred his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. He said 
that Aviva was entitled to rely on the opinion of the panel firm in declining cover and that if 
Mr L wanted to challenge this, he could obtain his own legal opinion at his own cost.  He also 
thought that the instruction of a Paralegal was acceptable in circumstances where the legal 
advice provided was under the supervision of a qualified lawyer with suitable experience and 
the panel firm had confirmed this was the case in respect of the advice provided to Mr L. In 
addition, the investigator said that the delays Mr L complained of had no impact on the 
outcome of his claim as he wasnt able to establish he was entitled to cover in any event.
Mr L doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. This is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. Its a requirement of virtually all legal expenses
insurance policies that any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. Mr Ls 
policy is no exception. That means his claims needed to have over 51% prospects of 
succeeding in order for Aviva to cover them.
We dont think this is unfair. Litigation can be expensive. A privately paying customer
wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt expect a legal
expenses insurer to fund claims in these circumstances either.
Where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of
the underlying claim. Instead, and as the investigator explained, we look at whether the
insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we
wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong
or based on factual mistakes. Aviva did this. 
Im satisfied that the Paralegal that provided the advice to Mr L did so under the supervision 
of a suitably qualified lawyer who was experienced in the area of law Mr L was asking for 
help with and Ive seen nothing that suggests their advice was based on factual
Mistakes, such that it would alter the advice given. I appreciate Mr L doesnt agree with the 
advice he received and disputes that it was supervised at all, but I cant consider the quality 
of the legal advice given as that issue falls outside of my remit. And I cant agree that the 
advice Mr L received wasnt ultimately overseen by a suitably qualified lawyer when the 
panel firm have said it was. If Mr L remains concerned about this, then he can raise this with 
the panel firm directly or complain to the Legal Ombudsman. 
If, as Aviva said, Mr L was to supply an alternative reasoned opinion from a comparable 
lawyer, then I would expect Aviva to consider that. Avivas policy terms set out further detail 
on how he can do that.  Equally, if he provided Aviva with any new evidence or information 
that has now come to light that might change the outcome of his assessment (like a 
summary report from an acoustic consultant commenting on the issues raised by the panel 
firm in their assessment of the claim for noise nuisance) I would expect Aviva to refer that 
back to their panel firm. But as matters stand, I cant say Aviva did something wrong by 
relying on the legal opinion they received.
I appreciate that Mr L doesnt agree with the way in which his claim was handled. He doesnt 
feel it was fair that he wasnt entitled to choose his own Solicitor from the outset. But I dont 
agree. The policy terms make clear the prospects requirement and that a lawyer will assess 
his case to determine his chances of winning. So, whilst Mr L might have expected his own 
lawyer to be appointed to do this, I dont think that Aviva misled him or did something wrong 
by appointing their own panel firm to undertake this task. If his claim was found to have 
reasonable prospects of succeeding, Aviva would ultimately be responsible for Mr Ls legal 
fees, so theyre entitled to take advice from their own choice of Solicitors in this regard. 
Equally Mr L is entitled to challenge this with reference to their own legal opinion if he thinks 
this is wrong. I appreciate Mr L might not want to be put to the cost of doing this until now, 
but that doesnt mean that Aviva need to fund his claim or that the position theyve taken is 
unfair. 
On the question of delays and Aviva failing to respond to some emails Mr L sent to them, I 
accept this would have caused Mr L some frustration but like the investigator, I havent seen 
anything to support this had any impact on the claim itself. As things stand there is no cover 
in place for Mr L to pursue his claims so I cant see that Avivas actions prejudiced him or his 
claim in any way or that they need to do anything more to put things right. 
 
In response to the investigators view of his complaint Mr L has said he thinks that the 
appointment of the panel firm in the first instance amounts to a conflict of interest because 
the panel firm are paid by Aviva and so will act in Avivas best interests. I dont however 
agree with this. The panel firm are independent professionals with their own codes of 
conduct and a separate regulator. The fact that theyre instructed by Aviva and paid by them to consider the merits of a claim, doesnt to my mind mean they arent impartial. And I would 
expect a firm of Solicitors to provide the same advice to Mr L if he were instructing them 
directly. If Mr L remains concerned about the conduct of the panel firm, he can complain to 
them or about them in the way Ive set out above. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against Aviva Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman