DRN-2385799
The complaint
Ms E complains about the service she received when trying to get a replacement ATM card 
for her TSB bank account. 
What happened
Ms E has held a TSB Bank Plc (TSB) account for around 30 years. She used this account
to receive gifted money as deposits, which she would then withdraw using her ATM card.
For this account Ms E has an ATM card, but no debit card or other enhanced facilities.
Ms E moved out of the UK, to Europe. She updated her details and authorised a relative to
act for her in respect of this account, and to receive linked for the account.
In early 2020, a deposit was paid into the account of £100 as a gift for Ms E to pass to her
child. Ms E tried to access her account to withdraw the funds, using her ATM card, and
realised that the card had expired.
Ms Es representative had not received a replacement card prior to expiry so went into a
branch of TSB and requested that a new card be issued. She was advised that a card would
be ordered.
No replacement card arrived at Ms Es representatives address, so she contacted TSB to
request a card again. She was advised that another card would be ordered and sent to her.
This again did not arrive.
Ms Es representative attended a branch again to chase up the replacement card and was
then advised that the identification that TSB held for Ms E was out of date. TSB advised that
no further card would be issued until Ms E provided identification.
Ms E contacted TSB and asked if she could provide her identification other than in person,
as she lives overseas. She offered to provide certified copies of her ID. TSB refused and told
her that she would have to attend a branch to produce her ID.
Ms E was unhappy with this and a complaint was raised with TSB. TSB responded rejecting
the complaint and setting out that the bank was entitled to require ID be produced in person
in the UK, as the terms for Ms Es account required that account holders be UK resident.
Ms E was not happy with this response and contacted us.
One of our investigators has looked into this complaint and set out his view to the parties.
This was that TSB is required to know its customer and that it is entitled to define the
identification it will and will not accept. He considered that there was evidence that
replacement cards had been sent out and that it was not TSBs fault that they had not been
received. He therefore did not consider that TSB had done anything wrong.
Ms E did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
I considered this matter and set out a provisional decision in November 2020. In that 
decision I explained that I agreed with the investigator to the extent that TSB is entitled to 
define its own policies for knowing its customer. I did, however, consider that the 
communications between TSB and Ms E after the problems had arisen were not clear or 
helpful. 
I explained that TSB had provided evidence of one call, and that in that call I thought the 
information had been unclear as to why the identification was now needed, and no 
consideration was given to how TSB could assist its customer who was at that time unable 
to access her account. I therefore thought that TSB ought to pay to Ms E £100 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
That provisional decision has been shared with the parties for comment. 
Ms E has indicated that she accepts the provisional decision. 
TSB has provided further comments and does not accept the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB has indicated, in its response to my provisional decision, that the reason Ms E was not 
aware that her complaint had been closed was because she had not updated her 
correspondence address and so an incorrect address was held on file. TSBs complaint 
response was sent to that old address.  
I accept that it is the responsibility of consumers to update their correspondence details, but 
in this case the final response letter was dated the day before the date of the call recording 
and so would not have been received by the time of the call in any event. 
It is unclear why TSB had sent that letter to Ms Es personal (out of date) address when 
previous correspondence and cards had been sent to the correspondence address of her 
representative in the UK, however I do not criticise TSB for using an out of date address if 
Ms E had not provided an up to date address. 
Taking into account, TSBs submissions I remain of the view that the communications TSB 
had with Ms E were not clear or helpful. 
The final response refers to attempts having been made to contact Ms E and that these were 
unsuccessful. Ms E disputed this during the call, and I have not seen evidence of attempts to 
contact her, other than the final response letter. 
Beyond this, the responses (both the written response and the telephone call) address the 
complaint only from the perspective of whether TSB has done anything wrong in requiring 
ID, and they do not give any consideration to assisting their customer resolve the problem 
she faced.  
TSB has explained that the account was not one from which transfers could be made, but I 
remain of the view that alternatives, such as closing her account, should have been 
discussed, even if they were ultimately discounted. I think that a failure to do so caused Ms 
E distress and inconvenience. Accordingly, I adopt my provisional decision, as supplemented by my comments here, as my 
final decision, and I partially uphold Ms Es complaint.
 
Putting things right
As set out in my provisional decision I consider that TSB ought to pay Ms E £100 
compensation for her distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Ms Es 
complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay to Ms E £100 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman