DRN-3400606
The complaint
Mr J complains that Moneybarn No 1 Limited provided him with incorrect information 
following the insurance write off of his car.
What happened
In August 2020 Mr J was supplied with a car and entered into a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn.
In or around January 2021 Mr J was involved in an accident and the car was written off by 
the insurance company. Mr J wanted to keep the car so he contacted Moneybarn, who 
advised him that if he wished to keep the car he would need to settle his agreement, and 
that if the payment from his insurance didnt clear the outstanding balance, he would need to 
set up a  payment plan.
Based on this information, Mr J kept the car and arranged for it to be repaired at his own 
cost.
Mr Js insurance company didnt settle the full amount outstanding under the agreement, so 
Mr J contacted Moneybarn to arrange a payment plan. Moneybarn advised him that the car 
wouldnt be sold to him and that he remained liable to pay the balance due under the 
agreement.
Mr J was unhappy that hed been given conflicting information and complained to 
Moneybarn. In response, Moneybarn acknowledged that it had provided incorrect 
information. It said that although it went against its the policy of allowing an insurance write 
off to be retained, it would allow Mr J to retain the car on condition that he provided proof of 
MOT and insurance. It also asked Mr J to make arrangements to repay the outstanding 
balance under the agreement.
Mr J remained unhappy and complained to this service. He says he was caused distress 
when he was informed that he couldnt keep the car and says that Moneybarn failed to 
advise him of the balance due under the agreement.
Our investigator didnt think Moneybarn had acted fairly. He said that Moneybarn shouldve 
provided Mr J with correct information at the outset, and that Mr J had been caused 
inconvenience throughout the settlement process, for which compensation of £75 should be 
paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn has acknowledged that it provided incorrect information to Mr J when he asked if 
he could retain the car following the accident. Mr J acted in reliance on the information 
provided to him and has had the car repaired at his own cost.
Based on what Ive seen, Mr J was aware that he needed to set up a payment plan for the 
outstanding balance under the agreement. However, when he contacted Moneybarn to set 
this up, it told him that he couldnt keep the car because it was against its policy. I can see 
that it has taken several months for Moneybarn to provide a final response to this complaint, 
which has added to the distress caused to Mr J. The impact on Mr J has been significant, 
because he already suffers from anxiety and this has been made worse by his worries that  
the car would be taken away from him.
Moneybarn has now agreed to let Mr J keep the car and hes provided the information 
requested. Moneybarn will remain the owners of the car until the outstanding balance is 
settled, so Mr J will need to make arrangements to pay this.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, and whilst the issue of  Mr J keeping the car has now been 
resolved, I dont think Moneybarn has done enough to acknowledge the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr J throughout this process, so Im asking Moneybarn to pay compensation of 
£75 to Mr J.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Moneybarn No 1 Limited must pay £75 to Mr 
J for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman