DRN-3901403
The complaint
Mr M complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc provided unclear and misleading information 
about balance transfers.
What happened
Mr M applied for a credit card with Sainsburys on 17 October 2022. As part of the 
application, Mr M asked Sainsburys to transfer a balance from an existing credit card that he 
held elsewhere.
Shortly afterwards, following the necessary checks, Sainsburys sent Mr M a credit 
agreement to sign. The credit agreement said, on page one, that Sainsburys had been 
unable to complete the requested balance transfer ...at this time. Nonetheless, the credit 
card account was opened on 7 November.
 
A few days later, Mr M called Sainsburys to complain. In summary, he was unhappy that his 
balance transfer hadnt been accepted and felt that the information provided  on 
Sainsburys website and on the credit agreement  hadnt made clear that it might not go 
through.
 
Sainsburys sent Mr M its final response letter on 15 November. The letter said that, at 
application stage, Sainsburys does warn applicants that balance transfers cant be accepted 
from certain providers. It also provides a phone number which applicants can call if they 
want to clarify whether their balance transfer could go ahead. So, overall, it didnt agree that 
it had got something wrong.
 
Sainsburys did say, though, that when Mr M called, hed waited longer than expected to 
speak with someone. So, it offered him £25 by way of apology.
 
Mr M remained unhappy, so he approached our service for an independent review. An 
investigator here looked at what had happened, but she didnt think Sainsburys had done 
anything wrong. In summary, she said:
There was enough information available to Mr M, from both Sainsburys online 
application process and his credit card agreement, to suggest that some balance 
transfers might not be accepted. 
Mr M had the option to call Sainsburys before applying to check if his balance 
transfer request would be accepted. But he didnt do so.
 
Sainsburys offer of £25 to apologise for the length of time Mr M had waited on the 
phone was a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances. 
Mr M, though, didnt agree. He reiterated his belief that the wording on Sainsburys website 
was unclear and misleading.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know it will disappoint Mr M, Im not upholding this complaint. I agree 
with the conclusions reached by our investigator, and for much the same reasons.
 
Ive looked at the information Mr M wouldve been provided when he applied for a credit card 
account and, in my view, Sainsburys online application contains clear wording around 
balance transfers. It says:
We may not be able to process balance transfers from some providers
Theres also a further link for customers to click through where the same information is 
provided again, albeit with more detail. That link explains:
We may not be able to process transfers from some store cards and charge 
cardsIf you would like clarification if your transfer can go ahead prior to your 
applicationcall us on
With all of that in mind, I dont share Mr Ms opinion that the wording is misleading or 
unclear. Instead, I think Sainsburys plainly advises that some balance transfers arent able 
to be processed  and it provides a way for applicants to check in advance if their request 
might be affected. I find all of that to be reasonable. 
I know Mr M also thinks the credit card agreement he was sent should have been clearer. 
Specifically, hes said his credit agreement contains general information which explains that 
balance transfers cant be completed until the credit card is opened. So, when he read that 
in the same document that said his balance transfer couldnt be completed at this time, 
he thinks it implied that the transfer will be completed when the account is opened. 
While I can understand Mr Ms point of view, I dont think that wording does imply or suggest 
that the balance transfer will go through when the account is opened. Its not specific. 
Instead, by my reading of it, that wording is a statement which simply sets out that the 
balance transfer couldnt be completed. So, overall, while I can accept that things can be 
open to some degree of interpretation, I dont agree that the wording Sainsburys used is 
misleading. And it follows that I dont think Sainsburys has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
here. 
That said, aside from the issue with his balance transfer, Sainsburys has accepted that 
Mr M experienced some poor service  the time he had to spend waiting on the phone  and 
its offered him £25 in compensation. I know it can be frustrating to have to wait. And, in the 
circumstances, I think £25 is a fair amount to reflect the minor inconvenience Mr M was 
caused. So, should he now wish to accept Sainsburys offer, he can contact it directly. 
Overall, though, I dont think Sainsburys needs to take any further action  and it follows that 
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman