DRN-3755222
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC changed his secured loan from repayment to interest
only, without asking him or telling him. He said Lloyds was supposed to put this right, but 
instead it had left him with a large debt in his loan servicing account, which wasnt fair.
What happened
Mr S said he took out a secured loan with Lloyds, and for several years was repaying the
capital and interest each month. But then at some point Lloyds had changed the loan to
interest only.
Mr S said hed first complained about this in March 2020, but Lloyds didnt put him back onto
a capital repayment loan then. Mr S said hed then asked for a settlement figure for the loan
in March 2022, and found out he owed much more than he was expecting. Mr S thought
Lloyds should put things right. But he said what it had done was leave him with a very large
debt in his loan servicing account. He didnt think that was fair.
Lloyds accepted it had made a mistake. It didnt know why Mr Ss secured loan had been
changed to interest only. It could only tell that this happened in October 2019, around the
same time that Mr S asked it to move his payment date to later in the month. It didnt think
Mr S had asked for the change to interest only, and it couldnt show that it had written to tell
him about this at the time. Because Lloyds said that Mr Ss loan shouldnt have been
changed in this way, it was going to make a payment to him.
Lloyds said it had a call recording from 5 March 2020, in which Mr S mentioned that his loan
payments had recently reduced. Lloyds said this wasnt discussed further then, and the call
was actually about something else. But Lloyds thought this was important, because it
showed that by then, Mr S was aware of the problem, but didnt ask Lloyds to sort things out
for him.
Lloyds said it would pay the capital repayments that had been missed from October 2019 to
March 2020, during the time when it didnt think Mr S was aware of the problem. That added
up to £3,778.62. It also said if Mr S had made his capital payments at the time they were
due, he wouldve been charged less interest. So it also refunded overcharged interest of
£1,228.11. And it paid him £500 in compensation.
Lloyds said it was also calculating any loss of interest Mr S might have incurred elsewhere
as a result of overpaying interest to the loan. It has since told us that it paid 8% simple
interest on this overcharged interest, which meant it had paid him £204.14.
But Lloyds said it wouldnt cover all of the underfunded capital, because it said Mr S was
aware there was a problem with the loan in March 2020, and it thought he couldve brought
this to its attention at the time. So it said that to put the loan to rights, it had taken the rest of
the unpaid capital from Mr Ss loan servicing account, and used it to pay the loan. That
added up to £18,127.75. Lloyds said that although it understood this was a large amount to
take all at once, it was money Mr S ought to have paid to his loan, and which hed only been
able to keep because of the lower repayments.
Once this large debit was taken, and the credits listed above were made, Mr S owed almost
£14,000 on his loan servicing account.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He thought Lloyds had already
done enough to put things right in this case. He said it had put Mr S back in the position he
wouldve been if the correct capital payments had been deducted. He thought it was fair for
Lloyds to ask Mr S to pay what would have been claimed from his loan servicing account
after March 2020, if the loan type hadnt been changed.
Our investigator said Mr Ss loan servicing account had only gone into debit because Mr S
reduced the standing order from its previous level, starting in July 2020. And he could see
Mr S had also made multiple withdrawals to a savings account. Thats why the money to pay
the loan wasnt there, when Lloyds tried to put things right.
Our investigator didnt think it was fair to ask Lloyds to write off the outstanding balance of
the loan servicing account, because that debt was made up of loan payment that shouldve
been taken if the mistake hadnt happened. So he wouldnt ask Lloyds to do more than it had
done already.
Mr S didnt agree. He said that this outcome was only fair for Lloyds, and he didnt think he
should have to pay any more now than he would have done if this loan had been run
properly by Lloyds. He repeated that hed pointed out this mistake in March 2020, but
nothing had been done to fix it then. Mr S wanted his complaint to be considered by an
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. And I then reached my provisional 
decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Before October 2019, Mr S was paying in £900 per month into his loan servicing 
account. And the monthly loan payment of a little less than this was taken each month. 
Things had been the same for some years, up until October 2019, when the loan 
payments were substantially reduced, to around £350 each month. So a surplus started 
to accrue in Mr Ss loan servicing account then.
Lloyds didnt think Mr S had realised this until March 2020. It has accepted responsibility 
for all the missed capital payments between October 2019 and March 2020, and it has 
paid those for Mr S.
But I do think that what happened on Mr Ss loan servicing account suggests Mr S had
noticed the problem some time before this. Lloyds has also told us that Mr S had asked 
in October 2019 for his payments to be rescheduled for later in the month. And it told 
him it could only make this change in small increments, over a three month period. So it 
seems reasonable to expect that Mr S would be keeping an eye on his loan servicing 
account after October 2019, to see when payments were taken.
We know now that the loan type was changed, wrongly, in October 2019, and Mr Ss
monthly payment out of the servicing account was reduced. So a surplus started to build 
up. And his statements show that Mr S made a transfer of the entire surplus balance on 
16 December 2019. Mr S has told us he moved the spare money from his loan servicing
account to his savings account. So I think Mr S had noticed by mid-December 2019 that 
the full payment was no longer being taken.If Mr S had noticed a problem with his loan, then I do think theres an onus on him to 
alert Lloyds to this, and to do so promptly. But Mr S says he didnt raise this with Lloyds 
until March 2020. Lloyds has listened back to the call recording, and told us this was 
only mentioned in passing then.
Because I think its most likely that Mr S did notice the problem by mid-December 2019 
at the latest, and because I also think he should have raised this with Lloyds then, I 
dont think Lloyds actually had to cover the capital repayments Mr S missed from 
December 2019 to March 2020.
Mr S continued to make a monthly payment of £900 into this account for several more
months, which meant a surplus continued to accrue. At the end of February 2020, and 
again at the start of May 2020, he transferred the accrued surplus out of the loan 
account. Then starting from July 2020, he reduced the payments in to the account, 
down to £1, until the surplus was used up in making the smaller monthly payments. He 
transferred out the last of the surplus in October 2020 and increased his monthly 
payments then to an amount just over the new, reduced loan costs.
If Mr S had understood from the call he had with Lloyds in March 2020 that it was going 
to sort out the problems with his loan, its not clear why he wouldnt contact it again after 
this, to ask why his payments hadnt gone back to the same level as before.
Mr S then got in touch with Lloyds in early 2022, as he intended to pay this loan off. He 
said the loan hadnt reduced in the way he was expecting. I think thats when Lloyds 
realised what had gone wrong.
Lloyds has accepted responsibility for the original mistake, and covered the payments 
Mr S should have made, up until March 2020 when it thought he had noticed the 
problem (although Ive explained why I think he was aware of the problem earlier than 
this). It has put Mr S back in the position he would have been in if these payments had 
been made  so that if he does pay into his loan servicing account, as a lump sum, the 
money he should have been paying since March 2020, hell be no worse off now.
But what Lloyds wont do is actually cover those missed capital repayments for Mr S, 
from March 2020 until the loan was put back to repayment in mid-2022. We know that 
Mr S first moved the money for these payments into his savings account, then stopped 
paying it into the loan account altogether. I dont think its reasonable to ask Lloyds to 
fund those payments for Mr S now.
Ive thought carefully about the circumstances of this complaint, but I dont think Lloyds 
has to do more than it has done already. I know Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont 
think this complaint should be upheld.
I understand Mr S is intending to repay this loan through the sale of a property. I hope 
that he and Lloyds will now be able to reach an agreement to cover all of his outstanding 
debts to it. But this decision only runs up to the point when Lloyds took the funds for Mr 
Ss loan from his loan servicing account, and paid in the credits listed above. I wont 
comment further than that here, to give both sides a chance to reach agreement, and to 
allow Mr S to revert to our service about this in due course if that should be necessary.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds said it accepted my provisional decision, and had no additional information for me.
Mr S got in touch, and although he did so a little bit after our deadline, I think its reasonable 
for me to address his comments. Ill set these out briefly below.
Mr S said the complaint handler at Lloyds had agreed with him and accepted it should have 
done something when he got in touch in March 2020. So he said he was surprised I would 
take the view he ought to have told Lloyds, after this, that it still hadnt put things right.
I dont think thats quite what Lloyds said in its final response letter. Lloyds accepted 
responsibility for the mistake up to March 2020, and made payments to put things right for 
that time. But it also explained why it wouldnt make any payment to cover capital Mr S 
should have repaid after this date. 
Lloyds said We would not look to cover the total underfunded capital as we feel its 
reasonable to believe you were aware there was an issue with the loan in March 2020. This 
is due to the actions youve taken with the standing order and you could have brought this to 
our attention at the time.
Mr S said hed been paid around £4,000, and offered £500 in compensation to put him back 
in the position he would've been if the mistake hadn't been made. But Mr S said Lloyds was 
now pursuing him to pay £14,000 which is now in the form of an overdraft on his loan 
servicing account. He said it hadnt offered him any payment plan. And he wanted the 
charge to be removed from his property. He said that charge was for his loan, not for this 
overdraft.
I have been clear that my decision above runs only up to the point when Lloyds took the 
funds for Mr Ss loan from his loan servicing account, and paid in the credits listed above. I 
said I wouldnt comment further here, to give both sides a chance to reach agreement, and 
to allow Mr S to revert to our service about this in due course if that should be necessary. 
I still think thats appropriate, so I would encourage Mr S to discuss repayment with Lloyds in 
the first instance.
Mr S also said that Lloyds wont remove a charge from his property which he thought should 
have been removed when his loan was cleared. I understand that Mr S hasnt previously 
complained about this, so I again, I would ask him to discuss that with Lloyds first.
I have considered what Mr S has said to us, but I havent changed my mind. Ill now make 
the decision I originally proposed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2022.
 
Esther Absalom-GoughOmbudsman