DRN-1812718
Complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly provided 
him with a number of unaffordable loans.                           
Background
This complaint is about eight high-cost short term credit instalment loans that Sunny 
provided to Mr M between May 2018 and September 2018. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought he shouldnt have been 
provided with loans 4 to 8. Sunny disagreed and so the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr M was unlikely to have been able to make his payments in a 
sustainable manner when it provided loan 4. I say this because by this stage Mr M had an established borrowing pattern of taking out 
further loans while he already had an outstanding balance on an existing loan. Indeed Mr M 
hadnt by that point managed to repay any of his previous loans. In my view, this was 
indicative of a borrower who may well have been struggling to manage their money and who 
was borrowing further in order to make repayments. 
Sunny continued lending to Mr M even when this pattern was repeated and in circumstances 
where it ought reasonably to have realised that any further loans were more likely than not 
unsustainable for him.  And as Mr M had to pay, and is being expected to pay, interest and 
charges on loans Sunny shouldnt have provided, I think that he lost out.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans 4, 5 and 8;
 
remove all interest and charges added to loans 6 and 7 from the outset. Mr W's 
payments should then be deducted from the new starting balances. If Mr W's 
payments exceed the amounts he was lent (for either loan) any extra should be 
treated as overpayments and refunded to Mr W. If, after all adjustments have been 
made, Mr W still hasnt repaid all that he was lent then Sunny can deduct this from 
what it now needs to pay Mr W if it owns any debt at the time of settlement. If Sunny 
doesnt own any debt it shouldnt make any deduction;   
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest, charges and 
overpayments from the date they were paid to the date of settlement;
 
remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of loans 4 
and 5. The number of loans provided means that any information recorded about 
loans 6 to 8 on Mr Ms credit file is likely to be adverse. So all reference to these 
loans should be removed from Mr Ms credit file;
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman