DRN-2248032
The complaint
Mr M has complained TSB Bank plc didnt deal with his complaint about their customer 
service properly and never apologised.
What happened
In 2018 Mr M had to wait an extremely long time in his branch to get some cash. He 
complained to TSB. They apologised and gave him £50 to compensate for the 
inconvenience. Mr M wasnt happy with this resolution. He asked TSB to review this further.
Mr M had to wait some time for TSB to pick this up again as they were managing a large 
number of complaints. He spoke to a member of staff on the phone and was concerned it 
was suggested he could take his business elsewhere if he remained unhappy.
TSB then wrote to Mr M in July 2019. They apologised again and said theyd give Mr M a 
further £50 in compensation. They also offered to pay him £46 for his expenses. Mr M 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed what had happened. Although we werent able to listen to the 
phone call when Mr M felt insulted by it being suggested he could bank elsewhere, we did 
have a copy of the notes taken on this call. Our investigator felt TSB had apologised and 
provided sufficient compensation for what had happened.
Mr M remained unhappy with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid my decision is going to disappoint Mr M further. Ive looked at the evidence. This 
shows TSB accepted theyd made a mistake in the level of customer service they provided 
inside their branch in 2018. Mr M was left hanging around until he was able to get the 
service he wanted.
But whilst TSB made a mistake, they paid Mr M a total of £100 compensation and £50 for his 
expenses. This was paid in two tranches in 2018 and 2019. Overall I think this is fair and 
reasonable taking all the circumstances into account.
I know Mr M doesnt believe TSB has properly apologised but I believe its most likely they 
did this on the phone, and I can see they did this again in their final response in July 2019. 
So Im afraid I dont agree with him.
I appreciate Mr M feels he was insulted by TSB suggesting he take his business elsewhere. 
However from the evidence Ive seen, Mr M has had a number of complaints against TSB 
over a period of time. Its not unusual for a bank to suggest the relationship may not be 
working. It is always the right of a customer to close their account and see whether they can 
find a service that better suits their needs at another bank.
Overall Im not going to ask TSB to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ms complaint against TSB 
Bank plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman