DRN-3894690
The complaint
Mrs M complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) erroneously set up a 
Bounce Back Loan in her own name, rather than that of her company  meaning she is 
personally liable for its repayment.
What happened
Mrs M opened a business account with NatWest in 2010. At that time, she operated her 
business as a sole tradership, so the account was opened in her own name.
Mrs M incorporated her business in 2013, setting up a company that Ill refer to as E. 
Mrs M opened accounts for E with NatWest in 2019. But her sole trader account remained 
open, and she continued to use it as Es primary account.
In 2020, Mrs M applied to NatWest for a Bounce Back Loan to help E deal with the impact of 
the coronavirus pandemic. Within the application, Mrs M stated that the loan was for E. But 
when asked for its account details, she gave those of her own sole trader account rather 
than the companys. 
NatWest processed the application as if it had been made in Mrs Ms own name as a sole 
trader, rather than on Es behalf. It accepted the application and issued a loan agreement to 
Mrs M  naming her as the borrower, rather than E. Mrs M signed and returned the 
agreement, and the loan funds were drawn down to her sole trader account.
E entered liquidation in 2021, which led to NatWest closing its accounts. The company was 
dissolved last year.
The bank also transferred Mrs Ms sole trader account to a specialist team, who contacted 
her about repayment of the Bounce Back Loan. This led to the complaint being raised, as 
Mrs M believed the loan was a liability of Es rather than her own. 
Mrs M doesnt think its fair for NatWest to hold her personally liable for repayment of the 
Bounce Back Loan debt. Her reasons for this are, in summary, that:
She clearly stated within the application form that the loan was for E, and provided its 
company number and other relevant details.
She had previously notified the bank of the change to the business entity from a sole 
tradership in her own name to that of E as a limited company, and believed the bank 
account to have been transferred to E thereafter.
The funds were used by E.
She didnt provide a personal guarantee in support of the Bounce Back Loan, so it 
was a debt owed by E and as such shouldve been included within the list of creditors 
as part of companys winding up.
NatWest doesnt think its done anything wrong. In short, it says that Mrs M provided her sole 
trader account details when making the loan application and so it was processed on that 
basis accordingly. The agreement was in her name, and the funds were provided to her 
account.
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Ms complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. 
This was largely for the same reasons as those highlighted by NatWest, in that Mrs M had 
given her own account details when applying and ultimately signed to enter into the loan 
agreement in her own name rather than that of E.
As Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I have some sympathy for the position Mrs M finds herself in, I 
dont think there is any basis on which I could require NatWest to absolve her of 
responsibility for the Bounce Back Loan. Ill explain why.
The starting point is the loan agreement itself. That clearly names Mrs M as the borrower, 
rather than E. Mrs M signed that agreement, so there is a contract between her and NatWest 
in which she has committed to repaying the loan. The question of a personal guarantee isnt 
relevant, therefore, as NatWest is holding Mrs M responsible for the loan on the basis that 
she is the named borrower, rather than as a guarantor.
I can see that in the application form, Mrs M did name E as the applicant. But because of 
how NatWest was processing Bounce Back Loan applications, this was overridden by the 
fact that had she used her own sole trader account details rather than the details of an 
account belonging to E. 
Mrs M wasnt to know that the consequences of such an error would be so significant. And it 
was only because of the unique nature of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme  with largely 
automated online applications in order to process applications and provide lending as quickly 
as possible  that such a discrepancy was left unchallenged. So I can see why Mrs M finds 
the position difficult to accept. However, she was provided with an opportunity to rectify 
matters when she was sent the loan agreement. Although I can see why she may not have 
realised the error she was making when providing her account details, the agreement clearly 
named her as the borrower  with no mention of E whatsoever. I think it is reasonable to 
have expected her to review the agreement carefully before signing it  and to have queried 
anything if it wasnt in line with her expectations.
I understand Mrs M believed the sole trader account to have been transferred into the name 
of her limited company. That was not the case. And while that may have been her 
understanding, Ive not seen that NatWest did or said anything to give her that impression. 
Mrs M had also opened separate accounts for E just a few months before the application, 
which leads me to think that she would or should have known that these were distinct from 
the longstanding sole trader account shed been using. While it is clear that NatWest knew of 
Es existence, I dont think this ought reasonably to have influenced how it processed the 
Bounce Back Loan application.
Were E still trading, and therefore capable of taking on the liability, I can see that there might 
be a case for simply transferring the loan to the company (irrespective of where responsibility for the issue arising might lie). But E has since been dissolved. So if I were to 
absolve Mrs M of her liability for repayment of the loan, I would effectively be asking the 
bank to write it off. I dont think that would be a fair way to resolve things. 
Mrs M says that she used the loan funds were utilised in the course of Es business. That is 
hard for me to verify, and shes not provided the corroborating evidence that she told us she 
intended to submit. But I can accept what she says at face value. It still doesnt lead me to a 
different conclusion, in light of all Ive said above. 
Taking all of this into account, I dont think NatWest is acting unfairly in seeking repayment of 
the Bounce Back Loan from Mrs M. I would, however, expect it to treat Mrs M fairly in how it 
seeks to recover the money owed, including the fair consideration of any repayment 
proposals she puts forward, bearing in mind the unique circumstances that apply here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman