DRN-2813966
The complaint
Ms D complains that Health Shield Friendly Society Limited collected premiums in relation to 
a health cash plan after she told it that she wished to cancel the plan. 
What happened
In summary, on 29 May 2018, Ms D completed an application form for a corporate health 
cash plan following a presentation by a representative of Health Shield at her new 
workplace. She says that when she got home, she read the information shed been given 
and realised that the plan didnt cover pre-existing conditions. Ms D says that on           
23 May 2018, she wrote to Health Shield to cancel her application. Ill refer to the date of 
that letter in more detail below. Health Shield says that it didnt receive that letter. 
Health Shield says that there was delay in its representative obtaining Ms Ds payroll 
number from her employer. It says that it received Ms Ds completed application in 
January 2019 and proceeded to set up the plan. Health Shield says that it sent Ms D 
correspondence about the plan in January 2019, May 2019, September 2019 and 
November 2019. Ms D says that she didnt receive any of that correspondence. 
In December 2019, Ms D became aware that Health Shield was taking monthly 
payments direct from her salary. Ms D says that she tried to contact Health Shield by 
phone but couldnt get through. Ms D wrote to Health Shield about this matter. Health 
Shield said that it processed the cancellation request on 14 January 2020. Ms Ds 
employer deducted the February 2020 payment and Health Shield is willing to refund the 
February 2020 payment. 
Ms D doesnt understand why the plan was set up at all and wants Health Shield to 
refund all the premiums that were deducted from her salary. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She didnt think that              
Health Shield had treated Ms D unfairly. The investigator didnt think that Health Shield 
had acted unfairly in not cancelling the plan in May 2018. She said that Health Shield 
had contacted Ms D about the plan several times in 2019. The investigator said that 
Health Shield had cancelled the plan in January 2020 and had offered to refund the 
February 2020 payment. She didnt think that Health Shield should refund the other 
payments. 
Ms D didnt agree with the investigator. She asked why Health Shield didnt contact her 
employer or phone her. Ms D asked why Health Shield didnt return her call when her 
call was terminated. She says that in May 2018, she sent a letter cancelling the plan, 
which was in the cooling off period. Ms D asks why Health Shield didnt process the 
application until January 2019. 
Ms D asked that an ombudsman consider her complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Where there is a dispute about what happened  as there is here - I base my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence.
Ms D says that she first wrote to Health Shield to cancel the plan on 23 May 2018. 
That was before she signed the application form on 29 May 2018. At this distance, 
Ms D may have simply made a mistake in recalling the date of her letter to          
Health Shield. But theres no other evidence to support Ms Ds assertion that she 
contacted Health Shield in order to cancel the plan soon after she completed the 
application form. So, I dont think that Health Shield was at fault in failing to note in or 
around May 2018 that Ms D didnt want to proceed with her application.
I agree with Ms D that its unusual that an application she signed in May 2018 wasnt 
processed until January 2019. But Health Shield has explained why that happened: 
there was a delay in it obtaining Ms Ds payroll number. 
Ive seen that Health Shield contacted Ms D about the plan several times in 2019. It 
says that it used the e-mail and postal address Ms D provided in her application form. 
Ive seen copies of the letters it sent by post. The address is correct. Health Shield 
isnt responsible for any failings in the postal service. So, I think that Health Shield 
did enough to tell Ms D that the plan was set up. 
Health Shield says that it didnt receive any failed e-mail messages or returned post. 
So, it had no reason to contact Ms Ds employer or to call Ms D. Also it says that 
when a phone call disconnects, it leaves it to the caller to phone again at their 
convenience. I think thats reasonable. 
Ive noted what Ms D says about the difficulties in accessing her pay slip but, given 
that Health Shield had sent correspondence to Ms D about the plan, it was for Ms D 
to check that she was happy with the deductions made from her salary. 
Health Shield cancelled Ms Ds plan in January 2020. It was for Ms D to tell her 
employer to stop making deductions. The February 2020 payment was collected in 
error and Health Shield says that it will refund that payment on provision of Ms Ds 
bank details. 
Considering everything, there are no grounds on which I can fairly direct            
Health Shield to refund to Ms D the January 2019 to January 2020 premiums.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint.
If Ms D wishes to take up Health Shields offer to refund the February 2020 payment, she 
should contact Health Shield direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021. Louise Povey
Ombudsman