DRN-3540717
The complaint
Mr J complains that a car he took under a conditional sale agreement from Santander 
Consumer (UK) Plc is not of satisfactory quality. He believes he should be able to reject it. 
What happened
In November 2021 Mr J entered into a conditional sale agreement with Santander for a new 
electric car. 
Mr J very soon identified that the car did not appear to be charging correctly and contacted 
Santander. It arranged for an independent inspection of the car. The report which was 
prepared following that inspection largely supported what Mr J had said. It noted that the car 
did not charge if the lead was plugged into the wall first and then into the car. It did appear to 
charge if the lead was plugged into the car first and then into the wall. That was a fault which 
required further investigation and repairs under the manufacturers warranty. 
Relying on the experts report, Santander said that repairs should be made under the 
warranty. It also offered Mr J £75 in recognition of delays in dealing with his complaint. 
Mr J did not think that was an adequate remedy. He thought he should be able to reject the 
car. He referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered what 
had happened. 
Our investigator was broadly in agreement with Santander. Allowing a repair to the car under 
the warranty and therefore at no cost to Mr J was a reasonable solution. The investigator 
noted too that Mr J had been provided with a courtesy car, so it was not appropriate to 
compensate him for any additional costs he said he had incurred. 
Mr J did not accept the investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The conditional sale contract was to be read as including a term that the car would be of 
satisfactory quality. Given the car was new, that meant that it should have been virtually 
fault-free. 
There is no real dispute about the quality of the car. The difficulties that Mr J has 
experienced in charging it mean that it was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
him. The issue I must consider is what, if anything, Santander should do to put things right.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 sets out a number of remedies which may be appropriate 
where goods are not of satisfactory quality, including rejection, repair, reduction in price and 
a refund. Generally, the consumer can decide on the remedy  subject to some limitations. I 
have taken the Consumer Rights Act into account in deciding what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in this case. 
Mr Js car is covered by a manufacturers warranty, and there is, as far as I am aware, no 
reason to think that it will not be possible to repair the car and to put it in the condition in 
which it should have been at delivery. 
I understand that the dealership was initially unable to identify a fault with the car and that a 
further inspection was to be scheduled. If it is not in fact possible to repair the fault or 
otherwise reach an agreed solution, Mr J may be able to raise a further complaint. My 
current view is however that Santanders response to this complaint has been a reasonable 
one.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc to 
do anything further to resolve Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman