DRN-2205862
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank plc closed his accounts without informing him and 
hasnt given him a reason for its decision.
What happened
Mr A says he had a number of accounts with HSBC including a current account and a credit 
card account. He says hes banked with HSBC for over twenty years.
He says he noticed in February 2020 that his accounts had disappeared. He contacted 
HSBC and it made all of the accounts available again and reinstated his direct debits. He 
says he discovered a few weeks later that the accounts had been closed. He complained to 
HSBC
HSBC investigated his complaint. It said it had written to Mr A on 28 December 2019. The 
letter stated it had decided to close all of his accounts except for any fixed term accounts, 
loans or mortgages that he had with it. It said it had given him two months notice as set out 
in its terms and conditions. The letter stated the accounts would be closed on 26 February 
2020, and he needed to make alternative banking arrangements. So, HSBC didnt uphold his 
complaint.
Mr A said he hadnt received this letter. But HSBC didnt change its decision. So Mr A 
complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He asked HSBC if it was prepared to say why it 
had made its decision. HSBC said that Mr As behaviour hadnt been in line with what the 
bank would tolerate. Our investigator thought HSBC had a commercial discretion to decide 
who it did business with providing that it had complied with the terms and conditions for the 
account. 
Although Mr A said he hadnt received the letter from HSBC, our investigator said HSBC had 
shown it had sent the letter to the correct address. He also said HSBC had now given the 
reason for its decision, even though it wasnt obliged to. So, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed been fobbed off and lied to by HSBC staff and that was 
why hed become angry with it. But he didnt agree that HSBC should close his accounts 
because of this. He also said hed gone through a lot of pain and agony because of what had 
happened.
Because Mr A didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that Mr A has raised concerns about matters affecting 
accounts which were not closed by HSBC. Those concerns need to be dealt with separately. 
So, in this decision Im only dealing with HSBCs decision to close Mr As current account 
and credit card account.
HSBC has provided a copy of the letter it says it sent to Mr A dated 28 December 2019. I 
can see that letter quotes the account number for Mr As current account. The letter states 
that following a review of the account(s) HSBC had decided to give Mr A two months notice 
it would close all of his accounts with the exception of any fixed term accounts, loans or 
mortgages.  
From looking at the information thats been provided it appears HSBC closed Mr As current 
account and his credit card account after the two month notice period had expired.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions for the current account and the credit card account. 
These state that HSBC can close the accounts provided it gives two months notice. The 
terms and conditions dont say it has to provide any reason for its decision. But we would 
expect HSBC to act fairly and reasonably when deciding whether to give notice to close an 
account.
It is the case that HSBC has given two months notice in this case  so, in line with the terms 
and conditions, its not obliged to give a reason for its decision. 
Ive noted that, even though its not obliged to give a reason for its decision it has now done 
so. It says Mr As conduct was not in line with what it would tolerate. And, Mr A has 
acknowledged that he got angry with HSBCs staff because of the way he says he was 
being treated. 
I can see the terms and conditions for the current account also state HSBC can close the 
account immediately if it believes the customer has
 acted abusively, offensively or violently towards staff.  
But it didnt close Mr As current account immediately, even though it says his conduct was 
not in line with what it would tolerate. Instead it decided to give him two months notice. And, 
having thought about it, Im satisfied HSBC was acting reasonably when it decided to give 
Mr A the full two months notice before closing his accounts.
Mr A says he didnt get the letter from HSBC which gave him notice that the accounts would 
be closed. But as our investigator has said I dont think its fair and reasonable to say HSBC 
did anything wrong. Its provided a copy of its records which show that the letter was sent. 
And, those records also show that the letter was correctly addressed. So, Im satisfied HSBC 
did everything it needed to do to comply with the terms and conditions for the accounts. And, 
I dont think HSBC can be held responsible if Mr A didnt receive the letter.
Mr A says HSBCs decision caused him pain and agony. I can understand that after twenty 
years of having his accounts with HSBC he wouldve been disappointed by its decision. But, 
having considered everything here, Im not persuaded it acted unfairly or unreasonably when 
it decided to close his accounts and gave him two months notice to make alternative 
banking arrangements. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC UK Bank plc.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman