The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has turned 
down a claim they made on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S got in touch with LV. A tree on their property had been found to be diseased 
and it needed to be felled. So they wanted to make a claim for the costs of getting it cut 
down.
LV turned down their claim. It said that as the tree hadnt caused damage and cutting it down 
was a preventative measure, their claim wasnt covered by the buildings section of their 
policy. It also said that the claim wouldnt be covered by the home emergency section of the 
policy.
Mr and Mrs S were unhappy with LVs decision. They asked us to look into their complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs S complaint should be upheld. He didnt think the 
need to fell the tree was something the policy covered. So he thought it was fair for LV to 
turn down Mr and Mrs S claim.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed. They asked for an ombudsman to look at their complaint. They 
later let us know that two branches had fallen from the tree and caused damage to a gas 
canister. The investigator contacted LV, which confirmed this was being dealt with 
separately by its home emergency team. So I havent considered that incident in this 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for LV 
to turn down Mr and Mrs S claim. Ill explain why.
Home insurance policies are generally designed to provide cover against one-off, 
unexpected events which have caused damage or loss. Theyre not maintenance contracts, 
and theyre not intended to cover actions by a policyholder which may go on to prevent loss.
Insurers set out what they do and dont want to cover in their policy terms. For a claim to be 
paid, it needs to be because of something thats covered by the policy  which we generally 
call an insured event. LVs policy lists the insured events it covers  which include fire, theft, 
flood and storm. 
DRN-1424572Ive carefully looked at the terms of Mr and Mrs S insurance policy  under both the 
buildings section and the home emergency section. The cutting down of a diseased tree 
simply isnt something thats covered by either section of Mr and Mrs S policy. Given they 
were told the tree could become dangerous if it wasnt felled, I can entirely understand why 
they were keen for it to be cut down. But as the tree didnt cause damage which was 
covered by this claim, I think it was reasonable for LV not to pay their claim.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr and Mrs S position, Ive decided it was fair for LV to turn 
down their claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've given above, my final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman