DRN-3823232
The complaint
Mr M has complained American Express Services Europe Limited didnt apply a block to his 
account after they confirmed they would.
What happened
Mr M holds an Amex card and a member of his family is a supplementary cardholder on his 
account.
In March Mr M asked Amex to block a certain merchant from taking further payments from 
the cards. Amex confirmed they would. A month later Mr M noticed further transactions 
being made to the supposedly blocked merchant and phoned Amex again. They apologised 
for not applying the block and paid him £50 in compensation.
In May Mr M noticed further transactions to the same merchant. He raised further concerns 
with Amex. Amex told Mr M they couldnt block this merchant as the supplementary 
cardholder was using an app which Amex couldnt block.
Mr M was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. Our 
investigator told Amex shed be upholding this complaint. Amex should have made it clearer 
to Mr M why they couldnt apply the block hed requested.
Amex disagreed with this outcome. They drew our attention to the requirement under their 
terms and conditions for the cardholder to be liable for supplementary cardholder 
transactions which had been properly authorised.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Amex provided us with copies of the calls they had with Mr M over this dispute. Amex had 
two opportunities on 16 March and 19 April to explain to Mr M why the specific payments he 
wished to block wouldnt be possible. But in fact Amex confirmed blocks would be placed. I 
accept further conditions were discussed on the call but I dont believe a customer would 
generally understand that this may mean blocking would be difficult.
The transaction itself is regarded as a recurring transaction. This places obligations on a 
financial institution to do what they can to minimise transactions as instructed.
From what I can see Amex had all the information they needed to make it clear to Mr M why 
what he wished wouldnt be possible. They understood a game was being used by the 
additional cardholder and werent as specific as Id expect in these circumstances.
Theres always a slight imbalance in the relationship between a financial institution and their 
customer. In general the financial institution always has more power and knowledge. And in 
this case Id have expected Amex to make more of an effort to explain why blocking these 
transactions wouldnt be wholly successful.
I appreciate what Amex has said about their terms and conditions. I dont dispute the 
supplementary cardholder authorised these transactions but at the same time, Amex were 
fully aware at the time that the main cardholder was asking for their assistance to prevent 
further transactions.
Overall I think Amex should have done more.
Putting things right
Further small-value transactions continued to be made to Mr Ms Amex card account after 
Mr M requested these to be blocked. Mr Ms statement for May (dated 15 May 2022) show 
transactions for dates in April and May. There may well be additional transactions.
I can see Amex sent Mr M a final response to his complaint dated 30 June 2022. This 
explained fully why a block wouldnt be possible. I think at that date Mr M should have known 
he would need to take other steps to stop further use by the supplementary cardholder. I 
appreciate this is a sensitive family issue for Mr M and he may not wish to raise this directly. 
However I dont believe it would be fair to expect Amex to sort this issue out for him long-
term now that he knows why this proves difficult.
Amex will need to reimburse Mr M for all the transactions subject to his blocking request 
from 15 April to 30 June 2022. 8% simple interest should also be added to this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct American Express Services Europe 
Limited to:
Reimburse Mr M for transactions made to the merchant he blocked from 15 April to 
30 June 2022; and
Add 8% simple interest to those transactions from the time they were debited from 
Mr Ms account until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman