DRN-4166313
The complaint
Ms K complains that Klarna Bank AB (publ) terminated her account and sold it to a debt 
collection agency. She also complains that Klarna charged her over £3,600 in payments 
which had nothing to do with her account.
What happened
Ms K had an account with Klarna, with a balance of approximately £2,000. In September 
2019 her account was defaulted, because she had not been making her monthly payments. 
A few days later, Ms K contacted Klarna and asked to pay off the outstanding balance. She 
was given a payment reference for her to provide when she made the payment, but she 
didnt use it, and so her payment was not allocated to her account. A few days later, her 
credit agreement was terminated, in October 2019.
Two years later, in September 2021, the debt was sold to a third party. Both parties wrote to 
Ms K to tell her in October. This caused her some anxiety, as she had thought that the whole 
debt had been paid off two years earlier. And at around that time, Ms K was applying for a 
mortgage with another bank. Her mortgage application was declined, and the reason given 
was because there was unsatisfactory information in her credit file. Ms K concluded that 
this must have been her outstanding debt with Klarna.
Ms K complained about the sale of the debt, the failure to discharge it, and the effect on her 
mortgage application. And around this time she discovered that in December 2019 and 
January 2020 18 payments to Klarna had been made from her bank account, which she had 
known nothing about and which appeared to have nothing to do with her Klarna account. 
These payments added up to over £3,600. She complained about that too.
Klarnas final response letter did not deal with the unexplained payments. It upheld Ms Ks 
complaint about selling the debt, but on the mistaken ground that the debt had already been 
sold before she had tried to pay off the balance, instead of two years later; and Klarna did 
not offer her any compensation for that. Being dissatisfied with that response, Ms K brought 
this complaint to our service.
In response to this complaint, Klarna disowned its final response letter, and put forward a 
new defence. Firstly, it said that because Ms K had failed to provide the payment reference, 
her payment in 2019 had not been credited to her account, and so the debt had continued to 
be reported to credit reference agencies with the full outstanding balance. Secondly, Ms K 
had not actually paid the full balance, but had been about £77 short, so even if the payment 
reference had been given, there would still have been an outstanding balance anyway, and 
her agreement would still have been terminated. For both of these reasons, Klarna had been 
entitled to sell the debt. And thirdly, the unexplained payments were card payments which 
had been made by a fraudster, and these had been promptly charged back, so Ms K had not 
been out of pocket for long. But Klarna later offered to buy back the debt and clear the 
remaining balance as a gesture of good will.
Our investigator upheld this complaint in part. He thought that Klarna should not have waited 
two years to sell the debt. This had meant that when Ms K was told about the outstanding 
balance of £2,000 after two years, it had come as a great shock to her. He recommended 
that Klarna pay her £350 for that. But he did not think that Klarna was responsible for Ms Ks 
mortgage application being declined. He said there was not enough evidence about the 
other banks reasons for its decision. It had only said there was unsatisfactory information in 
Ms Ks credit file, not that her Klarna account was the sole reason.
Neither party accepted that decision. Ms K maintained that Klarna should have to pay her 
the difference between the cost of the mortgage which had been declined and the cost of the 
mortgage she had got instead, which is £103 a month; over a fixed rate for five years this 
comes to £6,180. And Klarna stood by its defence, and argued that this complaint should not 
be upheld at all. But it said its offer remained open.
As no agreement could be reached, this case was referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think that three things went wrong which led to a default balance of over 
£2,000 being reported on Ms Ks credit file for two years.
Firstly, I have seen evidence that when Ms K contacted Klarna in September 2019 and 
asked about how to pay off the balance, Klarna gave her a payment reference and told her 
she would need to give it when she made the payment. Her failure to do that meant that 
when Klarna received her payment, it did not know whose account to credit it to. Klarna had 
not received any payments from Ms K before, so it couldnt just search its records and match 
her bank details to a previous monthly payment. It was unable to credit her account until she 
complained two years later.
Secondly, Ms K did not pay the full outstanding balance. I have seen the default notice of 
August 2019, and it clearly said that the total balance was £2,026.20 (although Ms K only 
needed to pay arrears of £31.91 to avoid a default). But in September Ms K only paid 
£2,019.47, which was not quite enough to close the account, and so her agreement was 
terminated in October 2019. By then, the outstanding balance had increased to £2,056.03, 
due to interest and late payment fees, and so this is the amount which was reported as the 
default balance. Even if Ms K had provided the payment reference, there would still have 
been a default balance of £77.58 reported on her credit file.
However, this could all have been resolved in 2019 if Klarna had not waited another two 
years before acting. During that interval, Klarna appears to have done nothing with Ms Ks 
account. It could  and in my view, should  have sold the debt earlier than that. When the 
debt was finally sold in September 2021, Ms K was told about in in writing by both Klarna 
and the debt collection agency, and that is what prompted this complaint and the discovery 
by Klarna that most of the default balance had already been paid. If that had happened in or 
around (let us say) November 2019, then the matter would have been quietly resolved 
before Ms K ever applied for a mortgage. This delay by Klarna has not been explained; it 
wasnt chasing Ms K for payment in the meantime.
For that reason, I propose to uphold this complaint on that ground. But although our 
investigator was aware of the matters Klarna has raised in its defence, I do not think that the 
recommended award of £350 takes sufficient account of them. I propose to reduce that 
award to £100. But I also think that Klarna should arrange to change the way Ms Ks account 
has been reported to the credit reference agencies, because I am satisfied that Ms K would have paid off the default balance in full if Klarna had sold the account sooner than it did, or 
had contacted her about the account after September 2019. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from either party about that, I am minded to say that any adverse 
information about the account after March 2020 should be removed from Ms Ks credit file.
I do not think that the reason given by the other bank for declining the mortgage application 
is sufficient evidence that the Klarna default balance was the only or principal reason for that 
decision. So I do not intend to hold Klarna responsible for that.
The fraudulent card payments were charged back, meaning that the money was returned to 
Ms Ks account. So I am not persuaded that Klarna did anything wrong. (I will reconsider this 
if any of the 18 payments were not refunded.)
So my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive from the parties by the date below, I intend to order Klarna Bank 
AB (publ) to pay Ms K £100, and to arrange to remove any adverse data about the account 
after March 2020 from her credit file.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ms K was very disappointed with my provisional decision. She said £100 did not reflect the 
massive financial impact on her of missing out on the mortgage deal she had wanted, and 
the further hardship she will endure when she re-mortgages soon.
She added that the credit reference agency had already removed the adverse data in 2022.
Klarna accepted my provisional decision.
My findings
The £100 compensation I proposed in my provisional decision was not for Mrs K missing out 
on the mortgage deal she wanted, because I did not think that Klarna Bank was responsible 
for that. So there is no reason for me to depart from my provisional findings, and I confirm 
them here.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Klarna Bank AB (publ) to pay Ms K 
£100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman