DRN-2863811
The complaint
Ms T complains that Santander UK plc blocked her account. She says this caused her 
trouble and upset so she wants Santander to pay her compensation.
What happened
Ms T has a current account and savings account with Santander.
In May 2020, Ms T tried to make an £8,000 online payment to her partners account, who will 
refer to as X. The payment was declined by the bank. So, Ms T called Santander to find out 
if there was a problem with her account and why the payment wouldnt go through.
The payment flagged Santanders security systems so when Ms T rung the bank, Santander 
asked her questions about the source of the funds. Santander also noticed Ms T had 
received approximately £170,000 in March 2020 from X. So, asked her for an explanation for 
the activity.
Ms T told Santander that all the money paid into her account, including the £8,000, belonged 
to X and was the proceeds of a recent house sale. She explained that X had been worried 
his money wasnt safe in his own bank as his balance exceeded the banks compensation 
scheme allowance, so hed moved money into her account for safe keeping. And she was 
now simply returning the money to him.
 
Santander asked Ms T to provide evidence of the source of funds, including Xs bank 
statements. And placed a block on Ms Ts accounts whilst it waited for her to provide the 
information.
 
Ms T says when she spoke to Santander about the transactions the advisor made her feel 
as if shed done something wrong, mentioned money laundering and treated her like a 
criminal, which shed found quite upsetting and frightening. Ms T says Santander agreed she 
could transfer some money out of her account to another account to help her get by until it 
had looked into things. But before she was able to arrange this the bank blocked her 
account. So, she was left without any money and had to resort to asking friends and 
neighbours for help, which was embarrassing and inconvenient.
 
Ms T says she was shielding at the time the bank blocked her account due to Covid, and if 
the bank had given her time, she wouldve been able to arrange for her daughter to go into 
branch and take out money from her account before Santander blocked it. But she hadnt 
been able to do this as the Santander didnt arrange this.
Ms T provided Santander with some information on 14 May 2020, but the information she 
provided was her bank statements and not Xs. So, Santander asked Ms T for more 
information on 15 May 2020, which she provided on 18 May 2020. The bank reviewed the 
paperwork Ms T provided, which included Xs banks statements and unblocked her account 
the same day. 
Ms T complained to the bank about the block. She said the advisor she spoke to was 
accusatory and frightened her when he mentioned money laundering. She said shed been 
left without any money and had to borrow from friends. Santander apologised for any trouble 
and upset the block had caused Ms T. But explained it was complying with its legal 
obligations and relevant legislation when it blocked Ms Ts account and asked her for 
information. But as a gesture of good will it offered Ms T £60. 
Ms T wasnt happy with this response. She said the compensation offered doesnt 
adequately reflect the amount of trouble and upset she suffered. So, she brought her 
complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ts complaint. She said Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it had blocked Ms Ts account and asked her for information. The 
investigator thought that when Ms T had spoken with Santander on 6 May 2020, the staff 
had done their best to explain why the bank had blocked her account, and whilst she may 
have found some of the questions they asked about the activity on her account, upsetting, 
the staff werent accusatory. And had apologised for any upset the block caused her. But 
she said Santander didnt make it clear to Ms T during the call, that she could access some 
of the money in her account by transferring it to an account she had with another bank. 
The investigator also said that the bank didnt let Ms T know she could access her benefit 
money, which made up some of the balance in her account, until 15 May 2020. 
However, the investigator noted that Ms T didnt have another account she could withdraw 
money from, so Santander wouldnt have been able to transfer money, her daughter also 
wouldnt have been able to go into branch and transact on her behalf, and she hadnt told 
the bank she was shielding until 18 May 2020. So, overall, she thought the bank had done 
enough to put things right.
Ms T disagreed. She said the banks actions had left her in a difficult financial situation  
shed had to borrow money from X, and ask neighbours for help, so she wants more 
compensation. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to ask Santander to do anything more to resolve Ms Ts 
complaint. Ill explain why.
account block
Firstly, the investigator was right to point out that Santander has important legal and 
regulatory obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations 
are ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its 
obligations Santander may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. 
In order to meet these requirements Santander is entitled to ask a customer for more 
information about how they use their account, including payments which are made into and 
out of an account. And its not for this service to interfere with the banks processes. Our role 
is to see if the bank has made any mistakes and then put the customer back in the position 
theyd have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for Santander to block Ms Ts account and ask her for information about the source of funds coming into her account and the £8,000 payment she wanted to make to X in May 2020. 
Santander has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. 
Having looked at the activity on Ms Ts account I can see that at the time Ms T had been 
making  unusually large and out of character payments into and out of her account. 
According to the banks records, prior to receiving the large payments from X, Ms Ts 
balance was less than £1,000 every month. So, I can understand why Santander had 
concerns and wanted to find out more about the payments. Whilst I accept this caused Ms T 
inconvenience, I cant say Santander treated her unfairly when it blocked her account and 
asked her to provide information. So, it wouldnt be appropriate to make an award of 
compensation for that, since I dont believe Santander acted inappropriately and treated 
Ms T unfairly in taking the actions it did. I can also see that once Ms T provided Santander 
the information it needed, it removed the block from her account quickly.
phone calls with the bank
Ms T is also unhappy about the service she received from Santander. She says when she 
called Santander on 6 May 2020, the advisor frightened her by talking about money 
laundering, was accusatory and made her feel like a criminal. 
Ive listened to the call recordings of the conversations Ms T had with the bank on 6 May 
2020 where the bank asked Ms T about the activity on her account. Having done so, I dont 
agree that the advisor was accusatory. He explained to Ms T why the bank thought the 
activity appeared out of character and asked Ms T questions which in my view were 
reasonable and necessary so that the bank could ensure it was complying with its legal and 
regulatory obligations  such as why Ms T appeared to be transferring the same money back 
to X after hed transferred it to her. At no time in the call did the advisor accuse Ms T of 
money laundering  instead he explained that he was worried Ms T might be innocently 
caught up in a scam. And apologised for any upset the block and his questions caused 
Ms T.
Its clear that during the call, Ms T was annoyed and upset. And I can understand why  as 
far as she was concerned, she wasnt doing anything wrong. She was just moving money 
around for her partner X, whod told her he was worried his bank might go bankrupt and hed 
lose all his money. But Santander was entitled to ask Ms T about the activity on her account. 
And having listened to the call I found that the advisor was polite, listened to Ms T and tried 
to be helpful by explaining the banks concerns and what information Ms T needed to 
provide. 
However, I do note that at the start of the call, when Ms T asked how she was going to pay 
for things, the advisor suggested hed be able to transfer some money to another of Ms Ts 
accounts so that she could pay for her everyday living expenses. But he didnt end up 
arranging for this to be done. And he didnt tell Ms T she could have access to her state 
benefits in the account. Santander didnt give Ms T this information until 15 May 2020. So, I 
think Santander couldve provided Ms T with better service. 
Santander has apologised and offered Ms T £60 as a gesture of goodwill for any trouble and 
upset they caused by its processes and when handling her calls. Overall, I think Santander 
has done enough to put things right. In reaching this conclusion, Ive kept in mind that Ms T 
didnt have another account that she could make withdrawals from (she only had a savings 
account elsewhere). This means Santander wouldnt have been able to follow through with 
its offer to transfer money for her on 6 May 2020. So, I think its offer is a fair and reasonable 
way to resolve this aspect of Ms Ts complaint. And, while I appreciate Ms T wont agree, 
I wont be asking it to do anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not going to ask Santander UK Plc to do anything more 
to resolve Ms Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman