DRN-3202085
The complaint
Mr O complained that TFS Loans Limited lent to him irresponsibly and provided him with a 
loan that was unaffordable.
What happened
Mr O was given a loan by TFS as follows:
Date of 
loanLoan 
amountTerm 
(months)Monthly 
repaymentLoan status
27/03/18 £1,000 24 £69.11 Defaulted in June 2019
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Os complaint. He didnt think that TFS shouldve 
provided the loan to Mr O and he set out the steps that TFS needed to take to put things 
right.
TFS disagreed with our investigator and asked for the case to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. It mainly said that:
Mr O had shown he was managing his finances as he had up to date credit and one 
of the defaults had a reducing balance
he had limited household costs and the income and expenditure assessment TFS did 
showed he could easily afford the small monthly repayments for this loan
the checks TFS carried out were proportionate as this was a small loan over a short 
term
it was satisfied TFS made a fair lending decision.
So the complaint comes to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding this complaint. Having done so, I am upholding 
Mr Os complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain my reasons.
There are some general principles I will keep in mind and questions I need to think about 
when deciding whether to uphold Mr Os complaint. Before agreeing to lend, lenders must 
work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments alongside other reasonable expenses 
the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out. For example, when thinking about what a 
borrower has left to spend on a new loan after paying other expenses, as well as taking into  
account the loan amount, the cost of the repayments and how long the loan is for, a 
proportionate check might mean a lender should also find out the borrowers credit history 
and/or take further steps to verify the borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done. If proportionate checks were done 
and a loan looked affordable, a lender still needed to think about whether there was any 
other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend. For example, if the lender 
shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money problems for a borrower 
who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a sustainable way. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended period).

Ive kept all these things in mind when thinking about this complaint.
When Mr O applied for the loan, TFS asked about his income. After looking at screenshots 
of his bank statements TFS did some calculations and recorded that Mr Os average monthly 
income was approximately £1,480. 
It asked Mr O about his regular expenditure and did its own credit checks to find out about 
his credit history. TFS allowed for his spending on the credit commitments it saw in his credit 
file and also took into account a further loan that Mr O mentioned  not shown on the credit 
checks TFS acquired.
TFS worked out that Mr O should still expect to have disposable income of around £585 
after paying his TFS loan.
TFS said its affordability checks were adequate and proportionate and based on the 
information gathered at the time of the application, the loan was affordable. But I dont think 
TFS made a fair lending decision when it lent to Mr O based on the information it had 
gathered. 
I say this because despite recording information that appeared to show that Mr O had a 
substantial amount of spare cash each month, I agree with our investigator that although the 
loan mightve looked affordable to TFS, this information appeared to be at odds with the 
information it had gathered showing warning signs that Mr O was struggling to manage his 
finances.
I dont think that anything Mr O said was enough to explain the extent of his recent reliance 
on expensive credit that TFS was aware of. TFS understood that Mr O had been in 
reasonably paid steady work for the last year and a half and he wasnt responsible for supporting any dependants and living with his parents - so he had only limited responsibility 
for many of the usual household costs.
Despite this, TFS was aware that Mr O had recently taken out at least two expensive 
unsecured loans from other high cost credit providers and he was making token repayments 
to a defaulted account. I think the information it gathered raised important questions about 
why someone in Mr Os circumstances apparently needed to borrow this expensive credit. 
And whilst the loan purpose was stated as £500 for a holiday and £500 for car repairs, 
I dont think it was very clear why Mr O needed to borrow this loan when it would appear that 
his monthly disposable income according to TFS would have more than fully covered at least 
one of those expenses.
So I think TFS should have carried out more in-depth checks and taken additional steps to 
verify Mr Os financial situation before agreeing to provide the loan. TFS hasnt shown me it 
did this. This means I cant fairly say that it carried out a proportionate check before agreeing 
to lend this loan. So I've thought carefully about what TFS is likely to have found out had it 
done a proportionate check  and whether this information was likely to have affected the 
lending decision it made.
I've looked at a credit report provided by Mr O which I think gives a useful insight into 
understanding Mr Os overall financial situation at the time. I think if TFS had done a 
proportionate check before lending, it wouldve likely seen more information showing that 
there was a real risk that this loan wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable over the loan 
term.
I say this because if TFS had gained a better understanding of Mr Os finances and his use 
of credit, it would have seen that Mr O had taken out a further loan within the last three 
months - Mr O had borrowed £2,000 and needed to make monthly repayments of £151. 
Given that TFS was already aware that he needed to make repayments totalling £271 
towards the two other unsecured loans it knew about, together with the monthly repayments 
for the loan TFS was providing, this brought Mr Os total spending on all these loans to 
around £491.
This meant that Mr O would need to spend more than a third of his average net monthly 
income on servicing this debt. I think that this was such a significant proportion of Mr Os 
take home pay that he was unlikely to be able to sustain repayments at this level. And 
bearing in mind the loan purposes, TFS ought reasonably to have been aware that taking 
further, costly lending was likely to add unsustainably to Mr Os overall indebtedness and be 
detrimental to Mr O. 
I think thats borne out by the information I can see on his more recent credit report that 
shows the following month a county court judgement debt (CCJ) was obtained against Mr O, 
followed by a second CCJ a couple of months later, and ultimately Mr O had payment 
problems on this loan and other accounts. To my mind, if it had done a proportionate check, 
I think TFS shouldve realised that Mr O was not in a position to sustainably repay this high-
cost loan and the money problems that followed were reasonably foreseeable.
So, it follows that I dont think TFS should have agreed to provide this loan to Mr O in these 
circumstances.
As Mr O has been further indebted by the cost of this loan when he shouldnt have been 
provided with it, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what TFS did wrong. So, 
I think TFS needs to put things right.Putting things right
Our investigator didnt recommend that TFS should pay any additional redress. Mr O hasnt 
commented on that and I havent seen anything which makes me think TFS acted unfairly 
towards Mr O in any other way. So Im not awarding any additional redress.
And I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr O to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But in line with this Services approach, Mr O 
shouldnt repay more than the capital amount he borrowed.
If TFS has sold any outstanding debt it should buy this back if able to do so and then take 
the following steps. Otherwise, TFS should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the 
results outlined below and do the following:
add up the total amount of money Mr O received as a result of being given the loan. 
The payments Mr O made should be deducted from this amount
if this results in Mr O having paid more than he received, then any overpayments 
should be refunded along with 8% simple interest* (calculated from the date the 
overpayments were made until the date of settlement)
if any capital balance remains outstanding, then TFS should attempt to arrange an 
affordable/suitable payment plan with Mr O bearing in mind the need to treat him 
positively and sympathetically in those discussions.
Whilst its fair that Mr Os credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, 
its unfair that he should be disadvantaged by any adverse information recorded 
about a loan that was unfairly provided. So TFS should remove any negative 
information placed on Mr Os credit file regarding the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must give Mr O 
a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint and direct TFS Loans Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman