DRN-4229376
The complaint
Ms R has complained about Legal and General Assurance Society Limiteds (L&Gs) 
handling of waiver of premium claim under her life assurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again in 
full here. In summary L&G has now agreed to meet Ms Rs claim with interest and pay her 
compensation. Our investigator thought this was fair. Ms R asked for an ombudsman to 
decide. 
As Ms R is aware, in this decision Im only considering her waiver of premium complaint, 
other matters having already been considered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive focused on what I find are the key issues here, our rules allow me to take this approach. 
It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. If 
theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the 
file and considered the representations Ms R has made.  Having done so I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Having told Ms R it would waive the premiums on her life policy, it didnt do so but 
continued to collect premiums from Ms R. L&G accepts that it should have actioned 
Ms Rs waiver claim and in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused to 
Ms R it apologised and offered £500 compensation. I should point out that it is not for 
this service to punish financial businesses for errors; rather we look to see what 
impact that error or omission has had on the consumer.
I agree that compensation is due for the error which caused delay. Ms R has 
explained how stressful and traumatic this time has been for her. The situation was 
affecting her mental health, she was vulnerable, without finances and had to keep 
chasing L&G - on occasion not getting a reply to her emails. Awarding financial 
compensation is not an exact science and it is difficult to measure distress and 
inconvenience caused. But in the circumstances, Im satisfied a total payment of 
£500 is fair.
L&G backdated the waiver of premium claim to 22 February 2022 and refunded the 
premiums Ms R had paid. It has also offered to pay simple interest at 8% per year on 
the premiums collected in error. This puts Ms R back in the position she should have 
been in financially had the error not occurred. Together with the compensation, I find 
this is a fair and reasonable resolution to the complaint.
My final decision
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited has now made an offer to settle the complaint 
that I find is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should:
Pay Ms R £500 in compensation if it hasnt already done so.
Pay simple interest of 8% per year on the premiums collected in error from the date 
of collection until settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman