DRN-2296122
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited declined claims under his home 
emergency policy following a heating problem and a burst water tank.
What happened
Mr M had a British Gas homecare policy which covered his boiler and included an annual 
service. In February 2020 an engineer came to service the unit. But he said the boiler was 
leaking emissions from the flue and needed to be turned off and isolated. Mr M and his wife 
are both disabled and vulnerable and they were left without any heating overnight.
The following day another engineer arrived with some heaters. But the second engineer said 
the repairs wouldnt be covered by the homecare policy as the flue was over one metre long. 
And he suggested a number of options for repairing or replacing the heating system. 
Mr M said the water tank in the loft began leaking a week or so after the engineer had turned 
off the heating. Another British Gas engineer drained the tank before turning off its water 
supply. But he didnt try and fix the leak. Mr M said he wasnt aware the flue wasnt covered. 
Hes found the situation very stressful. And he shouldve been offered a discount to the 
replacement quote from British Gas as hed been a loyal customer for many years. Mr M 
says he and his wife were without normal heating for four weeks. And his electricity bill was 
much higher because of the portable heaters. So he wants compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience.
British Gas said itd attended the property on a large number of occasions in the last ten 
years. And itd advised Mr M that the system was getting old and difficult to repair. British 
Gas said its engineer had taken the right action by isolating the boiler. 
The flue wasnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy. So the engineer had 
given some options for repairs, replacing the full system or asking for a third-party quote. 
The engineer also told Mr M they could still get hot water from the immersion tank. 
British Gas said Mr M called back later that day but unfortunately a different engineer went to 
the wrong property and Mr M was visited the following day to complete some tests and 
discuss the various options. British Gas said it also provided some fan heaters to Mr M. Its 
heating sales adviser visited Mr M and provided a quote to replace the full system, but Mr M 
hadnt followed it up. 
British Gas said a number of different parties had also visited Mr M to look at the problem. 
And a new heating system had now been installed via the local council. So it felt any of them 
couldve potentially caused the water cylinder to leak and it wouldnt take responsibility for 
the problem. Itd acted correctly within the terms and conditions of the cover.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with British Gas response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She could see Mr and Mrs M were both very vulnerable 
with daily carers. And it was the carers whod help them apply for a grant for a new heating 
system.
British Gas terms and conditions stated it wouldnt cover repairs or replacements to flues 
that were over one metre in length. So she could see why itd applied the exclusion and 
declined the claim. But given how vulnerable Mr and Mrs M were, she didnt think it was right 
they were left without any alternative heating until the next day. 
Our investigator said the policy covered repairs to the hot-water cylinder and cold-water 
tanks. So Mr Ms leak shouldve been dealt with. Instead British Gas had referred Mr M to 
the third party whod installed the new boiler. But the new system hadnt been installed until 
over three weeks later. And she thought British Gas couldve done more to help. Mr and 
Mrs M had been left without a proper heating system for four weeks. And she recommended 
British Gas consider £500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
British Gas didnt agree. So its asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Fan heaters had 
been left the following day. And Mr and Mrs M did have other forms of hot water available. 
British Gas said there were third parties present went itd come to look at the water tank. And 
when the sales adviser had attended there were multiple tradesman also quoting for the 
same work and trying to repair the problem. So it felt it was possible the leak couldve been 
caused by one of the third parties. And it wouldnt be covered by the service contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M had a homecare agreement with British Gas to help look after his heating system. Both 
Mr and Mrs M are very vulnerable and have daily carers to help. So they wouldve relied on 
the cover provided by British Gas for peace of mind. And I can understand their concern 
when the engineer said the flue wasnt covered and he had to turn off the heating for safety 
reasons. 
British Gas says its terms and conditions make it clear it would only work on flues up to one 
metre in length. And I think British Gas did the right thing when it discovered the flue was 
causing potentially dangerous fumes. It needed to make sure Mr and Mrs M were safe. So it 
shut down the heating and hot water system. Although it says Mr M couldve still got hot 
water from a different source. 
But British Gas left a vulnerable couple without heating overnight and a planned return visit 
that day didnt happen because the engineer went to the wrong address. Mr M says the 
second engineer said the first engineer shouldve arranged some alternative heating 
immediately. And I think thats right, especially given Mr and Mr Ms situation.
On follow-up visits Mr M was advised the whole heating system should be replaced. British 
Gas said it was quite old and becoming difficult to repair. But although British Gas provided a 
quotation for around £6000 it didnt mention whether financing or grants might be available. 
I realise Mr M didnt get back to British Gas about what he wanted to do. But the couple are 
quite elderly and need daily care. And it mustve been very confusing and worrying to be 
without proper heating and facing a large replacement cost.
I understand the carers who visit every day were responsible for looking into a grant to help 
Mr and Mrs M. But they had to wait for around four weeks before the council were able to 
arrange the installation of a new system. And during that wait they had to rely on electric 
heaters which added about £400 to their electricity bill. Mr M said the leaking water tank damaged some linen and bedding. And the leak happened 
about three weeks before the new boiler was installed. So British Gas shouldve repaired the 
leak under the homecare policy.
Mr M has confirmed the only engineers who attended his property were from British Gas. 
Hed had other tradesman installing insulation. And the firm who installed the new system 
had used the British Gas survey to plan the new system. They hadnt attended before the 
actual fitting.
Although I think British Gas was entitled to decline the initial claim when it discovered the 
flue was outside the length covered by the homecare policy, I do think it shouldve done 
more to sort out some overnight heating for Mr and Mrs M. 
And I do think it shouldve responded differently when Mr M reported a leak from the water 
tank. It was aware Mr and Mrs M were vulnerable and in difficulty. And although they hadnt 
decided on a replacement system through British Gas they were still covered by the 
homecare policy. Mr M said one of its engineers told him the previous engineer shouldve 
drained the tank and turned off the water supply to it when the heating system had been 
turned off. So its possible the leak couldve been avoided if British Gas had dealt with the 
first problem differently. 
British Gas says other parties were also looking at the heating system and its possible one 
of them was responsible for the tank leaking. So it told Mr M to contact the company whod 
installed his new heating system. British Gas engineers and sales adviser said theyd seen 
other tradesmen at the property. But Mr M said that related to his housing insulation. 
I wouldnt expect British Gas to cover damage caused by another business. But it seems the 
leak occurred before the new system was installed. And Ive not seen any evidence to 
suggest anyone else was responsible for causing the leak. So I dont think it was right for 
British Gas to decline the claim and leave the leak unfixed. It would only have added to the 
distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M were already suffering. 
I can see Mr M has now obtained help from his local council and a new heating system has 
been fitted. But he and his wife were without central heating or hot water for over three 
weeks. And they are both vulnerable and at risk of serious health problems. 
British Gas was entitled to rely on the terms and conditions of the homecare policy to decline 
to repair the flue. But I think it couldve done more to help Mr and Mrs M through a very 
difficult time. And the leak shouldve been fixed under the policy which covers all repairs to 
the plumbing system on your property including: the hot water cylinder and cold- water 
tanks.
Putting things right
I dont underestimate the upset this has caused Mr and Mrs M. Based on everything Ive 
seen I think British Gas was wrong to decline the claim for the leaking water tank. A 
vulnerable couple were without a proper heating and hot water system for nearly a month. 
And it was the efforts of their carers who helped them through such a difficult situation and to 
find financing for a new system. 
As a new heating system has now been installed I think its right that British Gas 
compensate Mr M for the considerable trouble and upset he was put through. I can see our 
investigator recommended British Gas pay Mr M £500 compensation. And I think thats the 
right amount for the trouble, worry and inconvenience caused.My final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay Mr M £500 for the trouble 
and upset hes experienced.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman