DRN-4385198
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr Ls complaint is about a claim they made on their AWP P&C SA (AWP) 
travel insurance policy, which was declined.
Mrs C and Mr L feel that AWP have treated them unfairly in declining their claim and for the 
way in which they handled it.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr L had a trip booked to Bruges by Eurostar. On the day of travel, they 
encountered major disruption to the public transport train they intended to take to get to the 
departure point. They say they tried alternative means to get to their departure point in time 
but were unsuccessful. As such they had to cancel their trip.
AWP considered Mrs C and Mr Ls claim for reimbursement of the losses theyd incurred but 
declined to cover them. They said the policy didnt provide cover for cancellation in the 
circumstances made. Unhappy with this and the time AWP took to consider their claim, Mrs 
C and Mr L referred their complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator considered their complaint. She asked AWP whether theyd considered the 
claim under the travel delay section of the policy. AWP replied to say there was no cover for 
this sort of claim under that section either, but they were prepared to offer Mrs C and Mr L 
£50 in compensation for the inconvenience experienced in dealing with their claim. 
Our investigator then considered everything as a whole. She concluded there was no cover 
at all for the circumstances Mrs C and Mr L were claiming for. She also thought the sum of 
£50 was adequate compensation for the time AWP took to consider their claim and the way 
in which theyd handled it.
Mrs C and Mr L have accepted the investigators view in relation to the claim but they feel 
the offer of compensation is too low and doesnt adequately reflect the stress and 
inconvenience theyve suffered. Because of this, the matter has been referred to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mrs C and Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
Although Mrs C and Mr L have accepted the investigators view on the claim itself, I have 
reviewed the policy terms myself and agree that there is no cover for the type of claim 
theyve made. Whilst the policy does cover cancellation, this is only in circumstances where 
their travel carrier (i.e. Eurostar) cant get them to their original itinerarys destination. And 
travel carrier doesnt mean local public transportation- thats defined separately within the 
policy. In addition, the travel delay section of the policy doesnt encompass the sort of 
situation Mrs C and Mr L were claiming for- and neither does any other section of the policy. 
So, Ive gone on to think about the handling of the claim more generally by AWP. Mrs C and 
Mr L have made some detailed submissions about the distress they were caused in this 
complaint. Theyve talked about the disappointment they suffered about not being 
reimbursed for something they thought they had paid additional premiums to be covered for, 
the financial loss that has placed a burden on them, the loss of expectation that they couldnt 
go on what was an important trip for Mr L as well as the stress this caused them given their 
age and circumstances. They feel that AWP unreasonably delayed considering their claim. 
Ive thought about this as well as the sum AWP have offered them and although my view will 
be disappointing for Mrs C and Mr L, I dont think this amount should be increased. 
I know that the fact that Mrs C and Mr L werent covered for this claim was very upsetting for 
them given the importance of the trip and the cost of it. But I dont think AWP were wrong to 
turn down cover so I cant say theyre responsible for this. AWP took just under eight weeks 
to give an answer on the claim. This time frame took into account referring the matter to a 
senior manager to determine whether cover could be offered. Whilst I know this might have 
felt like a long time to wait, I agree with the investigator that it wasnt exceptionally long in the 
circumstances. I know that Mr L was frustrated by having to send in documents hed already 
submitted but taking this into account together with the time AWP took to provide an answer 
on the claim, I think the payment of £50 is adequate compensation in the circumstances. 
If Mrs C and Mr L havent already received the sum of £50 from AWP and still want to, they 
should contact them directly.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs C and Mr Ls complaint against AWP P&C 
SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman