DRN-2522067
The complaint
Mr R complains that Ulster Bank Ltd acted unfairly and unreasonably by failing to email or
call him about the change of interest rate for his buy to let mortgage. He wants matters put
right.
What happened
Mr R had an interest only buy to let mortgage with Ulster. He moved abroad and was
unhappy that he wasn't told that the interest rate was changing. Mr R said as a result hes
been paying the standard variable rate (SVR) since 2010 which he believed was much
higher than other Ulster customers paid. He felt as a loyal customer this wasnt fair and he
should've been contacted by email or phone to discuss the rate changes, rather than send
letters to the address occupied by tenants.
Mr R complained to Ulster. It said in 2010 it was told by Mr Rs branch that he was unhappy
to be contacted when his mortgage product rate had ended, despite being on the SVR, and
that he was going to talk about options with the branch. Ulster said it had written in 2011 to
remind Mr R that he was on the SVR, and Mr R had called in later years to discuss the
mortgage. Ulster said it called him in 2016 to talk about the interest rate but it couldnt leave
a message, as well as sending mortgage statements each year telling him the interest rate
charged. Ulster accepted that its staff had given poor service when Mr R called in 2019 to
ask questions and paid £100 compensation, but it didnt accept it was at fault for not doing
enough to tell Mr R about the options available to him.
Mr R complained to us. He accepted that he might be to blame as well, but thought Ulster
shouldve done more to tell him about the changes to the interest rate, particularly as it had
to deal with him regularly about his business. Ulster pointed out that the mortgage moved
onto the SVR in 2010, which was more than six years ago, and Mr R had known about this
more than three years ago. The investigator agreed and said a complaint about the interest
rate itself was outside of this services jurisdiction as there werent exceptional
circumstances explaining the delay. But he thought that the complaint about Ulster not using
other methods of communication to tell Mr R about the interest rate and the options available
was in time and could be considered by this service. The parties accepted this position.
The investigators view of the merits of the remaining complaint about the methods of
contact used was that Ulster was at fault. He said that the evidence showed Ulster had
Mr Rs email address while abroad as it was used to contact him about other matters. The
investigator pointed out that Mr R shouldve been aware of how much he was paying each
month and the mortgage offer told him after two years, the interest rate would move onto the
SVR.
The investigator noted the conversations between Mr R and Ulster over the years, including
a conversation in 2016 when Mr R asked about other interest rates available to him, but
Ulster was unable to speak to him again when it called back. He also noted that the subject
wasnt raised by Ulster when Mr R rang two months later in March 2016 to talk about other
issues connected to the mortgage and it used his email address later that year to contact
him about the mortgage. Overall, the investigator thought both parties couldve done more 
Mr R couldve more clearly asked about his options and chased when he didnt get a
response and Ulster couldve talked to him about the options when he called in March 2016
and emailed. The investigator didnt think one attempt to call Mr R was enough.
The investigator said if a conversation had happened in 2016 and if a better rate was
available, it was more likely than not Mr R wouldve applied, though there was no guarantee
of success. He accepted that Mr R shouldve told Ulster much earlier how to contact him
(and it was his responsibility to do so)  he had only updated his details in 2018 since 2008.
But the investigator said the fair and reasonable outcome was for Ulster to see if a better
rate was available for Mr R on 19 January 2016 (when he first asked) and calculate the
interest he wouldve paid. The view wasnt clear about the next steps.
Ulster didnt respond. The complaint was referred to me and I issued a provisional decision 
as my view of the matter differed from that of the investigator.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I said:
I will focus on the core of Mr Rs complaint, which is about the methods of contact used by
Ulster and his belief that this stopped him from getting a lower interest rate.
While I appreciate the difficulties Mr R faced, it was his decision to move abroad and his
responsibility to tell Ulster clearly how to contact him; Mr R didnt do this until 2018. While
Mr R has shown Ulster used his email to contact him in relation to his business account, this
doesnt mean that it wasnt his responsibility to tell Ulster how to contact him about the
mortgage. Ulster even asked Mr R in 2016 to confirm how to contact him and he didnt do so
until 2018.
In terms of Ulsters responsibilities, until it is given a new correspondence address, it is
entitled to use the one it was given at the outset. Mr R couldve arranged a redirection for all
Ulster knew  it couldnt assume he hadnt. And the information its business division holds is
unlikely to be automatically shared with the mortgage team. Mr R himself told this service
that he knew letters were being sent to the property, but he didnt pick them up until some
time later. This isnt Ulsters fault.
The mortgage offer and other documents told Mr R that his mortgage would move onto the
SVR after two years in 2010. Theres no suggestion Ulster didnt follow good practice by
reminding Mr R of this  Mr R accepts he didnt get the letters because he didnt tell Ulster
where else to send them.
Mr R feels Ulster shouldve done more for him. But lenders should treat all customers fairly
and its fair and reasonable for them to have a standard process. Given it was Mr Rs
responsibility to tell Ulster how to contact him, I dont think its fair or reasonable to expect
Ulster to decide to make Mr R a special case. I note that Mr Rs call in 2016 to discuss
interest rates was returned, but it wasnt possible to leave a message  this wasnt Ulsters
fault and Mr R didnt call back. Having read the contact notes, I can see Mr R called Ulster
multiple times about other issues and never mentioned the issue about the interest rate
again. I place weight on these notes as they were written at the time before any complaint
was raised. There wasnt anything to prompt Ulster to review the rate and see what else 
might have been available. I dont agree with the investigator that when Mr R called for 
another reason, the staff shouldve read all the notes and noticed Mr R had previously wanted to discuss interest rates  nothing stopped Mr R from raising the point if he wanted 
to do so.
I would point out that while Mr R talks about other customers getting lower rates, he had a
buy to let mortgage which generally are more expensive than residential mortgages. I dont
know if there was a cheaper product available and I dont know if Mr R wouldve been
offered it if he applied. I do know that it was for Mr R to apply and ensure Ulster could
contact him, and this didnt happen.
I dont think Ulster is at fault and am not inclined to uphold the complaint.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision. Having reviewed the matter again, I 
think the findings in my provisional decision are fair and reasonable and confirm them as my 
final decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
17 February 2021.
 
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman