DRN-3603762
The complaint
G & Sons, represented by Mrs G, complained about the payment terminal provided by 
Takepayments Limited.  G & Sons said the terminal didnt do what G & Sons needed it to do, 
so the business lost money. G & Sons also complained about Takepayments customer 
service.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G, for G & Sons, met a Takepayments representative on 13 September 2021. G 
& Sons run a pub, and Mr and Mrs G said they told the rep that the most important feature 
for them was that a declined or unauthorised payment must have a visible coloured alert. 
This was because when the pub was busy, staff wouldnt have time to read paper receipts, 
and most customers didnt ask for receipts. Their current machine, at the time they met the 
rep, turned green when a payment was approved and yellow when a payment was declined. 
Mr and Mrs G say that the rep, whod brought a white terminal with him, assured them that 
the terminal would show a red symbol for declined payments.
G & Sons signed the contract on 13 September. Theyd been promised the terminal in a 
couple of days, but it didnt arrive until 23 September. It was installed the same day.
On 1 October, Mrs G emailed the Takepayments rep to say the terminal wasnt working, and 
that when a payment was declined, the screen didnt turn red as theyd been told.  They 
asked to see a list of all payments including unauthorised ones, from 23 September 
onwards. Takepayments said they wouldnt have that, but would ask the bank for them, but 
G & Sons didnt receive these.
On 13 October, Mrs G chased for the payment information, which they hadnt received. She 
said that theyd first raised the issue on 1 October, and in view of the fact that the machine 
didnt display red as theyd been told, and the length of time it took to resolve issues, they 
were cancelling the contract.
Takepayments replied the same day, saying it would chase the bank for the payment 
information. But it said that it wasnt an option for G & Sons to cancel the contract on the 
grounds that the terminal didnt show red when a payment was declined. It said the machine 
would display whether it was declined or not authorised.
G & Sons wasnt satisfied with this, and said the message only stayed on the terminal 
screen for under two seconds. In subsequent email exchanges, Takepayments said that the 
terminal colour change hadnt been mentioned during the original meeting. There was 
discussion about various terminal models, and G & Sons discovered that there was one 
which would turn red.
G & Sons emailed saying that they planned to take legal action on the grounds of mis-
selling, and on 11 November, Takepayments said it would log a complaint. But it wasnt 
done, because on 22 November Takepayments again said it would raise this as a complaint.
Takepayments then contacted G & Sons, and offered the type of terminal which did turn red. 
But by then, G & Sons said that because of the poor customer service and possible loss of 
money, it didnt want to continue with Takepayments.
Takepayments issued its final response to G & Sons complaint on 9 December. It said that 
as the meeting with the sales rep had been a face-to-face conversation, it couldnt confirm 
what had been promised. But it pointed out that it had offered to change the terminal to one 
which did have the function to change colour if a transaction was declined  but G & Sons 
had refused this.
Takepayments went on to say that G & Sons couldnt terminate its contract until the contract 
end date. It said that the contract which started on 13 September had said that the goods 
were to be hired for a minimum period of 12 months unless the agreement was terminated in 
line with the terms and conditions. And section 2.4 of those terms and conditions set out that 
G & Sons couldnt terminate the contract until the minimum term, which would be on 12 
September 2022. To do that, theyd have to give at least 2 months written notice before that 
date. 
G and Sons wasnt satisfied, and contacted this service. Since moving to Takepayments, the 
business believed it had had a possible loss of £1,820.64. And there had also been stress, 
because of the time taken as well as the loss of income.
Our investigator didnt uphold G & Sons complaint. She said there had been no evidence to 
prove that the terminal changing colour had been discussed at the initial sales meeting. So 
there was nothing to show there had been a definitive agreement about the type of terminal. 
And the agreement only said one terminal would be provided, and didnt specify a make or 
model.
The investigator looked at the terms and conditions in relation to cancelling the agreement. 
She pointed out that the terminal had arrived on 23 September, but G & Sons didnt say it 
wanted to cancel until 13 October, which was past 14 days from delivery. Section 10 of the 
terms and conditions also meant that Takepayments wasnt liable for any losses G & Sons 
might suffer. And it had offered a terminal which had the function G & Sons required. So the 
investigator said that Takepayments had offered a replacement, and werent liable for any 
loss under the terms and conditions.
G and Sons didnt agree. Mrs G explained that shed understood that our remit included 
whether an issue had been dealt with in a timely way within Takepayments complaint 
procedure  and shed never received the complaints procedure despite requests. She felt 
Takepayments continued lack of contact mean it was unlikely it had complied. Mrs G also 
said she was thinking of contacting other Takepayments customers to find out if theyd had 
similar problems about being misled.
Mrs G also said that if Takepayments had replied sooner, and told us it couldnt provide what 
theyd asked for, they could have cancelled sooner. She felt that 1 October, when shed told 
Takepayments the machine wasnt working, was the date when theyd formally complained, 
and that was only 8 days after receiving it. She said that if Takepayments had told her on 1 
October that the terminal wouldnt turn red, shed have cancelled the contract then. And she 
pointed out that Takepayments did have terminals that turned red, as confirmed in the calls 
shed had on 24 November, so she felt Takepayments behaviour was unacceptable.
The investigator replied that Takepayments had said it would log a formal complaint on 12 
November, and it had sent the final response on 9 December which was within eight weeks 
of that  and eight weeks was the time allowed to respond to a complaint.Mrs G added that Takepayments was going to charge a non-compliance fee even though 
theyd only used the machine for a week. Shed also been told by Takepayments that the 
machine which did change colour had been in use for two years.
G & Sons asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why G & Sons are upset, because they feel theyve lost money as a result 
of the terminal not changing colour. And they dont feel theyve had good service from 
Takepayments in trying to put things right.
Our investigator said that there was no evidence to show the colour change feature was 
discussed at the initial sales meeting. But as this was an important feature for G & Sons, I 
think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs G would have asked about it. So I accept that 
they raised it, though unfortunately theres no record of exactly what the salesman said in 
response about the features of the terminal theyd receive. 
Unfortunately the contract which they subsequently signed, after the oral discussion, doesnt 
specify any particular type of terminal. Nor does it say that its features would provide a 
colour alert for declined transactions. And I havent seen it set out in any email 
correspondence either before the contract, or accompanying the contract  as opposed to 
complaints afterwards. 
But if the sales meeting did discuss the need for a colour alert, I then need to go on to 
consider the financial loss which G & Sons think theyve suffered as a result.  G & Sons told 
us they believed this would be £1,820.64. But the problem is that it hasnt provided evidence 
to back up this figure. And given the varying Covid situations prevailing at the time, I think its 
very unlikely indeed that the pubs takings were reduced solely as a result of the terminal 
used. As there is no clear proof that there was a financial loss as a result, I cant award it, 
whatever was said verbally at the sales meeting.  
G & Sons are also unhappy about the cooling off period. Looking at the contract in relation to 
the cooling off period, it says that: 
The goods are to be hired for a minimum period of 12 months commencing on the Delivery 
Date and for fixed extended periods of 12 months each thereafter unless and until this 
agreement is terminated in accordance with the Terms and Conditions.
Mrs G said that the delivery date was 23 September, so this is when the contract, and the 
cooling off period, started. Fourteen days from 23 September was 7 October. Although Mrs 
G emailed Takepayments on 1 October about the terminal not turning red, G & Sons didnt 
say it wanted to cancel until 13 October. So unfortunately this was outside the 14 day 
cooling off period during which G & Sons could have cancelled. So this means that they 
arent able to get out of the contract other than as provided for in the contract. 
Takepayments final response letter confirmed this as being 12 September 2022, provided G 
& Sons give two months written notice before that date.
I can understand why, after a lot of different information about different terminal types, G & 
Sons wanted to exit the Takepayments contract. But parties in a dispute do have a 
responsibility to mitigate a loss  - in other words, to minimise their loss if they can do so. 
And as Takepayments offered G & Sons a replacement terminal which it says does change colour as they wish, I think it would be fair and reasonable to expect G & Sons to take this 
up. 
G & Sons say theyve had a lot of stress from dealing with Takepayments. And Ive seen 
some evidence that Takepayments customer service hasnt been ideal  for example it said 
it would raise a complaint on 12 November after G & Sons said it wanted to take legal action. 
But it didnt do so until 22 November when it again advised it would raise a complaint. And I 
dont doubt that Mrs G, for G & Sons, has had a lot of frustration when trying to get this 
resolved. But I think this could have been minimised if G & Sons had accepted the 
replacement terminal when offered. And unfortunately we all suffer some inconvenience in 
dealing with organisations, so I dont consider that Takepayments need pay G & Sons 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G & Sons to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman