DRN-2281592
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Aquila Financial Management Limited (Aquila) took annual 
fees but they did not receive ongoing advice and were not told that this fee could be 
cancelled. They say that they have suffered a financial loss and would like their fees 
reimbursed.
What happened
Mrs C and Mr C sought advice from Aquila in February 2007 to invest £100,000. The advisor 
recommended that they invest into an International bond provided a business I will call 
Company A. 
Aquila received an initial commission of £500 for the provision of the advice and 1% of the 
fund value every year as ongoing commission. Mrs C and Mr C were recently made aware 
by Company A that they could cancel the ongoing commission and they cancelled this fee 
arrangement.
Mr C complained to Aquila and said that they were only recently made aware that the 
ongoing commission could be cancelled and had they known this, they would have cancelled 
the charge earlier. They said that charging an ongoing commission fee should have resulted 
in the provision of ongoing advice and if appropriate, switching of funds. They also said that 
they didnt believe that their advisor was acting in their best interests.
Aquila investigated their complaint but didnt think that they had done anything wrong. They 
explained that the charges were disclosed at the time and Mrs C and Mr C had agreed to 
them. They said that there was nothing in the agreement that they had signed which 
suggested that a regular review process was to be provided but that their advisor had been 
in contact with them over the years. Aquila did not uphold their complaint.
Unhappy with Aquilas response, Mrs C and Mr C referred their complaint to the service and 
one of our investigators looked at their complaint. The investigator didnt think that Aquila 
had done anything wrong and didnt uphold the complaint. Unhappy with the investigators 
view, Mrs C and Mr C have asked for an ombudsman to review their complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mrs C and Mr C but I dont think that Aquila have done anything 
wrong and I wont be upholding their complaint. I know that they feel strongly about the 
complaint and I will explain why I have reached this decision.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I have considered the relevant law, regulation and 
best industry practice. The complaint in question deals with a change in regulation that 
happened in 2012 called the Retail Distribution Review (RDR). The regulator, FCA, made 
changes in the way that that charges were communicated and how financial advisors were 
paid. But because RDR wasnt retrospective, it didnt apply to investments that were 
purchased before 2012 which meant a lot of investments and existing fee arrangements fell 
out of scope.
Prior to RDR, it was common for financial advisors to receive income in the form of 
commission that was paid to them yearly by the product provider. This was commonly 
referred to as trail commission and was paid while the consumer held the investment. Its 
important to note that this trail commission did not create any obligation on the financial 
advisor to provide any ongoing service and crucially, trail payments for advice provided prior 
to 2012 could continue. If advice was to be provided post 2012 then the business would 
have to make it clear what charges would apply.
Mrs C and Mr Cs complaint is about the charge that they have paid to Aquila since the 
original advice was provided. I need to consider if this charge was correctly disclosed and 
what it represented. I have reviewed the original documentation and have the following 
observations:
The suitability letter that Aquila sent in 2007 following the meeting with Mrs C and Mr C 
has the following information regarding charges:
My company, Aquila Financial Management Limited will receive initially £500 from 
Standard Life for placing the investment together with 1% per annum of the fund value 
The Terms of Business between Aquila and Mrs C and Mr C says:
We normally derive our income from commission paid to us by life assurance companies 
and the operators of collective investment schemes through which investments are 
made. We shall tell you the amount of commission payable to us on any such 
investment.
If we receive a commission or other form of benefit from the issuer of a security or from 
another intermediary, we will inform you but we will not tell you the amount unless you 
ask us to do so.
From the documentation available for review, Im satisfied that the documents made it clear 
what charges would be applied. I note that Mrs C and Mr C have signed the Aquila Terms of 
Business which suggests that this was read and understood. 
In their submission to the service, Mrs C and Mr C have said that they did not receive any 
ongoing advice. They say they wrote to Aquila in 2007 to ask whether they would actively 
monitor the funds and make further recommendations where necessary. I have looked at 
this letter and Aquilas response which read I will keep an eye on performance for you also 
and advise switches if and when appropriate.
I have seen evidence from the file that Aquila switched the composition of investments within 
the bond on 3 occasions  2012, 2013 and 2017. This suggests that Aquila did review the 
performance and advise of switches. 
Going back to the agreement between Aquila and Mrs C and Mr C, I have reviewed what 
Aquila said they would do. It says:
With regard to investments that we have arranged for you, these will not be kept under 
review (unless otherwise agreed in writing) but we will advise you upon your request.In their submission to the service, Mr C said that the letter sent by Aquila in 2007 is a written 
agreement that they would keep the investment under review. The terms of business allow 
for a review of the investment to take place if it is agreed in writing. Aquila and the 
investigator have said that the letter sent by Aquila in 2007 does not constitute a written 
agreement. I disagree on this point and think that it does constitute a written agreement and 
one that is permitted within Aquilas terms of business. What the letter does not state is how 
often a review would occur and if this would attract a charge.
This leads on to the 1% of the fund charge that Aquila were paid. Mrs C and Mr C believe 
that this was for the provision of ongoing advice. I have considered this, but I think that the 
yearly charge that was applied was the trail commission which represents how Aquila were 
to be paid for recommending the investment. This yearly charge is not to pay for 
management of the investment or the provision of advice.
From the documentation available to me for review, I have not seen any evidence that Aquila 
charged for reviewing the performance of the investment and making switches. Although I 
have seen that Aquila have made switches to the investment I cant say for certain if this has 
improved the performance of the investment, but it does show that Aquila reviewed the 
performance periodically. 
In his submission to the service, Mr C has said that the arrangement to pay 1% of the fund 
value must be a tri-party agreement (between Aquila, Mrs C and Mr C and Company A) and 
that they should have had sight of this. Mr C says that this non-disclosure resulted in them 
being in a position where they were not informed. I have considered this, but Im persuaded 
that the 1% charge was adequately disclosed in the suitability letter in 2007 and was also 
referenced in the Aquila Terms of Business. 
In summary, I believe that Aquila made Mrs C and Mr C aware of the circumstances on how 
they were to be paid and this was disclosed to them. Having reviewed the regulatory 
requirements in place at the time, there was no obligation for Aquila to write to Mrs C and Mr 
C to say that the 1% annual charge would continue under the RDR changes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman