DRN-3714916
The complaint
Mr L has complained that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
Mr L opened a credit card account with NewDay (trading as Marbles) in April 2019. His credit 
limit was £250. In September 2019 it was increased to £1,500 and in November 2020 it was 
increased to £1,550  this was to prevent overlimit charges after Mr L exceeded his credit 
limit.
Mr L says that NewDay shouldnt have increased his credit limit.  Mr L says that he was 
overindebted and couldnt afford the credit. He says if NewDay had done better checks it 
would have realised this.
 
Our investigator thought that Mr Ls complaint should not be upheld. They thought that on 
the evidence available NewDay had not done anything wrong. 
Mr L disagreed. He hasnt made it clear why he disagreed other than reiterating that he was 
indebted elsewhere.  As Mr L disagreed the case has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when I have considered Mr Ls complaint.
Although Mr L only explicitly complained to this service about the credit limit increases, I 
have looked at the account from the point it was opened. 
NewDay needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and Mr Ls income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
Certain factors might point to the fact that NewDay should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include things like 
understanding Mr Ls income, the total amount Mr L borrowed, and the length of time Mr L 
had been indebted. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. 
When Mr L opened his account NewDay conducted a creditworthiness assessment. 
NewDay says that this included a review of information from credit reference agencies, 
information provided by Mr L about his income and circumstances and data which estimated 
his essential expenses. NewDay told us there were no signs of financial difficulties based on 
the checks it did. 
I think these checks were proportionate in the circumstances. And when Ive reviewed the 
checks I think they showed that the agreement was likely to be affordable for Mr L. There 
were no signs of current financial difficulty and no evidence of any defaults, arrears, CCJs, 
payday loans or bankruptcy in the last three years. Mr L had two defaults from 41 months 
prior to his application, for a total of £700, but this alone wouldnt have been sufficient to 
indicate Mr L couldnt afford the £250 opening limit. Mr Ls income indicated hed likely have 
enough disposable income to meet his repayments, even when taking into account his other 
unsecured debt at the time. So, I dont think NewDay acted irresponsibly when it approved 
the credit card.
Five months after Mr L opened the account his credit limit was increased to £1,500. He 
hadnt incurred any late payment fees or been over his limit and he was making payments 
above the minimum requirement.
 
As it was a relatively large increase in Mr Ls credit limit I think at this point it would have 
been advisable for NewDay to find out more about Mr Ls financial circumstances. 
Mr L has supplied his credit report for this period. I can see from this that he began to get 
into financial difficulty towards the end of 2021 but there isnt any evidence to suggest that if 
NewDay had asked him for more information about his circumstances in September 2019 
that it would have revealed anything of concern. We asked Mr L to supply copies of his bank 
statements, too, because they might have shown how he was managing his finances and 
meeting his repayments, but he wasnt able to provide them. 
Without more information I cant safely say that the decision to increase Mr Ls credit limit 
was irresponsible or that NewDay made an unfair lending decision. So, I cant fairly say 
NewDay did anything wrong or that Mr L lost out as a result of anything NewDay might have 
done wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. It follows that NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles, does not 
need to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman