DRN-4214687
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard cancelled the direct debit 
for his credit card account, which left him with missed payments recorded on his credit file. 
Following this, Barclaycard also took the decision to decrease Mr As credit limit. 
What happened
In November 2022, Mr A made two small transactions with his credit card which totalled 
£6.96. Mr A expected his direct debit to automatically collect the balance on the account. 
However, after he received letters from Barclaycard requesting payment, he realised the 
direct debit hadnt collected. Non-payment of the amount due resulted in Barclaycard 
reporting two missed payments to the credit reference agencies.
Mr A says he spent about eight hours on the phone trying to sort the matter out. He says the 
service he received during the calls was poor. Mr A added that he tried to make a payment 
over the phone but was told to do this using the mobile app  and when he tried to make 
payment this way, he wasnt able to. 
In addition to this, Barclaycard took the decision to reduce Mr As credit limit  and he wants 
this reinstated. 
Barclaycard responded to Mr A and upheld his complaint and paid him £100 for some of the 
service he received. It explained that the direct debit had been cancelled in accordance with 
the direct debit guarantee  because the direct debit hadnt been active for a long time. In 
any event, it agreed to remove the missed payments from his credit file. Barclaycard 
explained that it wouldnt look to reinstate his credit limit because this was a decision that 
had been made by its underwriters. Unhappy with Barclaycards response, Mr A referred the 
matter to this service.
The Investigator considered what both parties had said and decided to uphold the complaint 
 stating that Barclaycards payment of £100 hadnt fully reflected all aspects of Mr As 
complaint and so they felt Barclaycard should pay Mr A a further £50. The Investigator also 
explained that they wouldnt be asking Barclaycard to reinstate his credit limit.
Mr A didnt agree with the Investigator. He said the direct debit had been cancelled by 
Barclaycard, and they didnt let him know about this, which is what caused him to miss 
payments, spend time on the phone sorting the matter out, and his credit limit reduced. 
Initially Mr A said he would accept an additional payment of £200. But after he attempted to 
have his credit limit increased again, which Barclaycard declined, he wanted an additional 
payment of £400 to settle the matter.
Barclaycard agreed to pay Mr A £150 (in total), but it didnt agree to increase the award to 
£200. Because and agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the evidence available to me, I will be upholding Mr As complaint in 
part  for much of the same reasons to that of the Investigator. 
Barclaycard have said that the direct debit instruction was cancelled in line with the Direct 
Debit Guarantee. The guarantee explains that a bank or building society must remove 
details of a direct debit instruction from its systems after a period of dormancy  the details 
must be on file for a minimum period of 24 months. And the purpose of this is to protect 
customers from a direct debit being live on an account indefinitely. Mr As direct debit on this 
account last collected in November 2018. So, I cant fairly say that Barclaycard has done 
anything wrong in removing direct debit details from its systems in line with the guarantee. 
Ive asked Barclaycard for any of the correspondence it sent to Mr A about the direct debit 
being cancelled, but it hasnt provided me with this. Instead, it sent me a copy of its internal 
systems to show that it notified Mr A that he had missed payments. It would have been 
helpful if Barclaycard had let Mr A know that the direct debit had been cancelled and 
provided him with the opportunity to reset the direct debit should he have wanted to. This 
could have prevented the situation Mr A later found himself in when he missed repayments 
to the account. But given that Barclaycard has already agreed to remove the missed 
payment markers on his credit file, I think the impact the situation has had on Mr A in relation 
to his credit file has been minimal. And I find that this is a fair way to resolve things.
I can see that Barclaycard has taken the decision to reduce Mr As credit limit  and it has 
declined Mr As request to have this increased again. How much a business is prepared to 
lend to a customer is usually determined by its lending criteria. And this service generally 
wouldnt interfere with a business commercial decision on what risks it is prepared to take 
when lending to a customer. There is also an expectation that a business reviews the credit 
available to customers to ensure that it lends responsibly. Because of this, I cant fairly say 
that Barclaycard has done anything wrong when it took the decision to decrease Mr As 
credit limit. And I wont be asking it to reinstate the limit Mr A once had. 
I have noted that Mr A experienced some customer service issues when dealing with 
Barclaycard  and I can see Barclaycard has accepted that it could have done better here. I 
can understand that it must have been frustrating for Mr A to have had to spend time trying 
to make a payment and to sort the matter out. Taking into account everything Ive seen, I 
agree with the Investigator that £150 is a fair amount of compensation  and in line with this 
services normal approach to a distress and inconvenience award. 
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr A, Barclaycard should pay £150 in total to Mr A for distress and 
inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above. I uphold Mr As complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as 
Barclaycard should put things right for Mr A by doing what Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman