DRN-3565232
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as S has complained that China Taiping Insurance (UK) Co Ltd 
unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after its business was 
impacted by Covid-19.
Mr P, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf through a representative. For 
ease, Ill refer to all submissions as being from S.
What happened
S trades as a takeaway food shop. It held a business interruption insurance policy with 
China Taiping. S claimed on its policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19. As an 
essential business it was entitled to remain open for takeaway business following the 
Government lockdown in March 2020. But S decided to close for five to six weeks because 
staff were reluctant to work for fear of contracting Covid-19 and the inability to maintain 
social distancing at the shop. Also, S said that customers did not want to leave home for 
takeaway food. 
China Taiping said the policy didnt cover Ss claim. It said Ss business could have 
remained open. The policy covered business interruption due to any organism likely to 
cause a Specified Disease at the premises but this did not extend to fear of an illness. It 
said it would consider any evidence of illness during the 2020 closure period, but S has not 
provided any such evidence. 
China Taiping said its policy did provide cover for a separate claim in January 2021, when 
there was an outbreak of Covid-19 at Ss premises.
Unhappy with China Taipings response, S brought its complaint about the 2020 claim to our 
service. S said that the policy did not actually state that the organism must be found at the 
premises, as distinct from other sections of the same policy clause which required 
occurrence of specified events at the premises. S said that the policy did not specify where 
the organism must come from. The likelihood of contracting Covid-19 was increasing every 
day in March 2020, which resulted in the national lockdown. 
S said its policy wording should cover the claim or, at the very least, the wording was 
ambiguous. To illustrate this point, S referred to the clarity of wording in a different, but 
similar policy, where China Taiping was also the insurer. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that 
S had decided to close because it was the best thing to do, rather than because of inability 
to use the premises. She said that China Taiping had fairly turned down the March 2020 
claim.
S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It referred to the policy wording and 
said that the policy used the word likely (to cause a Specified Illness at the Premises) as 
distinct from the murder or suicide and legionellosis clauses of the same policy section. 
S appreciated it was not required to close its business under the Governments Regulations, 
but the restrictions effectively forced it to close due to the significant likelihood of an 
employee or customer bringing Covid-19 to the premises. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt this decision is confined to Ss complaint about the 2020 
claim. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
China Taiping has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ss claim.
The relevant extension of the business interruption section of Ss policy said: 
(3) Murder Disease or Public Health Closure
Interruption of or interference with your business as insured by this Section shall be deemed 
to include
(a) murder or suicide at the premises;
(b) any occurrence of Legionellosis at the premises; 
(c) any organism that is likely to cause a Specified Illness at the premises
(d) closure, in whole or in part, of the premises by a competent public authority following     
defects in drains or other sanitary arrangements, or the discovery of pests of vermin 
at the premises;
The policy schedule included an endorsement which defined specified illness as:
Any human infections or human contagious disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS) or an AIDS related condition Severe Acquired 
Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and Avian Flu) an outbreak of which the local 
authority has stipulated shall be notified to them.
Covid-19 is a human contagious disease. So, for this extension to provide cover for Ss 
claim, the interruption of or interference with Ss business would need to include any 
organism that is likely to cause [Covid-19] at the premises. 
As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to 
demonstrate that they have suffered a loss which their policy covers.
S argues that the section 3 (c) covers its claim or, at the very least, the wording is 
ambiguous. In saying this, S has also referred to the policy wording in different policy which 
it says provides more clarity. But I can consider only the wording of Ss policy in this 
decision. I have carefully considered Ss arguments. I do not consider that the interruption of or interference with Ss business was due to any 
organism that is likely to cause [Covid-19] at the premises. I say this because S has not 
argued or provided any evidence to show that any organism likely to cause Covid-19 was at 
the premises at the time it decided to close. 
Rather, S closed its business because of concerns that its staff did not want to come into 
work because of the Covid-19 pandemic and because customers might also not want to 
leave home to buy takeaway food. I dont consider that the likelihood of employees or 
customers contracting Covid-19 is enough to show that any organism likely to cause 
Covid-19 was at the premises. 
S argues that the policy wording is, at best, ambiguous. S says the language in section 3 (a) 
and 3 (b) includes murder or suicide or the occurrence of legionellosis at the premises, 
whereas 3 (c) uses the word likely (to cause a Specified Illness at the premises). But 
I consider it clear that the word likely is used in specific reference to the organism. So, 
this means that S would still need to show the organism likely to cause Covid-19 was at the 
premises. The other parts of Section 3 require the events to happen at the premises, and 
I consider that 3 (c) does as well. 
I understand that S made the difficult decision to close its shop for the wellbeing of its 
employees and staff. But I dont think S has shown that an organism likely to cause Covid-19 
was at the premises at the time it decided to close its business, as required for the policy to 
respond. So, I think that China Taiping fairly turned down its claim.
I appreciate that my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to S but I dont 
consider that I can fairly require China Taiping to pay its claim.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman