DRN-4015296
The complaint
A company which I will refer to as D says that Santander UK Plc did not adequately help 
them when an international payment they made wasnt received by the payee. 
What happened
Briefly, in August 2022, D made an international payment of about $15,000 to their supplier, 
from their account with Santander. The supplier contacted D few days later not having 
received the payment. It then came to light that an incorrect account number was entered by 
D when making the payment (essentially a digit was missed out). D contacted Santander 
and that same day Santander sent a message via SWIFT to the intermediary bank 
instructing them to correct the account number and ensure that the funds credited the 
recipients account.
As the money wasnt yet credited to the supplier, Santander sent a further message on 
6 September 2022 to the intermediary bank advising them again of the correct account 
details. However, the supplier still didnt receive the payment. Instead, on 12 September, the 
intermediary bank messaged Santander that the recipients bank had returned the payment. 
The intermediary bank said that it would await further instructions from Santander. 
Santander sent another SWIFT message on 13 September, again confirming the correct 
account details and asked for the funds to be paid into that account. Despite this, on 21 
September 2022, the funds were returned to Santander by the intermediary bank. 
Santander resubmitted the payment on 23 September 2022 quoting the correct account 
details. The bank sent a chaser on 29 September to the intermediary bank. The intermediary 
bank twice advised Santander that they had sent a message to the recipient bank to credit 
the amount to the relevant account. However, on 3 November, the intermediary bank 
advised Santander that the funds were returned, and on 4 November Ds account was 
credited with the amount. 
In all this it is not clear why the recipient bank did not accept the payment and credit the 
suppliers account  other than initially when the account number wasnt entered correctly. 
D considers that Santander didnt do enough to help the funds credited to the supplier. Ds 
director says this caused considerable inconvenience as the companys staff had to spend a 
lot of time sorting this issue out. 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and concluded that the complaint could not 
be upheld. In short, they said that Santander did all it could and there is no evidence to show 
that the reason the payment failed to reach the supplier was due to any error or omission by 
Santander. 
D did not agree. In particular they were unhappy about the length of time this matter took. 
They said that this caused a considerable amount of inconvenience and put a huge strain on 
Ds relationship with their supplier. Separately, Ds director said that another international 
payment D made in July 2023, to a different supplier, went missing and all of this has been 
very stressful.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In essence, D made a payment in mid-August. It just didnt go through to the payee and was 
eventually returned in early November 2022. Even allowing for the initial error made by D, I 
appreciate that this was a long period of time, and it is clear to see that this caused 
considerable inconvenience and stress.
However, what I am determining here is whether the funds could not be paid to the supplier 
due to an error or omission by Santander or whether Santander caused avoidable delays in 
trying to resolve this issue. Taking into account what had happened, I am not able to 
conclude that the problem was caused by Santander. I also consider that the bank did all it 
reasonably could to help D. The problem appears have occurred at the recipient banks end, 
over which Santander had no control. So, I cant fairly uphold the complaint against 
Santander.
I am sorry to hear that D had a problem with another international payment recently. I can 
see that the investigator correctly advised D to take it up with Santander in the first instance. 
I hope that issue has since been resolved. If not, D could get in touch with the investigator.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman