DRN-1584042
The complaint
 Mr F complains that Close Brothers Limited (CBL) gave him wrong information about 
voluntarily terminating (VT) his Conditional Sale Agreement. This left him with an 
outstanding debt that he doesnt feel he should have.
 
What happened
 Mr F says he took out a Conditional Sale Agreement with CBL in  March 2018. He says his 
personal circumstances changed and he could no longer afford the loan. So, in 2019 he 
discussed his options with CBL. He says he was advised  he could sell the car privately and 
would then need to pay approximately £5,600 to settle the finance. Or he could let CBL take 
the car back and sell it.  And that if the car sold for more than £2407.44 there would be 
nothing more to pay.
Mr F says he chose to let CBL take back the car and sell it .He says as the car sold for more 
than £2407.44, he believed he had nothing more to pay. But CBL are pursuing him for an 
outstanding balance of £2183.05.
CBL said that Mr F had misunderstood the voluntary termination process. He needed to pay 
half of the total amount due under the finance agreement . Mr F also had to  pay for any 
charges over and above fair wear and tear  which in this case amounted to £980.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. He found that CBL had given Mr F misleading 
information . But felt ,given Mr Fs financial situation, had he been given the right information 
its likely he still would have gone ahead with ending his agreement. He recommended that 
CBL pay Mr F £150 for distress and inconvenience. And that this amount be used to reduce 
Mr Fs outstanding debt.
As neither party accepted or rejected our investigators view the complaint has come forward 
for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr F must have been very frustrated to be pursued by CBL for a debt he 
didnt believe he had. Ive seen the email  CBL sent to Mr F on 3 April 2019 to confirm the 
voluntary termination process. That stated that there was an outstanding debt of £2407.44 
needed to bring the account back up to the half way mark. The email went on to say 
depending on how much the car sold for at auction would determine any further liability.
I can understand why Mr F then believed he had nothing further to pay. The car sold for 
£3615.60 at auction so based on the email he received I think it was reasonable for him to 
understand that the outstanding balance of £2407.44 had been written off.
I have also  seen the customer notes of phone calls with Mr F in which voluntary termination 
is discussed. They  dont detail the process or how the finance is calculated other than a 
reference to a liability to the half way mark.
I think it might be helpful if I explain the two different ways Mr F could have ended his 
agreement.
When agreements are voluntarily terminated  goods are usually returned and the consumer 
is liable for half of the payments due under the finance agreement as well as any 
outstanding payments, such as in this case charge for damage to the car. This way of 
ending the agreement is explained in the contract Mr F signed.
The second option would be to voluntarily surrender (VS) the car .Unlike a VT , VS isnt a 
legal requirement for businesses to offer. In this case goods are returned for the finance 
provider to sell. The proceeds of the sale reduce the amount owing under the finance 
agreement. A rebate of interest may also be applied as a result of an early settlement. The 
consumer is then liable  to settle any outstanding finance.
It seems to me that although CBL talked of a VT of the agreement its email reads more as if 
it is dealing with a VS. 
Under the terms of the VT Mr F needed to hand the car back which he did, he then owed 
half of the total finance on the agreement. This was £4832.80 less his deposit, part 
exchange and the 11 payments of 31625.36 that he had made. This reduced his outstanding 
balance down to the £2407.56 that CBL originally said it owed. Mr F then also owed £980 for 
damage over and above fair wear and tear.
CBL seems to have revised the overall amount Mr F owes down to £2183.05 . Looking at the 
account statement it seems to have taken into account the sale price at auction , the 
payments Mr F had already made and a rebate of interest. I would agree with our 
investigators interpretation that CBL seems to have applied  elements of the VS process in 
determining Mr Fs outstanding balance.
Whichever process CBL agreed to there would always have been an outstanding debt for Mr 
F. But looking at all the information I have it seems to me that CBL has charged Mr F the 
least amount possible. 
Given Mr F has told us he had financial problems and couldnt afford to continue the finance 
payments I think its likely that, had he clearly understood there would be an outstanding 
liability, he would still have gone ahead and terminated his contract.
Mr F hasnt specified what redress he wanted from his complaint. But I dont think it would be 
fair for me to ask CBL to write off the outstanding debt if that is what he would like. Mr F 
thought he had agreed to VT his agreement and the contract he signed  makes it clear what 
this would involve. And it seems to me that CBL has not charged him what it could have 
done so under a VT but instead has applied a lower charge.
I do however agree with our investigators suggestion  that a reduction of £150 on the 
amount Mr F owes as compensation for the distress and inconvenience is reasonable.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement Close Brothers Limited should reduce the amount Mr F owes by 
£150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience to him.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman