DRN-3595818
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the way Fairmead Insurance Limited has handled a claim 
they made on their home insurance policy.
Mrs J has primarily dealt with things, so for ease Ill refer to her only.
Reference to Fairmead includes anything said or done by its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
Mrs J got in touch with Fairmead after a flood damaged her home in December 2020. 
She appointed a loss assessor Ill refer to as O.
In February, affected areas were stripped out and drying began. By the end of March, 
the home was declared dry. O arranged and carried out repairs in June and July.
In August, Mrs J said the repairs were failing because areas of damp remained. She 
got in touch with O and Fairmead but no further repairs were carried out. She asked 
for her home to be fully dried and certified as such. Mrs J was also concerned about 
the amount Fairmead had paid as a disturbance allowance (DA). She thought it had 
agreed to pay £1,000 a month but it was only offering to pay £1,000 in total.
Fairmead said O had appointed contractors to carry out all the work  and it was Os 
contractor that had certified the property dry. Because of that, Fairmead didnt think it 
was responsible for any problems with the drying and/or repairs. It accepted it had 
initially offered £1,000 a month as a DA based on the way O had described the 
extent of the flood damage. But once Fairmead had inspected the damage, it thought 
£1,000 in total was sufficient  and it had told O this.
Mrs J remained unhappy with the way her claim had been handled and referred her 
complaint to this Service. Our investigator thought Fairmead had acted reasonably in 
relation to the damp and limiting the DA. But he thought the change of the DA should 
have been made clearer and Mrs J had suffered a loss of expectation as a result. He 
suggested Fairmead pay £300 compensation for that.
Neither party agreed. Fairmead thought any communication problem had been 
caused by O. Mrs J reiterated her concerns and said Fairmead hadnt investigated 
the cause of damp as thoroughly as it should have done. As an agreement couldnt 
be reached, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is about Fairmead and any acts or omissions its responsible for as an insurer. 
Whilst I will comment on O as they had a significant role in the claim, this complaint isnt 
about them. So I wont be able to make any findings about any acts or omissions they were 
responsible for in their role representing Mrs J and assisting her with her claim.
Theres no dispute Fairmead accepted the claim for flood damage was covered by the policy 
and has made payments to settle it. This complaint is about the way the claim was handled 
in relation to two main points: the drying and the DA. These are the two issues Ill focus on.
Drying
Its accepted a damp problem remains at Mrs Js property. Shes lived there for around thirty 
years and says it hasnt suffered from damp prior to the flood. So she thinks the damp has 
been caused by the flood  and it should be put right as part of the claim.
Fairmead doesnt think its responsible for doing this. It says the damp is related to problems 
which existed prior to the flood  or the work carried out by O.
The damp could be caused by the flood, pre-existing damp problems, or the work carried out 
by O  or a combination. But I would only find Fairmead responsible for any damp caused 
directly by the flood and not as a result of the latter two causes. Pre-existing damp problems 
arent covered by the policy. And O is responsible for the work it arranged  not Fairmead.
Evidence about the cause of the current problem is limited.
O took advice from E, a company describing itself as a damage management specialist. E 
didnt think Fairmead had carried out enough investigations to establish the damp problem 
was pre-existing. E recommended further investigation, including a detailed survey and 
moisture assessment to determine the current condition of the property with regards to 
incident-related conditions and non-incident-related conditions. I understand E hasnt carried 
out any testing or surveys of its own or reached any findings about the cause of the on-going 
damp problem  and whether that relates to the flood or otherwise.
The position of Os drying contractor is similar. After the damp returned, it found some of the 
walls were retaining excessive moisture. It said it was a possibility that the floodwater may 
have pooled underneath the floor, but more investigation would be needed to confirm.
So whilst the possibility the current problem may be related to the flood has been raised, all 
thats been suggested is further investigation  no evidence has been provided to show the 
flood is the cause of the current problem. That means theres no evidence to show theres 
more damage Fairmead is responsible for.
I understand Mrs J thinks Fairmead should have carried out more investigations initially. Im 
mindful that whilst it sent contractors to look into the damp, it didnt carry out the work and 
nor did it dictate to O what work must be done. So Im not persuaded Fairmead was 
responsible for establishing the extent of the damp or the appropriate repairs.
O chose to appoint its own contractors to carry out the work and Fairmead agreed to pay for 
that to be done. So Fairmead wasnt in control of the work.
O started work in February. In March it said the flooring was starting to lift during drying and 
it had concerns about the condition of the sub-floor underneath. It sought agreement from 
Fairmead to pay for a section of the floor to be lifted and inspected. Fairmead agreed.Later, O provided a completion report from its contractor. Whilst the report said it wasnt a 
guarantee or certificate, it did say moisture readings had been taken and were within an 
appropriate range. It went on to say moisture on and in building materials will not support 
active microbial growth or cause secondary damage to surrounding materials and said the 
building materials would return to normal without suffering further damage.
I think it was reasonable for Fairmead to accept what it was being told. If the inspection of 
the sub-floor had revealed anything concerning, Fairmead could reasonably have expected 
to have been told about it or for that to have been reflected in the drying contractors report. I 
havent seen anything to suggest it was told of a problem at that time.
Fairmead wasnt responsible for the work and theres no evidence to show the current 
problem relates to the flood. So I dont think it would be fair to make Fairmead responsible 
for investigating why the work hasnt lasted and damage remains.
Disturbance allowance (DA)
O initially told Fairmead Mrs Js home was flooded which has caused considerable damage, 
alternative accommodation is required as a matter of urgency. On the strength of that 
information, Fairmead offered to arrange emergency alternative accommodation for a period 
of six months. I understand suitable options nearby were limited, so Fairmead suggested 
paying a DA of £1,000 per month for Mrs J to remain in the house.
After Fairmead inspected the damage, it said there was no need for alternative 
accommodation and reiterated the monthly £1,000 offer. Fairmead says it discussed this 
with O and later left a voicemail for it to confirm the offer was limited to £1,000 in total to 
recognise the difficulty to Mrs J of living in the house during the drying phase.
As the repairs were reaching a conclusion, O asked Fairmead to pay £6,000 DA in line with 
its earlier offer. Fairmead said its latest offer had been £1,000 in total, rather than per month.
Mrs J said she had been living in temporary accommodation at her own expense since May 
as a result of the time it had taken to progress the claim and as she understood Fairmead 
would be paying £1,000 per month.
Ive thought about the damage and conditions Mrs J was faced with. I understand there was 
water damage to most rooms downstairs, although not to a significant degree. Some flooring 
surfaces would need to be taken up but most would remain in place. The bathroom, kitchen, 
lounge and bedrooms upstairs all remained accessible. Given the extent of damage, Im 
satisfied it was reasonable for Fairmead not to offer alternative accommodation.
The policy doesnt include a DA, so there arent any terms to set out what its for and when it 
should apply. But generally, the purpose of a DA is to cover increased costs of living in a 
property where, for example, access to usual cooking or washing facilities isnt available. It 
can also be offered as a form of compensation for the inconvenience of living at home in 
circumstances which are more challenging than usual  but not necessarily enough to make 
it uninhabitable and require alternative accommodation.
Fairmead recognised a DA was appropriate in Mrs Js circumstances. Its offered £1,000 for 
this and overall, Im persuaded thats reasonable to account for the inconvenience of living at 
home for the period of time the claim should have taken.
I know Mrs J moved out later in the claim. This seems to be a result of the time it was taking 
as well as the difficulty of living there. Im mindful that Fairmead wasnt in control of the claim 
timescale  O was acting for Mrs J and it insisted on using its own contractors for the work. Fairmead couldnt control Os contractors, their start dates or their pace of work. But Ive 
seen that Fairmead regularly chased O and, particularly in the early stages, urged stripping 
out and drying to begin as soon as possible. So I think Fairmead did all it reasonably could 
to help progress the claim promptly. As a result, I dont think it would be fair to ask Fairmead 
to compensate Mrs J for the time the claim took  including the costs of temporary 
accommodation Mrs J incurred later in the claim.
The evidence suggests Fairmead may have told O it had changed its offer to £1,000 in total 
but its not clear that it did. I havent seen anything in writing to O to confirm that. Whilst 
Fairmead was entitled to change its offer, I would have expected that to have been clearly 
communicated to O. It would then have been for O to clearly communicate to Mrs J about it. 
As its not clear Fairmead told O about the change, Im not satisfied its treated Mrs J fairly.
Im satisfied the change has caused Mrs J avoidable distress as she understood the monthly 
offer remained in place for most of the claim. To have found out otherwise would have been 
distressing. I think £300 compensation is proportionate and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay £300 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman