DRN-3962179
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Homeserve Membership Limited hasnt honoured an agreement it 
made to fix the price of his agreement for future years. 
Homeserve is the administrator and responsible for applying discounts to the premium price. 
What happened
Mr M held a Homeserve Membership for several years. In 2009 he said he switched to 
landlord cover under his membership and at renewal each year he would call Homeserve 
and the renewal premium offered would be reduced for the following year. 
After several years of this pattern, in 2018 Mr M asked Homeserve to fix the premium he 
paid for future years, which Homeserve told him it would do. 
However, Homeserve later said it had made this agreement in error. And so it said it 
wouldnt continue to fix the price for future years. Homeserve told Mr M it would offer 
renewal until November 2023.
Mr M complained to Homeserve. It apologised to him for the error it made. But it didnt agree 
to fix the price for future years. 
Mr M remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. He wants Homeserve to 
maintain the premium at £195 a year for future years and withdraw the refusal to renew his 
membership. Mr M wanted Homeserve to pay him £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused. 
Our Investigator thought Homeserve had done enough to resolve the complaint. 
Mr M didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Homeserve confirmed to Mr M by phone and in writing that it would 
fix the price at £195 a year for future years. Homeserve says the error it made was failing to 
explain the discount was for a finite period of time. 
At renewal in November 2022, Homeserve wrote to Mr M to say it could no longer support 
the offer it made in 2018. It said it would honour the price fixed at £195 until November 2023. 
So Mr M had the benefit of paying the same price since 2015.  
Homeserve said it should have made it clear that the offer was timebound. 
Homeserve said it wouldnt offer renewal in November 2023 and that it could make this 
decision in line with the policy terms. 
I understand Mr Ms strength of feeling on the issue and Ive read his detailed statement 
dated 6 February 2023. But I cant say that Homeserves business decision to withdraw the 
offer of a discount for the lifetime of the policy is unreasonable. I think its explanation - that it 
cannot for economic reasons continue to offer such a heavily discounted rate for the lifetime 
of the policy - is a reasonable one. And I think its given Mr M enough time with the benefit of 
a further year from November 2022 at the discounted rate to shop around in time for renewal 
in November 2023. 
Mr Ms policy with Homeserve says:
What happens at the end of my policy?
HomeServe will contact you in writing before your policy expires to arrange the 
renewal of your policy and tell you the renewal premium. Your claims history will be 
considered when reviewing your renewal premium offer. Adjustments may also be 
made to reflect the cost of providing the policy and any change in the rate of tax 
applicable to it. We reserve the right to refuse renewal of any individual policy and we 
will inform you before your policy expires if we choose to do so.
A business is entitled to make a commercial decision whether to offer renewal terms. We 
cannot interfere with that decision. 
I realise Mr M will be very disappointed with my decision. But I think Homeserve 
communicated clearly that it did something wrong in stating it could fix the price indefinitely. 
It has given Mr M a further year at the discounted rate and sufficient time to make alternative 
arrangements before November 2023 when the policy expires. And it has explained its 
decision as set out under the policy in relation to offering a policy at renewal. 
In a letter to this service dated 21 December 2022, Homeserve said; 
We have confirmed that this price will be applied to the current policy period, 
covering until 12 November 2023. From the renewal onwards the policy will then be 
charged at the standard rate for this insurance, should Mr M choose to keep this 
cover.
So it seems Homeserve is willing to offer cover at renewal to Mr M, but not at a discounted 
rate. It remains a business decision for Homeserve - and a choice for Mr M - if cover is 
offered and whether he chooses to accept it when the renewal approaches in November 
2023. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman