DRN-4179148
The complaint
Ms D complains about how West Bay Insurance plc trading as Zenith (West Bay) handled 
a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms D had a motor insurance policy with West Bay covering her car. In August 2022 she was 
involved in a collision and reported a claim to her broker.
Her claim was initially handled on her behalf by a third-party accident management company 
(who Ill refer to as T), which told her that the car would probably be beyond economical 
repair and would be written-off.
Ms D thought her car was repairable, and her claim was passed back to West Bay.
West Bay had information to show that the car would be a write-off, so it asked Ms D to 
provide photos and an estimate for repair from her chosen garage. West Bay received the 
photos but not the estimate, so it closed the claim.
Ms D was unhappy and complained. West Bay didnt uphold her complaint. It didnt think it 
had done anything wrong, and it said it would deal with her claim if Ms D wanted to continue.
Ms D remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt uphold it. He said he thought West Bay had handled 
the claim fairly. 
Ms D didnt agree, and asked that her complaint was reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has 
been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D has raised a number of different points about the claims process with West Bay, with T 
and the company whose branding is on the policy she purchased.
Its important that I say that Im only able to deal with her complaint about West Bay, which is 
the insurer of her policy and therefore the organisation who are responsible for the handling 
of her claim, and that she has raised with it and received its final response. 
I understand Ms Ds frustration, especially with the branding aspect that I mention above, so 
I need to confirm to her that I cant that into consideration.
I can appreciate that Ms D finds the contractual and business relationships complex between 
all of the companies shes dealt with following the collision, but I can assure her that this 
complaint is correctly set up against West Bay as the insurer of her insurance policy.
Ive reviewed Ms Ds experience during the claim she made from West Bay.
The collision happened on 4 August and she notified West Bay on 8 August on a notification-
only basis as she thought her claim was non-fault and was being handled by T working on 
her behalf. West Bay told Ms D she was able to claim under her own policy and that she 
may be able to retain her vehicle if it was written-off.
During this time, Ms D was told her car would cost about £7,000 to repair by T
On 12 August, Ms D told West Bay she thought her car was repairable and West Bay asked 
her for photos and a repair estimate. It received the photos by 18 August. It also chased Ms 
D for the estimate four times either by phone or letter. Then it closed her claim because it 
hadnt received a repair estimate. 
Ive thought about Ms Ds claims journey with West Bay. I can see from the evidence I have 
that Ms D was perplexed by her early interactions with her broker and T. And I can see why, 
as there are a number of organisations involved in her policy and the whole claims process.
But importantly I cant say this confusion was West Bays fault as many of the conversations 
Ms D was having were with other companies. Ms D had told West Bay about the damage, 
but also told it that she wanted to use T, which would mean West Bay didnt need to get 
involved with the claim any further.
West Bay then got re-involved with the claim when Ms D asked for it to repair her car. 
I think West Bay then tried to deal with Ms Ds claim in a reasonable way. It was able to 
obtain photos of the car and damage, which I can see were obtained over a short period of 
time. Then it chased Ms D for a repair estimate that ultimately didnt arrive. So I cant say 
West Bay was at fault as it was abiding by her choice of repairer and chasing up missing 
information it reasonably needed to handle her claim.
Ms D has provided details of these estimates, and their dates, to this service. But I cant see 
that West Bay received them, which is why it continued to chase up Ms D.
T also told Ms D a steering geometry check was needed due to the general area of 
damage meaning that the cars suspension might be affected. I can see from the file that Ms 
D paid for this check to happen at a cost of £102.
Ms D asked that West Bay pay this invoice. I couldnt see that West Bay dealt with this in its 
final response to Ms D, so I asked it whether it would pay. West Bay responded that it 
wouldnt pay this invoice as Ms D had the job done because of information shed received 
from T, and before West Bay had been able to examine her car.
I looked into West Bays policy wording and I can see this section:
The insurer will only be liable for the repair costs at a non-recommended repairer if 
the insurer has agreed that the costs are reasonable and the insurer has issued an 
authorisation to the repairer.
I cant see that the cost was authorised by West Bay, so Im not able to say it has acted 
unfairly in refusing to pay the invoice.
Ive also thought carefully about Ms Ds claims journey and her interactions with West Bay. 
She told it about the claim on 8 August, then asked it to repair her car on 12 August. She 
provided photos, but not the estimate it needed, and it chased her four times for this before it closed its file on the claim. 
So I dont think West Bay has acted unreasonably in how it handled Ms Ds claim.
From the information I have, I can see West Bay then re-opened Ms Ds claim, and its my 
understanding that the repairs have now been completed. 
In later correspondence, Ms D has also said she was forced to pay £400 excess when she 
collected her car from being repaired. Ive looked at her policy documents for 2021-22 and I 
can clearly see that the Schedule of Insurance page 9 states there is a Voluntary excess of 
£250 and a compulsory excess of £150.I hope this clarifies matters for Ms D. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman