DRN-2743252
The complaint
Mr A complains on behalf of B, a business hes a director of, that National Westminster Bank 
Plc, closed Bs account without notice and withheld his funds. Hed like Bs funds returned 
and compensation for the impact on B.   
What happened
Mr A is a director of B. B had two accounts with NatWest. 
On the 4 November 2019 Bs access to their two accounts was restricted and on the 
6 November 2019 NatWest sent a letter to B advising the business that their accounts would 
be closed with 14 days notice. NatWest also restricted Bs access to the funds in the two 
accounts.  
Mr A complained to NatWest about their decision to close Bs accounts  and the 
withholding of their funds. NatWest didnt uphold Bs complaint. They explained theyd acted 
within the terms and conditions of the account when terminating it with 14 days notice. And 
they werent able to release the funds, but should be able to advise B in 60 days.
Mr A complained to our service about NatWests actions. He explained that NatWests 
closing of Bs accounts and withholding of their funds was having a significant impact on 
their running of the business. Mr A explained that B had suffered reputational damage and 
lost their preferential relationship with their supplier, Ill call C. In total NatWest withheld just 
over £9,500 and almost 2,000 euros.  
On the 16 January 2020 NatWest released some of Bs funds, but held on the 2,000 euros. 
And on the 10 September 2020 NatWest released the remainder of Bs funds. The bank 
accepted they should have released the remaining funds sooner.  
One of our investigators looked into Bs complaint  and they thought NatWest needed to do 
more to put things right. In summary they thought that NatWest acted unfairly in closing As 
account without sufficient notice, and withholding their funds. And our investigator felt that 
the withholding of Bs funds had a significant impact on its reputation and ability to trade. So, 
they recommended that NatWest:
Pay £3,045.08 to cover lost revenue during November and December 2019
8% interest on 1,945.77 euros from the date of restriction to the date of release
Pay £1,000 for reputational damage caused. 
NatWest accepted our investigators opinion but A didnt. So the complaint was passed to 
me for a decision. 
On reviewing Bs complaint I came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. And I 
shared my thoughts with both NatWest and Mr A. I thought that NatWest hadnt acted fairly 
in closing Bs account or failing to release his funds. I also thought that the banks actions 
had caused B significant reputational damage and impacted on their trading ability. I 
recommended that NatWest pay: 
£4,698 for loss of profit incurred by the business
£2,500 for the damage to Bs reputation
8% interest on 1,945.77 euros from the date of restriction to the date of release
8% interest on £9,595.38 from the date of restriction to the date of release
NatWest accepted my recommendation but B didnt. In response they said:
Theres no explanation for NatWests actions other than discrimination.
Theyd started to invest in their new operations relating to C. 
Total losses from lack of trade, and loss of returns from investments in C  over 
£120,000
They suffered significant inconvenience in trying to repair and save their brand and 
business  and Mr A believes that £33,000 is a more appropriate figure for 
reputational damage. 
They dont agree that 8% on the withheld funds are significant enough returns. The 
funds were needed to invest in a significant expansion. 
As Mr A, on behalf of B, didnt agree. Ive reconsidered my conclusions. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest have accepted that they acted unfairly in restricting access to Bs business current 
account and euro account in November 2019, and failing to release Bs funds until January 
and September 2020. So, I wont be considering this. However, whats in dispute is the level 
of compensation for financial loss, inconvenience and reputational damage caused to B. 
Financial Loss:
 
As I previously explained to both NatWest and B  this is a challenging case to assess a fair 
award of financial loss for B. I say this because of the varied revenue B has had over the 
previous years plus the recent changes in Bs business model including a new main supplier 
 C  and the opening of a shop in late 2019. However, I'm satisfied that NatWest's actions 
had a significant impact on Bs ability to trade effectively during the Christmas period of 
2019. And I'm satisfied this was mainly due to the restriction in access to almost £12,000 
worth of funds - which meant B werent able to pay invoices and therefore obtain 
merchandise. 
 
I reviewed all of the evidence Bs supplied which includes a breakdown of actual and 
potential sales across all means in late 2019, sales across previous years and other 
expenses incurred in attempting to grow the business. I'm also satisfied that it's clear in both 
2016 and 2017 B had an uplift in sales over the Christmas period - I've calculated that B made an average of 41% of their annual sales during November and December in 2017 and 
2018. Looking at the revenue B had in 2019 - including November and December 2019 -
 based on the business completing 41% of their sales in November and December I'd 
estimate a total loss of almost £46,980. I say this because based on 41% sales being taken 
in November and December 2019, B would have made almost £62,000 worth of sales. 
When in fact they only made just over £14,800  meaning a loss of almost £46,980.  
 
However, I also need to take into account both the fluctuation in revenue B had throughout 
2016 to 2018 including December 2018 when there were no sales and the fact the 41% of 
sales relates to revenue rather than profit. I also need to consider that the vast majority of 
Bs losses relate to the inability to sell merchandise they later received in January 2020. 
However, I appreciate these items were received in January 2020 when sales would have 
been significantly reduced. 
 
The figures provided by B don't provide a full breakdown of their accounts - including the 
profit made. Mr A argues that with their new merchandise from C, B would have made a 
profit of over 45%. Mr A explains that the profit margin was so high as B were direct 
representatives of the product and therefore were in receipt of preferential terms and 
conditions. 
I understand Mr As argument here  but without historical data to support his position of an 
exceptionally high profit margin, Im unable to conclude this is more likely than not. 
Data from the Office for National Statistics, the recognised national statistics provider in the 
UK, in the third quarter of 2019 shows that 9.3% was the average profit margin for a private 
non-financial business. Looking at this figure, I think its more likely than not Bs profit margin 
would have been 10% of their revenue for this period. 10% of the estimated revenue of 
£46,980 works out as £4,698.
Mr A also argues that Bs relationship with C only commenced in July 2019 and therefore 
profits would have been significantly higher between November 2019 and January 2020 in 
comparison to previous years, because of the new brand C, a new shop and an online 
website. I understand that B also want to be compensated for loss of sales due to customers 
not being directed to their website - however, as this was a new website it's not possible for 
me to accurately estimate the potential loss. And Im satisfied, by using the sales throughout 
2019 in my estimated profit calculation, Ive taken into account the increase in sales B had 
after securing the brand C in July 2019. 
 
Inconvenience and reputational damage:
 
I've moved on to consider the inconvenience caused to B and the reputational damage to 
the company by NatWest's actions. B have informed our service that C was their only 
supplier. And Im satisfied this was likely the case. Ive seen evidence from B that C sent 
payment reminders on a number of occasions throughout November and December 2019, 
which ultimately led to C terminating their arrangement with B. And Im satisfied it's clear that 
the agreement was only terminated because of the missed payments. Ive also seen 
evidence that B were unable to pay other businesses they had a professional relationship 
with on time  including their storage facility provider. And I think this also caused B 
reputational damage. 
In my initial outcome to both B and NatWest I explained how I thought B were caused 
inconvenience by regularly chasing NatWest to release their funds. Mr As highlighted that 
the inconvenience was much more significant than just chasing NatWest. And also involved 
Mr A attempting to restore Bs reputation and ensure that B was operational. I accept Mr As argument here. And Im satisfied its highly likely that B was caused inconvenience because 
of the directors spending time trying to resolve the issues with NatWest and Bs suppliers. 
However, this doesnt lead me to conclude that the compensation NatWest should pay is 
higher than I previous proposed.  
 
I think it's clear that B have suffered significant reputational damage and inconvenience 
because of NatWest's actions. And I think fair compensation for this is £2,500. 
 
Interest:
 
Mr A responded to my initial thoughts regarding 8% interest on both funds released in 
January 2020 and September 2020 with some additional points. Mr A highlighted that the 
funds held by NatWest were designed to be used for expansion of the brand. I accept that 
this was likely to be the case considering the funds were designed to be used to pay for 
goods from C that B had committed to. However, Im not seen anything to indicate 8% isnt 
sufficient considering B were able to use the funds for brand expansion when they were 
released in January 2020. I appreciate that by this point B had already suffered significant 
reputational damage  but Ive already considered this above, and interest at a rate of 8% 
isnt designed to compensate for this. Instead B were unable to use the funds for business 
growth during the time they were withheld, and I think a rate of 8% interest fairly 
compensates them for this lost opportunity. 
Discrimination:
As Ive explained above NatWest has accepted that it acted unfairly in closing Bs accounts 
without notice and withholding Bs funds. The bank says theyve provided poor customer 
service, and are prepared to offer compensation for this. Mr A, on behalf of B, doesnt see it 
that way. He believes that what NatWest has done goes beyond poor customer service. 
Theyve felt discriminated against. I can understand why Mr A feels this way, and I do think 
NatWest hasnt quite grasped how its actions have made Mr A feel.  And Ive explained 
above what I think NatWest should do to put things right. I appreciate that Mr A sees himself 
as one of the injured parties in this complaint  however hes the representative of B, and not 
an eligible complainant in his own right. Therefore I cant consider how hes directly been 
impacted by NatWests actions  only how their actions impacted on B. 
Putting things right
Overall, Im satisfied that NatWest should compensate B for the closure of their account 
without sufficient notice and the unfair withholding of Bs funds. I think the compensation 
should cover loss of profit, damage to reputation and 8% interest when the payments were 
released.  
My final decision
My final decision is I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to pay B:
£4,698 for loss of profit incurred by B.
£2,500 for the damage to Bs reputation.
8% interest on 1,945.77 euros from the date of restriction to the date of release.
8% interest on £9,595.38 from the date of restriction to the date of release.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman