DRN-4466614
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money wont refund money she
says she lost to a scam.
In making this complaint Mrs B is represented by a third-party, but for the ease of reading Ill
refer to Mrs B throughout this decision
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I have only
summarised the background here.
In 2018, Mrs B was contacted by a third-party about an investment opportunity offered by a
company Ill call W. She subsequently invested £10,000 in December 2018 using funds she
held in a Virgin Money Individual Savings Account (ISA).
Mrs B received two interest payments in 2019 but no further interest payments were
received. Mrs B complained to Virgin Money in October 2022 as she believed she had been
scammed. She said Virgin Money should have intervened when she made the payment as it
was large payment and out of character with her normal account usage.
Virgin Money looked into the matter but didnt uphold the complaint. It said that when Mrs B
made her payment, W was a genuine company but had later gone into administration.
Mrs B didnt agree and referred the complaint to this service. One of our investigators looked
into it. He accepted that Mrs Bs payment was unusual based on her normal account activity.
But he said - even if Virgin Money had intervened, he didnt think it would have prevented
Mrs B from making the payment based on the information available about W at the time.
Mrs B replied in detail as she didnt agree with the outcome. The investigator considered
what Mrs B had said but he didnt think this altered the outcome he had reached. He said
that when Mrs B made the payment there were no significant warnings that W wasnt a
genuine investment company. He maintained that even if Virgin Money had intervened,
Mrs B would still have made the payment.
As agreement wasnt reached, Mrs B asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an
ombudsman. The complaint was passed to me to decide, and I issued a provisional 
decision.
What I said in my provisional decision dated 20 October 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not intending to 
uphold this complaint. I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mrs B. But I dont find 
that Virgin Money has acted unfairly or unreasonably. Ill explain why.
The starting position in law is that Mrs B is responsible for transactions shes carried out
herself. And Mrs B hasnt disputed authorising the ISA transfer. Rather, she says
Virgin Money should have intervened before allowing the transfer to be processed given it
was unusual activity for her account.
And taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I
consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I accept that Virgin Money should,
fairly and reasonably, have been on the lookout for out of character and unusual
transactions, as well as other indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm
from fraud.
So, the starting point for me is to consider whether Mrs Bs ISA transfer instruction was
particularly unusual or uncharacteristic, when looking at normal payments on her account.
Our investigator said he thought Mrs Bs payment was unusual based on her normal account
activity. But the account Mrs B held was an ISA, so I wouldnt expect to see the same level 
of transactions on this type of account as you might expect on a current account (for 
example). And Mrs B was transferring her ISA to a new provider, and I dont consider it 
unusual for ISA investors to move part or all of their ISA around to benefit from better 
interest rates.
And in this case, it wasnt Virgin Moneys role to give investment advice and it had no reason
to be concerned about the transfer of the ISA, given there doesnt seem to be any concerns
about W at that time. Overall, I dont find that Mrs Bs payment instruction was unusual to the
extent that Virgin Money was required to intervene before processing the transfer.
Ive thought about whether Virgin Money had the opportunity to recover the funds for Mrs B.
But I think its unlikely any attempts to recover the money would have been successful given
the time that has elapsed since the payment was made and when Mrs B raised her
complaint with Virgin Money  particularly as W went into liquidation in the interim period.
So, Im not persuaded that Virgin Money did anything wrong when it didnt attempt to recover
the funds.
In summary, I have a great deal of sympathy with Mrs B, she has lost a considerable amount
of money. But it would only be fair for me to direct Virgin Money to refund her loss if I thought
it was responsible  and I dont find this to be the case. As such, I cannot fairly and
reasonably hold Virgin Money liable in these circumstances. It follows that I dont intend to
tell Virgin Money to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited both parties to provide any further comments or evidence they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision. But neither party has provided further comments 
or evidence. So, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision as set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons given above (and in my provisional decision), I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2023.
 Sandra Greene
Ombudsman