DRN-3358947
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs F complain Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly charged an early 
repayment charge when they redeemed their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr B and Mrs F says they held a mortgage account with Nationwide and contrary to what 
they were previously told over the telephone, they were charged an early repayment charge 
(ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage, following their house sale in late November 
2020. 
Mr B and Mrs F says they held several conversations with Nationwides advisors and were 
led to understand that no ERCs would be payable as they were close to the end of their 
mortgage interest rate product ending in December 2020. Mr B and Mrs F says during the 
telephone calls with Nationwide they had clarified this point, and no one told them this wasnt 
the case for their mortgage product. 
Mr B and Mrs F says when they complained to Nationwide it wasnt able to provide copies of 
the telephone calls where the ERC was discussed, and its complaints process isnt fit for 
purpose. Mr B and Mrs F feel that Nationwide have withheld the telephone recordings and 
are unhappy that they now refuse to refund the ERC of £744.13. 
Nationwide says it has sent Mr B and Mrs F copies of what call recordings it has from 
September 2020 to November 2020, but from its own records there is nothing to suggest any 
of its staff told Mr B and Mrs F it would not charge the ERC due, when the mortgage was 
repaid early. Nationwide says Mr B and Mrs F were only told that if the mortgage was on a 
standard variable rate no ERC would be due- but that wasnt the case here. 
Nationwide says it is clear in the mortgage agreement that the ERC is payable, and it may 
only be waived on porting it, subject to a new mortgage application. 
 Mr B and Mrs F werent happy with Nationwides response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator explained he couldnt look at the complaint handling process of Nationwide as 
that wasnt part of this services remit. The investigator also mentioned he wouldnt be 
commenting on the phone calls Mr B and Mrs F had been sent as these didnt cover the 
points raised in the complaint concerning the waiving of the ERC. The investigator says he 
could only comment on the information available to him and from what he had seen, 
Nationwide were entitled to charge the ERC, even though it was close to the end of the 
mortgage product term. The investigator pointed out that without any other evidence to 
suggest Mr B and Mrs F had been told the ERC wouldnt be payable, he couldnt ask 
Nationwide to refund it. 
Mr B and Mrs F didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Mr B and Mrs F to be charged an ERC 
when they believed it wouldnt be. 
As the investigator has explained, its not the role of this service to scrutinise Nationwides 
complaints process or to tell it how it should deal with complaints more widely. I know Mr B 
and Mrs F are unhappy with that  but my role is to look at whats fair and reasonable in the 
individual circumstances of a complaint. So here, I will consider if Nationwide misled Mr B 
and Mrs F into believing the ERC wouldnt be charged, so close to the end of their mortgage 
interest rate product term.
Mr Bs and Mrs Fs complaint centres around the fact they were told by Nationwides staff 
during certain telephone calls, they wouldnt have to pay the ERC, given they were so close 
to the end of their mortgage interest rate product. Unfortunately here, the calls that Mrs F 
refers to cannot be located by Nationwide nor is she able to provide any firm dates when 
these calls were made. 
Like the investigator I am left to consider the information we do have available and what in 
all likelihood took place. From what I have seen initially, Mr B and Mrs F were looking to 
move into another property and port their mortgage to that property. I can see that 
Nationwide at that time agreed the mortgage product could be ported subject to a new 
mortgage application and in which case the ERC wouldnt be payable. 
It has been explained that the purchase property fell through, but Mr B and Mrs F still went 
ahead with sale of their home which completed in late November 2020 at which time they 
fully redeemed their mortgage with Nationwide. This meant of course they werent now 
porting the mortgage product, so the ERC became payable. I cant see any evidence to 
suggest any other discussions were held, in which Nationwide told Mrs F the ERC would 
now be waived, given she was close to the mortgage interest rate product term end.
What is clear is the mortgage offer under section 10, does make clear the ERC is payable up 
until the 31 December 2020 and on balance, although Mrs F feels strongly about what she 
was told, I cant see why an advisor would suggest an ERC isnt payable when it clearly says 
it is in their own mortgage offer terms and conditions. I do understand it would be frustrating 
for Mr B and Mrs F that the ERC was still  payable, given how close it was to the mortgage 
interest rate product coming to an end, but that isnt something I can tell Nationwide it must 
refund.  
While Mr B and Mrs F will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Nationwide here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman