DRN-4307707
The complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund £63,000 he lost to two 
investment scams between April and July 2020.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. In brief summary, Mr W fell victim to an investment scam in April 2020 after 
seeing an online advert for an investment broker (S). He was encouraged to invest and 
between 17 April 2020 and 19 May 2020, he made payments totalling £38,000 from his 
HSBC account to his Coinbase wallet, where his funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers wallet. 
During this time, Mr W was informed of another investment by a friend who was making 
good returns. Due to the success Mr W thought hed had investing through S, Mr W decided 
to also invest with another company (R), as he wanted to diversify his portfolio. This too 
was unfortunately a scam investment, and between 26 June 2020 and 3 July 2020, he made 
payments totalling £25,000. Again, these payments were made from his HSBC account to 
his Coinbase wallet, where the funds were sent on to the scammer.  
Mr W realised he had been scammed by both companies when he was unable to withdraw 
the profits hed made. Mr W reported the scam to HSBC, but it refused to refund the money 
hed lost as it said hed authorised the payments. Unhappy with this, he referred the matter 
to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He didnt think any of the payments would 
have appeared overly unusual in light of Mr Ws previous spending. He also noted that Mr W 
had funded part of the fraudulent investment with loans taken out with different banks, 
including HSBC. Mr W initially said hed told the bank the reason for the loans was to clear 
some short-term debt and make further investments. However, HSBC explained that this 
was not true, as Mr W said the reason hed given for the borrowing was to fund home 
improvements; he did not specify that it was to fund an investment. 
As a result, the investigator didnt think the bank wouldve uncovered the scam even if it had 
intervened, as he thought it was likely Mr W wouldve misled the bank, as he had done so 
with the loan application. Mr W disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to 
determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator and have decided 
not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mr W authorised the disputed payments he made to his Coinbase 
wallet from his HSBC account (where his funds were subsequently transferred on to the 
scammers from his crypto wallet). The payments were requested using his legitimate 
security credentials provided by HSBC, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether HSBC should have done more to prevent Mr W from 
falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably 
have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, 
if it was particularly out of character. 
However, Im not persuaded any of the payments ought reasonably to have triggered an 
intervention from HSBC. The largest payment Mr W made as part of the scam was for 
£8,000, by which point Coinbase had become an established payee on the account. I can 
also see hed made previous legitimate faster payments from his account for £3,500 on 30 
August 2019 and had also made a cheque payment for £8,500 on 6 August 2019. So, I dont 
think any of the smaller earlier payments would have appeared unusual either. The 
payments were all spaced out as well, with no two payments being made on the same day. 
As a result, Im not persuaded any of the payments he made as part of either scam were 
significantly unusual enough to have warranted further questioning from HSBC. 
Even if HSBC should have questioned Mr W about any of the payments, Im not entirely 
persuaded he would have been honest. This is because he went on to mislead the bank in 
order to obtain loans to fund the investment, at the instruction of the scammer. So, given he 
was willing to give false information to the bank to receive funding for the loan, it seems 
likely he would have followed any further instructions from the scammer to mislead the bank 
if questioned about the purpose of the payments. In any event, this is a moot point given Im 
not persuaded there was enough reasonable cause for HSBC to be concerned about any of 
the payments. 
Overall, having considered the payments Mr W made to his Coinbase wallet, Im not 
persuaded there was anything that ought reasonably to have triggered HSBCs fraud 
monitoring systems, or that would have indicated he was at risk of financial harm in these 
circumstances. It follows that I do not think the bank can fairly be held liable for the money 
he has lost.  
Ive also considered whether HSBC could have anything more to recover the payments after 
Mr W reported the scam. But given the payments were made to his own account with 
Coinbase before being transferred on to the scammer, there would have been little 
prospects of HSBC being able to recover any funds from the beneficiary account. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman