DRN-4177649
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt offered a fair settlement for the total 
loss of her vehicle after a claim was made on her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2022, Mrs S was involved in a car accident which caused damage to her vehicle. So she 
made a claim to Aviva under her motor insurance policy. Aviva assessed the damage and 
deemed the car to be a total loss. 
Mrs S didnt want her car to be written off, so she obtained a quote from a local garage 
which estimated the cost of repairs to be less than the value of the car. Mrs S asked Aviva to 
pay for the repairs, as she didnt think the car was beyond economical repair. But Aviva 
didnt agree. 
Aviva offered to pay £3,645 for the total loss of the car  minus the policy excess of £330 
and 25% for the salvage (as Mrs S wants to keep the vehicle).
Mrs S complained that the offer was too low, and she was unhappy with the length of time it 
took Aviva to progress her claim. 
Aviva was satisfied its settlement offer was fair. But it acknowledged there were delays with 
its handling of the claim and offered £300 compensation for what went wrong. It also said it 
couldve offered the claim settlement two months earlier than it did, so its offered 8% simple 
interest for 60 days on the £3,645  which it says amounts to £47.93. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our Service. Our Investigator 
considered Avivas offer to be too low and she asked it to increase the offer to £5,607.75  
but that it could deduct the policy excess and salvage from this amount. She was satisfied 
the compensation offered fairly reflected the delays in the claim and didnt think Aviva 
needed to do anymore. 
Aviva accepted the increased settlement, which it said amounted to a further £230.82. But 
Mrs S didnt agree. She raised the following complaint points:
Aviva shouldnt have written off her car as she had a quote proving it was economical 
to repair.
Aviva had asked its garage to add on more repairs than what was reasonably 
required in order to push it over the threshold to be written off. 
The settlement offer isnt enough to have the car repaired.
The market value of the car will be much less now that its been written off, even after 
shes repaired it.
The complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Claim decision
The terms and conditions of Mrs S motor insurance policy allows Aviva to settle a claim as it 
sees fit. This means it doesnt need Mrs S approval of any decision on how it chooses to 
resolve or record a claim. Ive considered whether the decision it made is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Having reviewed the engineers report provided by Avivas repairers, I cant see anything 
obvious thats been added which doesnt need to be repaired. So Im satisfied Aviva was 
entitled to rely on this report when making its claims decision. 
I appreciate Mrs S obtained a quote which was lower. Whilst I havent seen the report from 
her garage, Im aware they quoted around £4,500. This is less than the market value, but 
that doesnt necessarily mean the car was economical to repair. Our general approach to 
complaints of this nature is that anything exceeding 60-70% of the market value is likely to 
be uneconomical. In this case, Mrs S quote is over 80% of the market value.
Because of this, Im satisfied Avivas decision to write off the car was fair and reasonable.
Market value
For clarity, its not my role to work out the exact value of Mrs S car. What I need to decide is 
whether Aviva has applied the terms of the policy correctly and valued the vehicle fairly. 
Mrs S policy says that Aviva will pay the market value of the car, less any policy excess, in 
the event of a total loss. The policy defines the market value as 
The cost of replacing your car with one of the same make, model, specification and 
condition. The market value may also be affected by other factors such as mileage, 
MOT status (if one is required), how you purchased your car and whether it has been 
previously declared a total loss.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers, our 
Service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their valuations are 
based on nationwide research, and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss. The 
guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taking into consideration including 
any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the age and mileage of a car can 
have a big impact on its value. 
We also think motor trade guides are generally more reliable than car adverts as asking 
prices in adverts tend to be inflated to allow room for downward negotiation.
Ive reviewed the trade guide valuations provided by Aviva, as well as the ones obtained by 
our Investigator which were slightly higher, as follows: £5,175, £5,690, £5,706, and £5,860. I 
can confirm all these values were based on the correct specification for Mrs S car and the 
correct month of loss. Wed usually expect an insurer to provide a value that falls within the 
range of values suggested by the guides. There is no requirement for them to offer the 
highest amount, so I think the average of these figures  which is £5,607.75  as suggested 
by our Investigator, is fair in the circumstances. Claim settlement
Under normal circumstances when a business settles a total loss claim under a motor policy 
it retains the salvage (which means it takes possession of the vehicle in its damaged state). 
But Mrs S wanted to keep her car and repair it. Aviva has allowed her to do so, but its 
entitled to deduct the amount it wouldve received when disposing of the salvage from the 
claims settlement. Aviva says this is 25% of the market value. This brings the claim 
settlement to £4,205.82.
I appreciate Mrs S cant repair her car for that amount. But it was her decision to retain the 
salvage and she had the option to choose the full total loss settlement instead of keeping the 
car. 
Mrs S policy has an excess of £330 which means she has to pay the first £330 of a claim. 
As such, Aviva are entitled to deduct this amount from the claim payment  which brings the 
total amount payable to £3,875.81. As Aviva has already paid £3,645, this leaves an 
additional £230.81 to pay. 
Customer service 
Mrs S is unhappy with the service she received from Aviva due to the length of time it took to 
progress her claim. She made her claim in August 2022 but didnt receive a final claims 
decision until November 2022  approximately three months later. 
Given that Aviva had the information it needed to conclude the claim, there were no 
justifiable reasons for things to take this long  and Aviva acknowledges that. 
Ive thought about the impact the distress and inconvenience caused to Mrs S wouldve had 
on her and Im satisfied that the £300 compensation already offered is in line with what I 
wouldve awarded on this complaint. Aviva has also offered to pay 8% interest on the 
settlement offer for the 60 days it was delayed. 
I think this is fair in the circumstances of the complaint so Im not asking Aviva to do anything 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay £230.81 to Mrs S in regard to the market value of her car. If Aviva hasnt already paid 
the compensation and interest offered, totalling £347.93, it should arrange for this payment 
to be made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman