DRN-2669903
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined her claim 
for storm damage under her buildings insurance.
What happened
Mrs M made a claim under her buildings insurance after the wall between her garden and a 
river collapsed during a storm. Lloyds inspected the damage but declined her claim under 
the policy exclusion of wear and tear. Mrs M complained to Lloyds, which then reconsidered 
the claim based on further information she provided. Mrs M provided a video showing the 
fast running river and the collapsed wall, along with a drywall experts report stating the wall 
was in good condition, and she challenged Lloyds view that there hadnt been a storm.
After reviewing the additional documents, Lloyds confirmed again that it declined Mrs Ms 
claim. It said the wall shouldve been able to withstand the rising water level and increased 
flow. Lloyds also pointed out that the soil beneath the wall had fallen into the river and the 
policy excluded any damage caused by soil erosion. Mrs M remained unhappy with its 
decision.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She agreed with Mrs M that thered been storm 
conditions, but she didnt think those conditions, recorded as a gale, were strong enough to 
have caused the damage. Our investigator thought both reasons Lloyds gave for declining 
the claim were fair and in line with the terms of the policy.
Mrs M didnt agree. She didnt think it was fair that Lloyds changed the reason for declining 
her claim after she challenged its original decision. Mrs M also didnt think she couldve done 
more to maintain the wall than she already had because it wasnt accessible from land.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mrs M will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
As I know Mrs M is aware, Ive considered three questions when deciding whether the 
damage was caused by a one-off storm event.
Was there a storm?
While Lloyds said the windspeed didnt meet its definition of a storm, it went on to assess the 
damage as if thered been a storm. The windspeed met the definition of a gale, but the 
accompanying rain was forceful enough that there was widespread media coverage of it as a 
named storm. Therefore, I accept that there was a storm.
Was the damage consistent with that typical of a storm?
Ive looked at what Lloyds said in respect of this point when it reviewed Mrs Ms claim. 
Because the reported windspeed met the definition of a gale rather than a stronger wind, 
Lloyds didnt think it couldve caused the structural damage for which Mrs M was claiming. I 
dont doubt that the wall collapsed into the river during the storm, so I can see why Mrs M 
thinks the storm caused the damage. But, as gale force winds dont generally cause the 
structural damage seen here, I cant fairly conclude that its consistent with that typically 
caused by a storm. So, Ive thought about this alongside the third question.
Were storm conditions the main cause?
Just because the damage happened during a storm, that doesnt mean the storm caused it. 
Lloyds inspected the damage and said there were gaps in the stonework and similar 
damage further along the river. Lloyds concluded that the wall showed signs of wear and 
tear and declined the claim under the following policy exclusion:
Uninsurable causes 
Any loss or damage caused by: 
A gradually operating cause. This is something that happens gradually over a period 
of time, for example corrosion, damp, condensation, decay or decomposition. 
Wear and tear.
River or coastal erosion. 
When thinking about whether the storm was the main cause of the damage, I must consider 
whether Mrs M has shown that the wall was in good condition before the collapse, and 
whether Lloyds has shown that its reasonable to think the wall mightve collapsed anyway, 
regardless of the storm conditions. The expert report Lloyds obtained provides a detailed 
description of the wall, surrounding area, and the natural breakdown of materials. Mrs M 
provided a report from a local wall expert, who said the wall was in good condition and it 
wouldve only collapsed under force. With two conflicting reports, Ive thought about whether 
it was fair for Lloyds to base its decision on its own report. I think Lloyds report is more 
compelling when compared with Mrs Ms report because of the detailed description of the 
walls condition. So, on balance, I think it was fair for Lloyds to place more weight on its own 
findings. 
Based on my consideration of the three questions, Ive decided that Lloyds fairly declined 
Mrs Ms claim because the evidence suggests wear and tear was the main contributor to the 
walls collapse, and the storm simply revealed the existing deterioration.
Mrs M is also unhappy that Lloyds changed its reason for declining her claim. After she 
challenged the wear and tear exclusion, Lloyds told Mrs M that damage caused by soil 
erosion was excluded from cover. Within the same exclusion as wear and tear, and which 
Ive already quoted, I can see the policy excludes cover for river erosion.
Ive thought about whether it was fair for Lloyds to change its mind, but I dont think it did. 
Lloyds declined Mrs Ms claim because she hadnt provided sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate that the wall was damaged mainly by one-off storm conditions. When she 
challenged that decision, Lloyds provided a second reason. I think that was to further explain 
why it declined her claim rather than to change the reason, so I think it was right to explain 
further. Looking back at Lloyds expert report, I can see that it says the riverbank had 
collapsed. The photos support this, so it wasnt just that the wall itself collapsed. As the 
riverbank is soil, I think its fair for Lloyds to say that the soil eroded, and the wall on the soil 
collapsed because of that erosion. Therefore, Im satisfied that Lloyds simply provided further explanation for declining the claim rather than changing its mind. I dont think it was 
unfair to do so.
I think its worth pointing out here that Lloyds wasnt sure that Mrs M was responsible for the 
maintenance of the riverbank wall. It has advised that she seeks clarification.
In summary, Im satisfied that Lloyds declined Mrs Ms claim fairly for the reasons given, in 
line with the policy exclusions. I dont uphold the complaint and I wont be asking Lloyds to 
do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman