DRN-4011341
The complaint
Mr M complains that Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life) mis-sold him a 
personal pension (PP), as the charges are higher than it led him to believe.
What happened
Mr M had a stakeholder pension with Standard Life and, following a call with it on                 
9 April 2020, he moved to its PP but remained in the same two funds that his previous 
pension had been invested in. During this call, Mr M was told the combined charge for the 
PP would be 0.515% after a 0.5% discount was applied. But his statements dated April 2021 
and May 2022 showed respective charges of 0.6% and 0.8%. So, in May 2022, Mr M 
complained to Standard Life that his PP had been mis-sold, as the charges were higher than 
it led him to believe. 
In response, Standard Life said Mr Ms discount is being correctly applied, as are the costs 
and charges on his statements. It said that the charges include, for example, its 
management charge and additional expenses, which are explicit charges paid directly from 
an individuals policy to cover administration, customer support and investment 
management. And that the statements also now include transaction costs, which are implicit 
and deducted at fund level, rather than by it. It said transaction costs arent new and reflect 
incidental expenses fund managers incur when making changes to underlying investments.  
 
After Mr M responded saying Standard Life hadnt addressed his mis-sale complaint, it wrote 
to him again in July 2022. It said that it gave him accurate information on 9 April 2020 about 
the 0.515% charges directly paid from his PP. It said transaction costs are additional and 
can only be reflected retrospectively, as it cant predict how much buying and selling the fund 
manager needs to do to account for market conditions. It said the recent inclusion of these in 
statements represents what has always been accounted for within a funds performance and 
were also charged as part of Mr Ms previous stakeholder plan. And that as his funds 
remained the same in his PP compared to his previous plan, but the discount was 
increasing, there was an effective decrease in Mr Ms charges.  
Mr M brought his complaint to our Service. He added, in summary, that he stayed with 
Standard Life as its charges were most competitive. And because it told him on 9 April 2020 
that hed pay less with its PP than hed been paying with his stakeholder plan, which was 
nearly 0.8%. Mr M said he accepted the contract on that basis. Mr M also said Standard Life 
told him there werent any transaction costs. And that if hed known his overall charges were 
still going to be around 0.8% he would have gone with another provider. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ms complaint and said that while Standard Life now 
needs to disclose transaction costs  which is why the charges on Mr Ms statements have 
gone up  these are different to its direct charges, which have remained the same at 
0.515%. He recognised Standard Life told Mr M there arent any transaction costs and that it 
could have made it clearer that these are additional, for example in its terms and conditions. 
But he said that, in any case, Mr Ms new PP was still cheaper given he invested in the same 
funds as he had in the stakeholder plan, but with lower charges. And he said that its unlikely 
other providers would have told Mr M about transaction costs either, so hed be in similar 
position if he had gone elsewhere. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said, in summary, that hes shown he was sold the policy on the basis 
the charges would be lower when they arent, and that he was told there wouldnt be any 
other charges for transactions. So Mr M thinks its irrelevant whether or not, for example, 
Standard Life had undisclosed transaction costs, and that he might have incurred similar 
costs with other providers. Mr M also said his call with Standard Life on 9 April 2020 was a 
verbal contract thats binding.
As Mr M didnt agree, his complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While Mr M has said Standard Life entered into a legally binding contract during its call with 
him on 9 April 2020, I think its important to clarify that our Service isnt a court. So its not my 
role to decide whether or not a binding contract was formed. Whilst I take relevant law into 
account when making my decision, my role is to consider whats fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. And, having done so, Im not asking Standard Life to do anything, for 
largely the same reasons as our Investigator. 
I havent seen anything to suggest Standard Life provided Mr M with advice, but it still 
needed to communicate information to him in a way that was clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
Having listened to the above call Mr M had with Standard Life, including the particular parts 
hes referenced, Ive heard that Mr M was told that after his discount, the combined charge 
for the PP would be 0.515% and cheaper than his existing stakeholder plan. And that this 
covers the setting up and servicing of the plan. Mr M then asked about underlying costs of 
moving plans and was told there was no charge for doing so. However, the call handler went 
on to say there are no other charges for transactions with the PP, before telling Mr M that its 
the same scenario as his current stakeholder pension, but that his charges would be lower. 
So I can understand why Mr M thought something had gone wrong upon seeing higher 
charges on his statements than the 0.515% he was told about. And I recognise Mr M was 
incorrectly told he wouldnt incur transaction costs during the call, given that all funds incur 
these. But I dont think Mr M was mis-led that his PP is cheaper than his stakeholder plan. 
This is because, when also bearing in mind how transaction costs work and how these have 
previously been treated in the industry, I think Mr M has still made the saving he was led to 
believe he would in the circumstances. Ill explain why. 
I think Standard Life has reasonably explained that while the charges appear to have 
increased on Mr Ms statements compared to what he was told, this is due to changes in the 
way transaction costs  implicit costs allowed for in the unit price before Standard Life 
deducts charges  are now treated. Standard Life correctly said it wasnt required to disclose 
these in advance, or in statements until February 2021 following regulatory changes, nor 
was it standard industry practice to do so. And that every plan incurs transaction costs and 
Mr M has always been charged these as part of his previous and new plan. 
This means nothing has changed with Mr Ms plan other than that the transaction costs hes 
always been paying now have to be disclosed in his statements. If not for this, they would 
have otherwise just reflected the explicit charges  those Standard Life directly deducts from 
his plan  of 0.515% that it was obliged to, and did, tell him about on 9 April 2020.   I can see from Mr Ms March 2020 statement for his previous stakeholder plan that he was 
being charged 0.799%. Given this plan was also provided by Standard Life who has 
explained it didnt disclose transactions costs in advance, or include these on statements 
until February 2021, I think its likely the 0.799% only reflected Standard Lifes explicit costs 
rather than the fund managers transaction costs. And, given the charge Mr M was told about 
for his new PP, also not including transaction costs, was lower than this after discount at 
0.515%, I think this shows Mr Ms explicit charges were decreasing with his new PP. 
As Mr M was also investing in the same two funds in his PP as he had in his stakeholder 
plan, I think its likely that the transaction costs in his PP remained the same as, or similar to, 
what he would have incurred in his stakeholder plan. This is supported by Standard Lifes 
explanation that as Mr Ms funds remained the same, but his explicit costs were lower due to 
a bigger discount, there was an effective decrease in his charges.  
I think its also worth adding that it seems unlikely the charges Mr Ms said he was quoted by 
other providers included transaction costs either, given it isnt industry practice to do so in 
advance  particularly as these vary and are applied retrospectively. And I note Mr M hasnt 
suggested or provided evidence from the time to show otherwise. 
I cant see that at the time Standard Life changed its statements to include transaction costs, 
it explained to customers like Mr M what the changes were and why it was doing this. I think 
it would have been better customer service to do so. But I think its likely Mr M would have 
been unhappy in any event at the thought he might be paying more for his plan, even though 
I dont think he is for the above reasons. 
So as I think Mr M made the saving he anticipated, I cant fairly conclude hes been mis-led   
by Standard Life that his PP would be cheaper. Nor do I think hes been financially 
disadvantaged by it incorrectly telling him there wouldnt be any transaction costs. And this 
means Im not asking Standard Life to do anything. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that Im not asking Standard Life Assurance 
Limited to do anything.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman