DRN-2623296
The complaint
Mr Ts complained, on behalf of his late mothers estate, that he couldnt use the estates 
account with Nationwide Building Society for several weeks  which he says caused him 
stress and a loss to the beneficiaries.
What happened
Mr Ts mother passed away in the first half of 2019.  Mr T was named as her executor.  He 
opened an executors account with Nationwide.  The account Nationwide offers to executors 
is branch operated using a passbook.
Towards the end of 2019, the sale of Mr Ts mothers house was completed.  He instructed 
the conveyancing solicitors to pay the sale proceeds into the executors account.
The solicitors transferred the proceeds on 25 November.  But when Mr T checked, theyd not 
been credited to the executors account.  Nationwide told him that this was because his 
solicitors hadnt included the right reference number, and the funds would be returned to 
their source in the following days.  They were returned to the solicitors account on 28 
November.
On that day, the solicitors tried again to transfer the funds  they and Mr T having checked 
with Nationwide theyd provided all the necessary information on the transfer instruction.  
The transfer failed again.  Nationwide told Mr T that changes to FCA regulations meant hed 
need to apply for a new executors account  which he did on 29 November.  
At the same time, Mr T raised a complaint that hed not been advised to open a new account 
earlier.  He felt that, if hed done that, the problems that had occurred couldve been avoided.  
The account was opened on 5 December.  But Mr T didnt receive the passbook until 14 
December  so he couldnt use the account until then.
Nationwide investigated Mr Ts complaint.  They said that the first payment wasnt successful 
because it didnt include all the right payee information.  They said they shouldve explained 
this better to Mr T and paid him £50 compensation.
Mr T wasnt satisfied that all his concerns had been investigated  in particular, why 
Nationwide hadnt acted sooner to have him open a new account.  So he contacted 
Nationwide again.  Nationwide said they have to comply with the FCAs rules.  And theyd 
made a decision to handle that on a case by case basis by branches rather than write to 
their customers.
Nationwide also addressed concerns Mr T had raised about delays in opening the account.  
They said theyd told him it would take a few days  and it took four working days.  But they 
accepted they could have been more precise in giving a timescale.  And they accepted that 
a system error had led to a delay in sending Mr T the passbook.  They offered Mr T an 
additional £150 compensation.
Mr T brought his complaint to us.  Our investigator looked into it but didnt think that 
Nationwide needed to do anything different to resolve the complaint.  He explained that the 
party eligible to bring a complaint about this matter is the estate  not Mr T personally.  So 
we wouldnt direct Nationwide to pay Mr T any compensation for personal trouble and upset 
 even though Nationwide had done that.  And he didnt think the estate had lost out as a 
result of the delay in opening the account.
Mr T didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding the complaint Mr Ts brought to us.  Ill explain why.
Ill start by saying that its not the role of our service to tell businesses how they should 
comply with their regulatory obligations.  Its clear from what Ive read that Mr T thinks 
Nationwide should have handled the changes resulting from the FCAs new regulations 
differently.  But I cant say they should have done.
What I can consider is the impact Nationwides handling of those changes had on their 
customer  in this case, Mr Ts late mothers estate.  So Ive looked at what would have 
happened if Mr Ts solicitors had been able to transfer the money as hed intended  and 
whether the estates lost out because that couldnt happen.
I understand Mr T intended to draw cheques for the beneficiaries as soon as he was able to.  
Im persuaded thats the case, because he did that within a few days of the money arriving in 
the Nationwide account.
Mr Ts said that the delay in paying the beneficiaries meant they lost out, because they could 
have deposited their inheritance cheques into a higher interest account sooner.  Hes given 
an example of one such account, which was paying 1% more interest than the executors 
account at the time.
Ive thought about this.  But Ive not seen evidence that any of the beneficiaries had decided 
what to do with the money they received.  I dont think its reasonable for me to speculate on 
what theyd decided to do  or to direct that Nationwide make a payment to the estate on 
that basis.
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide should pay the estate interest for the period 
between when Mr Ts solicitors first tried to pay the sale proceeds into the account and when 
they were able to do so.
The solicitors tried to make the payment twice.  I dont think Nationwide were responsible for 
the failure of the first payment.  It was refused because not all the payee information had 
been properly completed.  That means it wouldnt have been credited to the account on that 
occasion, even if there was no other issue with the account.  So I dont think its fair for me to 
say Nationwide are responsible for that.
The second payment was delayed, because Nationwide made Mr T open a new account 
before the sale proceeds could be paid in.  Mr T says the estates lost interest because of 
this.  
Ive considered this.  But I dont think its fair for me to decide Nationwide should pay interest 
for this time because the money wasnt in their system  it was with Mr Ts solicitors.  And Im aware the rules governing solicitors provide for them to pay interest when theyre holding 
clients money  so Im not satisfied that not transferring the money to Nationwide caused 
the estate to lose out on interest.  Mr T may want to contact his solicitors to explore this with 
them.
Its clear from everything Ive seen that Mr T was personally inconvenienced by how 
Nationwide dealt with the executor account.  While I cant consider that, Im pleased to see 
that Nationwide have acknowledged this  and compensated Mr T for that.  But I dont think 
they need to do anything else to resolve the complaint hes brought on behalf of his late 
mothers estate. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs T 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman