DRN-3310207
The complaint
Mr A and Ms W have complained about the service provided by Haven Insurance Company 
Limited (Haven) after they were involved in an incident with a third-party vehicle. 
What happened
Mr A and Ms W say their parked car was struck by a third-party vehicle. They contacted 
Haven for assistance, but they say that Havens actions have left them at a financial loss and 
caused them a lot of distress.
Mr A and Ms W complained to Haven about their experience. Haven upheld the complaint in 
part. Haven offered a cash-in-lieu settlement for the repairs based on Mr A and Ms Ws 
repair estimate and £150 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused.
But Mr A and Ms W are unhappy with this and they complained to this service. An 
investigator reviewed the complaint and said that Haven had done enough to resolve the 
issues raised.
But Mr A and Ms W dont agree, and theyve asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 14 January 2022. That provisional 
decision is below and forms part of my final decision.
What Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning on 
upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr A and Ms W were sitting in their car when a third party allegedly collided with them and 
drove off. Ms W took a photo of the alleged third-party vehicle as it drove away. They called 
the police to report the incident and they called their insurer Haven for advice. At this point 
Mr A and Ms W wanted to consider their next steps. They wanted to decide whether to claim 
directly from the third-party or through Haven on their own comprehensive policy.
A number of weeks later Mr A and Ms W received their annual renewal and they noticed 
their premium had increased substantially. So, Ms W rang Haven to ask why. It was during 
this call that a number of things were discussed. Haven told Ms W that the claim was open 
and recorded as fault. Haven said that it had contacted the third-party but hadnt received an 
admission of liability. No claim had actually been initiated against Mr A and Ms Ws 
comprehensive policy at that stage as Mr A had asked Haven to wait for a response from the 
third party. So, Haven explained that at this stage, even though Mr A and Ms W said this 
was a non-fault claim, it was recorded as fault and would remain as a fault claim until the 
third-party accepted liability for the claim. Haven explained this was normal insurance 
industry practice.
When Ms W queried the lack of progress against the third-party, Haven explained as there 
was no claim actually initiated and it had no subrogated losses its hands were technically 
tied. So, in order to progress the claim Mr A and Ms W would have to start a claim. Haven 
would then have an outlay to chase. Ms W seems to have completely understood this and 
Haven explained the process very clearly.
Later that day Ms W called Haven back. She said that as they were being asked to pay an 
increased premium anyway, it would be better to start the claims process. Haven asked Ms 
W if the car is repairable or a total loss and what the damage was worth. Ms W rightly 
advised that she was no expert and she set out the cosmetic damage that was on the car. 
Haven ran a HPI check and advised that the car is worth around £1,600. At this point 
excess was discussed. Ms W said the excess was £200 but Haven said the vehicle mileage 
and value meant there was an additional excess of £350 due and Haven contacted the 
broker to confirm.
The conversation then turns to where the car would be repaired. Ms W wanted to get an 
estimate from their own local garage. Haven explained that to have the car repaired at a 
garage of Ms Ws choice, its likely the repairs would cost more (less favourable rates) so Mr 
A and Ms W would have to pay any difference or a further excess. Haven then correctly 
advised Ms W that it would request any excess payable back from the third-party insurer 
when it would be requesting the outlay from the third-party (if there was one). The 
conversation then turns to a courtesy car and Mr As special adaptations on the damaged 
vehicle. Mr A has a disability and needs a specially positioned pedal placement on his car. 
Haven explains that it would only provide a standard courtesy car and Ms W explains that 
would be fine as her car is also adapted and they could swap. Haven explains how the 
process works from this point and Ms W agrees to start the claim. 
However, in the following days and weeks the process is frustrated. The third-party insurer 
contests the claim and Haven decide the car isnt repairable and it writes the car off. But Mr 
A and Ms W dont want this to happen. In fact, the engineers report says that they plead with 
Haven not to write the car off. Mr A and Ms W say this will leave them in a worse financial 
position, because of an endorsement on the policy and the cost of the specific vehicle 
adaptions that would be required on another vehicle. But Haven says it cant reverse the 
total loss categorisation and after a long battle they return the car to the couple with the total 
loss categorisation in place, and Mr A and Ms W halt the claim. At this point Haven stop 
chasing the third-party as it has no outlay and the car is sold at a substantial loss as Mr A 
and Ms W cant afford the repairs and there is a category N salvage marker on the car.
When Mr A and Ms W bring their complaint to this service, they have at least 20 points of 
complaint. They have an issue with how the claim was recorded as fault and the impact of 
this on their no claims discount and a premium increase. They believe they were 
misinformed about the use of their own repairer and an additional excess in this situation. 
They have an issue with how salvage is calculated, the car being classed as a total loss and 
the battle to retain the vehicle. Mr A specifically says Havens actions in writing off the 
vehicle and not allowing its retention in the event of a claim, is an indirect discrimination 
against a disabled driver and both Mr A and Ms W say the distress caused by this whole 
experience has been immense. They have also raised a discrepancy with the excess 
amount and the fact that their local garage says the car was repairable. Theyve provided an 
estimate to support this.
So, lets start at the beginning. I think, having listened to the calls Haven were very clear in 
explaining the process to Ms W. The claims handler is good and set everything out clearly. 
However, I think the process Haven used to determine the initial car valuation and the 
subsequent process to write the vehicle off isnt fair in this specific circumstance.The claims handler does a HPI check and tells Ms W in this call that the car is worth around 
£1,600. Ms W is no expert, as she admits herself, so she doesnt know either way. After 
inspection and desktop assessment the car is deemed to worth £1,642. This is based on the 
policy definition of market value which is defined as The value of your car at the date loss 
according to the Glasss Guide mid book value. 
But if Haven wants to give the term market value a different meaning, wed expect this to be 
highlighted in the policy documents so that when Mr A and Ms W are taking out the policy, 
they would know from the outset that they were likely to get a lower settlement, if the car was 
a total loss. This would give them the option of finding a policy where market value means 
just that. I can see nothing in the policy documents, or schedule that flags up Havens 
definition of market value. So, in this particular instance I dont think its fair or reasonable 
for Haven to rely on the policy terms and conditions to limit the amount its willing to pay. 
And in any event the terms and conditions make it clear that the mid-book value is only a 
starting point and the valuation will be adjusted to take into account the condition of the car, 
mileage etc. It isnt clear to me how Havens engineer got to a valuation of £1,642. The 
report says the vehicle is in fair condition as per the photos provided to the engineer, there 
are no pre-existing conditions noted and the total deductions is noted as £0. The lack of any 
explanation of the final valuation the engineer came up with shows the difficulty of this 
approach. 
So, in this particular case I think using the retail value provided by the trade guides is more 
straightforward, accurate and fair, being based more closely on the features of the individual 
vehicle in question. So, Ive ran our own valuations, using our established approach. Given 
the date of loss I could only find two valuations and they are as follows:
Motor valuation 1 - £2,360
Motor valuation 2 - £2,650
As such I think a fairer valuation for this vehicle in this particular instance is £2,500.
I appreciate that the third party may never have accepted this claim, and the fault claim may 
have remained on record impacting the premium and no claims discount. But well never 
know now as the claim has been discontinued. And the approach Haven has used started a 
chain of events that led to disputes over the cost of salvage, salvage categorisation, the 
retention of a vehicle, excess dispute and a potential additional excess for using a separate 
repairer. 
But Im not going to go into any of the above. Im upholding the complaint because Havens 
definition of market value is significantly different to what wed normally see, and this wasnt 
appropriately highlighted to Mr A and Ms W. As such the definition of market value that 
should be used is the normal industry definition of market value. 
Our established approach tells us that the market value of this vehicle at the time of loss was 
approximately £2,500. And if this valuation had been used, the car would never have been 
deemed a total loss, no matter which repair estimate was used, the claim process would 
never have ended without determining liability either way, and its unlikely Mr A and Ms W 
wouldve encountered any of the above issues or be in the situation theyre in now. Using 
this amended valuation, Im going to try and put Mr A and Ms W back in the position they 
wouldve most likely found themselves in. 
I note that Haven in its final response and in an effort to resolve the complaint has actually 
recorded the claim as notification only, and it has offered to pay the claim as a cash in lieu 
based on the lower repair estimate. Im unsure why it has chosen to pay the lower estimate, given its earlier reluctance to allow Mr A and Ms W use that repairer. But I think Haven has 
at least approached this with a view to resolving the complaint. 
However, I just dont think Haven has gone far enough. The vehicle has been now been sold 
at a substantial loss to Mr A and Ms W. And because of what happened Mr A and Ms W had 
to take a charitable loan to buy a new car and Im assuming they had to have it adapted too, 
at their own cost. 
So, what Im going to recommend is that Haven pays Mr A and Ms W the cost of what its 
garage estimated the repairs should be less the excess and less anything Haven has 
already paid following its final response. So thats £1,804.38 less an excess of £500 (as 
clarified by Haven) and less any cash in lieu already paid. 8% simple interest should also be 
paid on the differential amount to be paid from date of claim to date of settlement. As the 
claim was halted, the record on all databases both internal and external should remain as 
notification only. 
Im also very conscious of the considerable distress and inconvenience caused to Mr A and 
Ms W throughout this whole process. Not only have they had to endure a very stressful 
situation, theyve had to approach a charity to get themselves back on the road in a car 
suitably adapted for Mr A, and this cant have been easy. So, on top of the £150 Haven has 
already offered Im going to recommend a further £500 in compensation (£650 in total) for 
the impact this whole experience has had on Mr A and Ms W.
Finally, I want to deal with the issue Mr A and Ms W has raised about indirect discrimination 
against a disabled driver, specifically in relation to the adaptions Mr A has on his vehicle, 
and Havens reluctance to take these into account. My understanding from looking at the 
schedule of insurance and from listening to the calls provided is that the specific 
endorsement excluding modification costs in the event of a total loss, and the endorsement 
about additional excess if using a repairer of your choice, are endorsements added by Mr A 
and Ms Ws broker, and not Haven. Ive read and understood this points of complaint, but I 
wont be dealing with either issue as this is a complaint against Haven solely and not the 
broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sent my provisional decision on 14 January 2022 as set out above. Both parties have 
replied and both parties have now agreed to my provisional decision. As such I see no 
reason to depart from my findings as set out above.
Please note Mr A and Ms W have asked for us not to include an interest payment as part of 
any award.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Haven Insurance Company Limited 
to:
pay £1,804.38 (less any cash in lieu thats already been paid if any, and £500 
excess). Please note, as requested, an interest payment is not to be included with 
this amount. 
Incident remains recorded as notification only on all internal and external databases.pay a further £500 in compensation (£650 in total) for the distress and inconvenience 
suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms W to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Derek Dunne
Ombudsman