DRN-3199510
The complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc prevented him from closing his account 
and accessing his money.
What happened
Mr B lives abroad and says he has been trying to close his Santander account since 
around 2019. He says he attended a Santander branch in 2019 with identification 
documents but it refused to accept them. He also says he has spoken to Santander, but it 
has refused to close his account and change his address. Mr B says he is being charged 
an account fee and would like his money transferred to his account he holds with a 
different business.
Santander says it has no record of Mr B attending a branch in 2019 and says it later 
asked him for evidence of his postcode, but he refused to provide it and told it to search 
for it itself. It says its entitled to ask for such evidence.
Mr B brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld the complaint. The 
investigator thought it clear Santander was dealing with Mr B when he called as he 
passed security and had provided documents conforming his address if not his postcode. 
The investigator thought Santander could have sorted matters out more appropriately and 
recommended it pay £100 compensation and 8% simple interest on the balance since the 
original request to close the account in 2019.
Santander has closed the account and transferred the money to Mr Bs other account and 
says it will pay £100 compensation and is prepared to pay the difference in interest 
between its account and Mr Bs other account from August 2020 until May 2021. It says 
Mr Bs account had an active direct debit until April 2021 and says he could have 
transferred money out of the account.
Mr B doesnt accept that offer and says he is not prepared to provide the interest rate 
he receives on the other account and says he has been prevented from accessing his 
money for five years. He would like to know how much he has been charged by 
Santander in that time.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and said as follows.
I came to the overall view that I uphold this complaint in part and agreed with the 
investigator that Santander ought to pay £100 compensation. But I didnt think it ought to 
pay interest on the account balance for the reasons I would explain.
I couldnt see any record of Mr B attending a Santander branch in 2019 and attempting to 
either update his address or close his account. I thought it likely an audit record would 
have been created if an attempt had been made or if Mr Bs account was accessed. I 
appreciated Mr B says he did attend a branch and I thought it more likely that a discussion 
took place between the parties rather than an actual attempt during which Mr Bs account 
was accessed. In those circumstances I thought it difficult to be sure if a mistake was 
made on that occasion or by whom.
I was satisfied that matters could have been sorted out far sooner than they were, but I 
thought both sides to this complaint contributed to that. I was satisfied that Santander 
explained to Mr B what its procedure was for closing an account and that it required 
evidence of Mr Bs postcode. I appreciated that Mr B had provided evidence of the rest of 
his address, but I didnt think he provided evidence of the postcode. I also thought that he 
told Santander to find it itself. I could see that Santander did eventually make an 
exception and close the account.
So, I thought Mr B could have provided the evidence Santander wanted and so the 
process was delayed as a result, but equally I thought Santander could have considered 
an alternative solution at an earlier stage. For that reason, I thought Santander should 
pay £100 compensation.
I thought provisionally it would be unfair to order Santander to pay 8% interest for the 
reasons I explained and that I found if Mr B had wanted urgent access to his money then 
he could have simply provided evidence of the postcode. I also didnt think Mr B had 
explained why he says he had been prevented from accessing his money for about five 
years. I thought Mr B may have had online banking and so could have made payments out 
of his account and I couldnt see what would have stopped him transferring money out of 
his Santander account. I hoped Mr B could explain why if he attended a Santander branch 
in 2019, he didnt transfer money out of that account or on any other occasion.
I saw that Mr B was using his account and that there was a direct debit in place until April 
2021. So, I didnt think it clear why Mr B complains about account charges or why he says 
they are relevant. And I didnt think Mr B has explained why he didnt stop the payments 
into his Santander account or transfer the direct debit to a different account.
Overall, my provisional view was that Santander ought to pay £100 compensation which 
it agreed to. I also thought Santander had made a fair and reasonable offer to pay the 
difference in interest between Mr Bs accounts. For the reasons I explained I thought 
provisionally that Mr B could have accessed his money and so it unfair to order 
Santander to pay 8% interest on the balance.
Santander doesnt wish to comment further on my provisional decision.
Mr B disagrees with my provisional decision and in summary says he was asked to move 
on five occasions which caused problems with Santander and in updating his address. 
He says the postcode in the country he lives in is not the same as a United Kingdom 
postcode and has provided a detailed response to my decision which I confirm I have 
read.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the same decision I reached in my provisional decision and 
for the same reasons. There is no need for me to repeat those reasons. I appreciate Mr B 
doesnt wish to provide Santander with the interest rates details and would like the 
compensation offer paid to charity. That of course is something he can do if he wishes. Putting things right
Santander should pay Mr B £100 compensation and pay him any interest difference if Mr B 
provides the interest rate information.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr 
B £100 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman