DRN-4297832
The complaint
Mr B complains about the service he received from Automobile Association Insurance 
Services Limited (AA). He says it didnt send him the terms and conditions for parts and 
garage cover when he took out a breakdown policy online. Hes also complained that it didnt 
notify him of a premium increase at renewal.
What happened
In July 2021, Mr B took out breakdown cover through AA, who acted as the broker. Mr B 
purchased the policy online. The level of cover he took out included parts and garage cover.
In April 2023, Mr B phoned AA and said he wanted to claim for the cost of repairs following a 
tyre puncture, hed sought roadside assistance for in October 2021. Mr B said his tyre, 
wheel, shock absorber and some other parts were damaged as a result of the puncture.
AA told Mr B that parts and garage cover didnt cover tyres as a cause of failure, nor any 
consequence of the tyre failing. It said this information could be found in the Parts and 
Garage Cover booklet which was separate to the AA terms and conditions. 
Mr B said the parts and garage cover booklet wasnt attached to the email that was sent to 
him when he took out the policy in July 2021. He complained to AA that it hadnt made him 
aware that the parts he wanted to claim for werent covered by the policy. Mr B also raised 
concerns that AA hadnt made him aware of an increase in his premiums in mid-2022 and 
hed been charged for a year without being properly informed.
AA said the welcome pack email that was sent to Mr B in July 2021 should have included 
both AA membership and parts and garage cover terms and conditions. Even if the terms 
werent included, they were provided prior to him purchasing the cover online and were 
always available on the AA website. It said it was its customers responsibility to read 
through terms and conditions and ensure they were aware of the entitlements and 
restrictions of cover they have or intended to purchase.
AA said it had issued renewal documentation by post in May 2022 and this hadnt been 
returned. Payments were taken by direct debit in good faith. It would expect its customers to 
notice if a different monthly instalment was being collected and contact AA if they had a 
concern.
Mr B remained unhappy and asked our service to consider his concerns. Our investigator 
didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied AA had provided sufficient 
information to Mr B when he took out the policy and at renewal. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators outcome. He said the parts and garage cover terms 
and conditions should have been included in AAs welcome pack, but they werent. It was 
AAs responsibility to inform him of the policys exclusions, not his to go on its website. There 
was no mention of exclusions regarding damaged tyres in the policy documents hed 
received. He wasnt informed about obtaining the parts and garage cover terms and 
conditions. He didnt think AA had been transparent. He said he would have cancelled his 
policy if hed been aware of the additional clauses.
As Mr B disagrees with our investigators outcome, his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Im aware that Mr B also brought a complaint about the underwriter of the policy to our 
service regarding its decision to decline his claim. In this decision, Ive only considered the 
actions of AA in its capacity as the broker.
AA has an obligation to pay due regard to the information needs of its customers and 
communicate with them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading. 
Ive looked at what was showing on AAs website when Mr B took out the cover in July 2021. 
I can see that parts and garage cover was an optional extra and there was a separate terms 
and conditions booklet for this. AA says Mr B would have needed to agree to the terms and 
conditions when he took out the policy and I think this is likely to have been the case.
AA has provided a copy of the welcome email that was sent to Mr B after he took out the 
policy online.
This says:
Weve attached your Policy Documents. Save them to your computer now to print them any 
time.
You can only get help with Parts and Garage Cover bills for breakdowns that happen after 
the first 14 days of purchasing your cover. You can find full details of the claims process and 
your policy in your Parts and Garage Cover terms and conditions booklet.
So, Im satisfied AA made Mr B aware there was a separate parts and garage cover terms 
and conditions booklet in its welcome email, even if the booklet wasnt attached.
I appreciate it was disappointing for Mr B to find that he wasnt able to claim for the repairs 
hed wanted to almost two years after he took out the policy. But Im not persuaded that AA 
was trying to hide essential information from him. Im satisfied that the relevant terms and 
conditions were available to Mr B before and after he took out the policy. Mr B chose to 
include parts and garage cover in his breakdown policy. It was up to him to read the 
information available to him to ensure it met his needs. 
Mr B has also complained that he wasnt made aware of an increase in his premium when 
the policy was renewed in 2022. AA has provided a copy of the renewal letter it says was 
sent to Mr B in May 2022 which advises him of the premium increase. Its also provided a 
screen shot of its correspondence screen to show that it was sent. Mr B says he didnt 
receive the letter, but its correctly addressed and AA says it wasnt returned.
Based on what Ive seen, I think AA is likely to have sent the letter. So, Im not persuaded it 
didnt inform Mr B of the change in the premium.Its possible Mr B didnt receive the letter, but payments were taken monthly by direct debit 
so they would likely have shown on his bank statements. Its unfortunate that Mr B doesnt 
appear to have noticed the change in premium for almost a year. AA says it would have 
discussed this with him if hed made it aware of a concern about the amount. I also note that 
the terms allowed him to cancel the policy at any time by giving AA 30 days notice. As Im 
satisfied notification of the premium increase was sent to Mr B, Im not persuaded AA has 
done anything wrong here.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr B, but I havent found reason to uphold his 
complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman