DRN-3372344
The complaint
Mr M complains about a decision by Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsburys) not to uphold a 
claim he made to them about a failed repair on his car.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint.
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong, and the payment was made in part or in whole with a credit
card, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a claim through a chargeback
request to the scheme provider (Mastercard in this instance). Sainsburys attempted to 
process a chargeback, but it was rejected as the garage who attempted to repair Mr Ms car 
defended the claim, saying they had completed the repairs. They also attempted to take the 
chargeback to arbitration but as that was also unsuccessful, and as the scheme wasnt 
theres to administer, I cant say Sainsburys did anything wrong with regard to the 
chargeback process.
As Mr M paid for the repairs with his credit card it would have been possible for Sainsburys 
to have also considered his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(section 75). That legislation says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit 
agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if 
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. Here the suggestion 
would have been that there was a breach of the implied terms of the contract; that the repair 
should have been of satisfactory quality.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met. That was therefore an avenue I think Sainsburys should have explored.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) applies where there is an agreement between a trader and 
a consumer for the supply of services such as car repairs.
There is an expectation that services should be carried out with reasonable care and skill 
and if they havent been the legislation gives the trader the right, in these circumstances, to 
complete the service again so the work conforms with what was agreed.
When Mr M complained to the trader about the work theyd completed on his car they 
offered to put things right for him. Its no longer possible to put things right as Mr M has now 
sold the car. So, I think the trader did what the law required of them by offering to put things 
right, and because of that I dont think there has been a breach of contract. So, even if 
Sainsburys had processed Mr Ms claim under section 75 I dont think it would have 
succeeded. So, I dont think Sainsburys actions have been unreasonable.
Mr M also says that the trader damaged his car whilst it was being repaired. Whilst thats a 
complaint, and possibly a claim, he may wish to make directly to the trader I dont think its 
something that I could reasonably expect Sainsburys to consider. Theyre expected to 
consider whether the contract to supply services was breached, not whether the trader has, 
in addition to any breach of contract, caused any damage.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman