DRN-1693330
 
The complaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK Plc transferred a previously settled credit card debt to a 
debt collection agency. 
Background
In January 2020 Mr S received a letter from Barclays explaining it had transferred debt on 
his credit card to a debt collection agency. The letter said the agency would be in touch 
about a repayment plan. Mr S says he didnt recognise the credit card as being his. He 
contacted Barclays to find out what was going on.  
Eventually Barclays accepted it had made a mistake. It said the account had been settled a 
few years earlier but its records hadnt been updated correctly. It said there had been no 
detriment to his credit file or other account with Barclays. It said the debt had been recalled 
from the debt collector and no further action would be taken. 
Barclays acknowledged Mr S had received poor customer service during his attempt to sort 
the issue out  including making multiple calls and not receiving agreed call backs.  It offered 
Mr S £250 compensation. He feels that isnt enough to recognise the time he put into sorting 
the matter out. Barclays didnt agree to pay him any extra. So he came to this service. 
Our Investigator felt £250 was enough to recognise what had gone wrong and its impact on 
Mr S. So he didnt recommend Barclays pay any extra or do anything differently. Mr S didnt 
accept that. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not making Barclays 
pay Mr S any extra or do anything differently.
Barclays has admitted its mistake. So I dont need to consider what went wrong. I just need 
to decide if Barclays has done enough to put things right. 
The account has been recalled from the debt collecting agency. Its confirmed that in writing 
to Mr S. Barclays says his credit file and existing account with it is unaffected. Ive no reason 
not to accept that. So theres nothing more to do there.
Mr S wants Barclays to pay him about £1,000 compensation. He says thats to make up for 
two days of lost work. But I dont agree that would be reasonable. I can see this matter 
caused Mr S both distress and inconvenience. He received some letters from Barclays and 
debt collectors incorrectly saying he owed money and would be required to pay it back. It 
seems he was worried he might have been the victim of fraud. 
I can understand why that would be distressing and why it would cause him to treat the issue 
as a priority. I accept it took him some time and effort to get to the bottom of. But Im not persuaded it was necessary or proportionate to spend full two working days, or the 
equivalent, on the issue. 
I think Barclays offer of £250 is a reasonable amount to recognise the distress and 
inconvenience of its mistakes. So Im not going to require it to pay any extra or do anything 
differently.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not requiring Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr S any extra 
compensation or do anything differently. Its offered him £250. Thats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances. So my final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr S £250 
compensation if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman