DRN-2762119
The complaint
Mr B complains that Scottish Widows Limited didnt tell him he could keep his money in a 
Control Account within its Retirement Account. He also says Scottish Widows literature for 
its Retirement Account is misleading.
What happened
In 2019 Mr B took a tax-free lump sum from his pension fund. He wanted to invest the 
remaining fund in an interest-bearing account, but Scottish Widows said he had to invest it in 
an investment fund. Mr B invested the money in two low risk funds.
In 2020 Mr B wanted to take another lump sum, and this time Scottish Widows told him 
about a Control Account within the Retirement Account. It said he could keep his money 
there. The account paid a minimal amount of interest and was subject to charges. 
Mr B said if hed known about the control account in 2019 he wouldve put his money there 
from the outset. He said he wanted the certainty of knowing how much he would pay in 
charges, rather then the uncertainty of not knowing whether his fund would increase or 
decrease in value.
Mr B said the literature for the Retirement Account didnt make it clear that customers could 
keep their money in the control account on a long-term basis.
When he first reviewed the complaint, our investigator wasnt persuaded that Scottish 
Widows had to include the control account as an investment option in its literature. That was 
because the account wasnt intended for long-term investment. 
But the investigator found that when Mr B told Scottish Widows how he wanted to invest in 
2020, Scottish Widows immediately gave him the option of investing in the control account. 
Mr B had given Scottish Widows the same information in 2019, so the investigator 
considered it wouldve been reasonable for the business to make the same option available 
to him at that point. The investigator said Scottish Widows should pay £100 compensation to 
Mr B.
Mr B agreed with the investigators conclusions, but Scottish Widows didnt. It said its 
discussions with Mr B in 2019 were to make him aware of his options at retirement in 
general terms. But it said it wouldnt have been appropriate for its adviser to refer to specific 
accounts or investment funds at that stage. 
Scottish Widows didnt consider it was reasonable for it to pay compensation. It said 
referring customers to the control account for investment could lead to complaints about the 
impact of charges on account deposits. 
The investigator accepted that it wasnt appropriate for Scottish Widows to discuss the 
control account with Mr B when he was in contact with it in 2019. So the investigator no 
longer considered Scottish Widows had to pay compensation to Mr B.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators conclusions, and maintained that Scottish Widows 
shouldve made him aware of the control account from the outset. He also said Scottish 
Widows should make it clear that the control account isnt restricted to short-term use. Mr B 
didnt consider hed been treated fairly by Scottish Widows, and asked for his complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B told Scottish Widows in 2020 that he wanted to keep his money in an interest-bearing 
account, and at that point Scottish Widows referred him to the control account. Mr B had told 
Scottish Widows the same thing in 2019, so I can see why he might consider the business 
shouldve given him the same information about the control account then.
But I accept that the purpose of the 2019 discussion was to establish the Retirement 
Account, and to make Mr B aware of his options in general terms. The account was set up 
on a non-advised basis, which meant Scottish Widows couldnt give Mr B tailored advice 
about investments that were suitable for him.
Scottish Widows told Mr B he had to invest in an investment fund within the Retirement 
Account, and that he could switch funds once the Retirement Account was established. 
Scottish Widows also made Mr B aware that he could shop around elsewhere if the 
Retirement Account wasnt suitable for his needs.
So from what Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded Scottish Widows shouldve made 
specific reference to the control account when Mr B contacted it in 2019. Im satisfied that 
Scottish Widows provided enough information to make him aware that the account was 
available within the Retirement Account, although I realise Mr B considers that information  
is misleading. Ive set out my conclusions about that below.  
Mr B considers Scottish Widows literature should make it clear that the account is available 
for long term use. Instead, the Retirement Account literature says the control account can be 
used to hold cash balances in the short term.
Given Mr Bs investment objectives, I can see why he might think Scottish Widows literature 
should be clearer. But Im mindful that the control account pays minimal interest, and is 
subject to charges. So for most customers, theyre unlikely to see any gain on the money 
kept in the account. Its for this reason that the account is intended for short-term use - 
perhaps as a holding account pending further movement.
I accept there are likely to be some customers, like Mr B, who want the certainty of knowing 
what will happen to the value of their money while its in the control account. But I dont 
consider it would be fair or reasonable to expect Scottish Widows to promote the account to 
customers as a long-term investment option, when the opportunity for investment gain on the 
account is negligible. In fact, I consider its possible the business could be open to criticism if 
it did so.
That means Im not persuaded Scottish Widows treated Mr B unfairly in connection with the 
information it provided about the investment options available to him.
Having taken everything into account, there are no reasonable grounds on which I can uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
My final decision
On a fair and reasonable assessment of the circumstances here, my decision is that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman