DRN-3320963
The complaint
Mrs C has complained that Pinnacle Insurance Plc (Pinnacle) has rejected her claim under 
her pet insurance policy for veterinary treatment for her pet cat.
What happened
Mrs C has a pet insurance policy covering her cat which Ill refer to as L. Her policy started 
on 1 November 2021. L had been covered by Pinnacle for the previous policy year but Mrs C 
hadnt renewed this. She had instead taken out a new policy with Pinnacle as this was 
cheaper.
 
On 15 November 2021 Mrs C took L to her vet as she had a problem with her leg. The vets 
notes on that date say:
RH problem. Intermittently lame. RH 6 days
The claim form, which was completed by the veterinary practice, states:
When did the illness/injury begin: 15/11/21
Symptoms first noted by owner: 09/11/21 to 22/11/21
Treatment date: 15/11/21
Pinnacle rejected Mrs Cs claim for the cost of Ls treatment on the basis that the condition 
resulting in the veterinary treatment between 15 and 22 November had been noted on 9 
November, and Ls policy contained a 14-day exclusion period.
On the day Mrs C took out her policy she was sent a welcome pack. In the letter that 
accompanied this, a specific term of her policy was referred to. The letter stated`:
Important information about your policy
Your policy starts on 1st November 2021. Any illnesses that happen within 14 days, or 
any accidents that happen within 3 days, wont be covered.
Section 4A of the policy states:
We will not pay for:
 the cost of any treatment for any illness which occurs or shows symptoms within 14 days 
of the start date:
Mrs C argues that the symptoms actually began on 15 November and not 9 November. She 
believes that the vet had misunderstood her when she told him when the problem was first 
noticed because she was wearing a face covering because of Covid. She says she told the 
vet that Ls symptoms had been present since 6.00 that day, rather than 6 days ago.
Pinnacle checked this with the veterinary surgery and it confirmed that its notes were correct 
and couldnt be altered. Pinnacle confirmed it was unable to consider Mrs Cs claim.
Mrs C has also argued that shed been insured with Pinnacle the previous policy year but the 
renewal price shed been quoted was higher than the price available to a new customer on-
line. Shed therefore not renewed her existing policy and had taken out a new one.
Mrs C was unhappy with Pinnacles response to her complaint so she brought it to this 
service. Our investigator didnt think that Pinnacle had acted unfairly in correctly applying the 
terms of Mrs Cs policy and rejecting a claim arising from a condition that had shown 
symptoms within the 14-day exclusion period, based on what the vet had recorded.
Mrs C has asked that her complaint be referred to an ombudsman, so its been referred to 
me for a final decision from this service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
In settling disputes between businesses and customers, this service has to decide if a 
business has acted fairly and reasonably towards its customer. In Mrs Cs case, I therefore 
have to decide if Pinnacle has acted fairly towards her when assessing her claim. 
Ill first address Mrs Cs point about her policy being a continuation of cover shed had from 
Pinnacle the previous year.
Mrs C hadnt renewed this policy but had instead take out a new one. Pinnacle has said that 
Mrs C was advised at the time of renewal that with a new policy there may be an exclusion 
period at the start of the policy - a period where she could not make a claim. She went 
through a brand-new sales process, with all the standard notifications regarding pre-existing 
conditions and exclusion periods. Had she taken out insurance elsewhere its likely that an 
exclusion period would also have applied. Mrs C should therefore have been aware of the 
implications of taking out a new policy rather than renewing her existing one.
I therefore dont consider that Pinnacle has acted unfairly in assessing her claim in 
accordance with the terms of her new policy.
These terms include the exclusion for claims arising from illness or injury where symptoms 
are shown within 14 days of the policy start date. The success of Mrs Cs claim therefore 
rests on the date upon which Ls symptoms were first noted. Mrs C says they were noted at 
6.00am on 15 November  just outside the exclusion period. The vet has recorded that Mrs 
C said they were noted six days before  inside the exclusion period.
Im not in a position to say whether or not the vet correctly or incorrectly recorded what Mrs 
C said on 15 November. But I can say that I dont consider that Pinnacle has acted unfairly 
in making its decision whether to accept or reject Mrs Cs claim on the evidence of what the 
vet recorded in his notes of the consultation. I consider that this is supported by the 
verification that Pinnacle sought from the vet that his records were accurate. It received 
written confirmation that they were and would not be amended.
So whilst I can appreciate Mrs Cs upset that Pinnacle is preferring what the vet has 
recorded over what Mrs C says she said, I cant say that Pinnacle has acted unreasonably in 
doing so. Theres no reason why the vets professional records, which have been confirmed 
to be correct, should not be relied upon. Put another way, I consider it wouldve been unreasonable for Pinnacle to have ignored professional clinical records, confirmed by the vet 
to be correct, unless there were clear grounds for doing so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman