DRN-3650171
The complaint
Mr O complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc, trading as Hitachi Personal Finance 
(Hitachi) provided him with credit he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Hitachi approved an £11,000 loan for Mr O in December 2021. He was to make 48 monthly 
repayments of £307.75.
Mr O says the loan wasnt affordable for him.
Hitachi disagree. They say they completed reasonable and proportionate checks. They 
reviewed credit file information, verified his salary, and considered his likely expenditure but 
they didnt find anything that would suggest Mr O couldnt afford the loan,
Our investigator disagreed. She thought the loan was unaffordable for Mr O and she 
suggested Hitachi returned interest and charges theyd made on it in order to resolve 
matters. 
Hitachi didnt respond to the investigators view, but Mr O did. He didnt agree with it as he 
thought Hitachi should also refund the capital.
The decision has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable here. 
I dont think Hitachi completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the 
loan. Whilst they took note of Mr Os income and also considered what his likely expenditure 
would be. I think there was evidence on his credit file that warranted further investigation 
before they could assure themselves that the lending was affordable.
I say that because the credit file showed 56 credit searches within the last three months and 
also suggested Mr O was relying on pay day loans. I think that information should have 
alerted Hitachi to the potential that he was experiencing financial difficulties. 
I dont think that information alone would have suggested that the loan was unaffordable, but 
I do think Hitachi should have gathered more information to clarify whether Mr O could afford 
repayments sustainably before they lent to him.
I think it would have been proportionate for Hitachi to have found out more about Mr Os 
committed expenditure, such as his actual living costs. I cant be sure exactly what they 
would have found out if they had explored further. In the absence of anything else, I think it 
would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Mr Os bank 
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed. 
Ive reviewed bank statements from the account I think its likely Hitachi would have 
reviewed; the one Mr Os salary was paid into. I think those statements would have raised 
further questions. It would have been clear that Mr Os income was substantially lower than 
the £101,000 he'd claimed on his loan application. And, as there were payments being made 
to another account under admin, and those payments were significantly higher than Mr Os 
income, I think Hitachi would have wanted to review statements from that account too. 
Those statements demonstrated that Mr O was spending significantly more than his salary 
on gambling and, in those circumstances, I dont think the loan could be said to be affordable 
as Mr O was clearly relying on credit to support that gambling. Hitachi were therefore 
irresponsible to advance the credit.
Putting things right
Mr O says Hitachi should refund everything he paid towards the agreement, but I dont 
agree. I understand Mr Os explanation that other companies rejected his credit applications 
because of his extensive gambling, but Hitachi didnt, and have therefore lent irresponsibly. 
So, they shouldnt benefit from those transactions and should return any charges and 
interest they have gained. But Mr O has benefitted from the capital and it wouldnt be fair to 
refund that too.
While I think its fair that Mr Os credit file is an accurate reflection of his financial history, I 
dont think its fair that he should be disadvantaged by Hitachis decision to lend to him 
irresponsibly. Therefore, I think Hitachi should remove any negative information they have 
recorded on Mr Os credit file once hes repaid the capital.
Hitachi should:
Remove all interest, fees, and charges from the balance on the loan, and treat any 
repayments made by Mr O as though they had been repayments of the principal. If 
this results in Mr O having made overpayments then they should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
If there is still an outstanding balance once interest, fees and charges have been 
removed then Hitachi should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr O. 
Once the capital has been repaid, Hitachi should remove any adverse information 
recorded on Mr Os credit file in relation to this loan. 
It seems this loan is still outstanding, and the debt hasnt been sold. But, if Im wrong about 
that and the debt has been sold, Hitachi should buy back the debt or liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve the results outlined above.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and tell Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc to put things right in the manner 
Ive set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman