DRN-3370084
The complaint
Mr S complains about Nationwide Building Society and the difficulties he faced when 
attempting to complete an international transfer.
What happened
Mr S holds an account with Nationwide. On 2 January 2021, Mr S attempted to transfer 
£65,999.77 out of this account to a family member who lived oversees. But this transfer was 
unable to be completed and it was returned to Mr S account. But as the payment had been 
sent abroad, Mr S suffered a loss of £1,947.60 due to the exchange rate.
So, Mr S attempted the transfer again on 11 February, this time for the value of £64,737.10. 
But again, the transfer was unable to be completed. So, the payment was returned, and Mr 
S lost another £1,864.82 due to the exchange rate. Mr S was unhappy about this, so he 
raised a complaint.
Mr S didnt think Nationwides online payment screens made it reasonably clear what 
information he needed to input, and where, when an intermediary bank was being used. And 
he didnt think Nationwide had done enough to explain why the first payment had been 
returned and what he needed to change when he made the second payment. So, he wanted 
Nationwide to refund him the amount hed lost due to the impact of the exchange rate when 
the payments had been returned, as well as the transaction fees.
Nationwide responded and didnt agree. They explained the payments had been returned by 
the overseas intermediary bank, who Ill refer to as M. They didnt think they were 
responsible for Ms decision to return the payments and so, they didnt think they should 
cover Mr S losses. Because of this, they didnt offer to do anything more. Mr S remained 
unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He was satisfied it was Ms 
decision to return the payment to Nationwide. So, he didnt think he could hold Nationwide 
responsible for this. He recognised Mr S comments about Nationwides online system, and 
Mr S belief it didnt make clear where Ms details needed to be inputted, but he didnt think 
this was something we could ask Nationwide to change. He explained it was Nationwides 
decision, as part of their business process, as to how their online payment system was laid 
out and structured. And our service is unable to ask Nationwide to make changes to a 
business process. So, he didnt think Nationwide needed to do anything more.
Mr S didnt agree and he provided information from M which explained they were unable to 
process the payment and transfer it on to Mr S family member was down to the information 
Mr S had included in the IBAN/Account number section of Nationwides form. And Mr S 
didnt think Nationwides system made it reasonably clear which IBAN/Account number he 
needed to place in this box when an intermediary bank was involved. So, he maintained his 
belief that Nationwide were liable for the error and the financial losses that arose because of 
this. As Mr S didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr S. Its not in dispute that 
Mr S has suffered a financial loss due to the failed overseas transfers, as the payment 
amounts have suffered due to the exchange rate when theyve been sent back. And as Mr S 
made these payments through Nationwides online service, I can understand why hed hold 
Nationwide responsible. But for me to say Nationwide should cover the losses Mr S has 
incurred, Id need to be satisfied these losses have arisen from an error that Nationwide are 
solely responsible for. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Nationwide have stated it was M who returned the payment. And Ive seen evidence that 
shows M accepting this fact. As this isnt in dispute, I dont intend to discuss this further.
Instead, as this complaint is about Nationwide, Ive considered the service Nationwide 
provided to Mr S, and the actions they took, when they processed Mr S transfer.
First, Ive ensured that when Nationwide sent the transfer to M, the information they sent 
was the same as the information inputted by Mr S. And I can see that it was. So, I dont think 
they made any mistake when processing the transfer as they acted as I wouldve expected 
them to do.
But Im aware this isnt the basis of Mr S complaint. Mr S himself has accepted he didnt 
input Ms details in the IBAN/Account number box, which is what M says he needed to do in 
order for the payment to be processed automatically and sent to his family members 
receiving bank. 
Instead, Mr S believes his failure to enter the information correctly was a direct result of 
Nationwides online system and the lack of clarity around what information needed to be 
included, and where, when an intermediary bank such as M was involved.
Ive considered the screenshots Mr S has sent, showing the transaction form he wouldve 
seen when he made the transfers. And I cant see there was any clear information about 
where to input an intermediary banks details. So, I can understand why Mr S would be 
unsure how to complete the form correctly. But, crucially, I think Mr S was aware the 
payment needed to be sent to M before his family member could receive the funds. So, 
when Mr S realised he was unsure how to process the transaction correctly, I wouldve 
expected him to seek clarity about this with Nationwide. But I cant see that he did.
So, I dont think Nationwide were given the opportunity to assist Mr S in making the 
transaction and ensuring it was correct. While I appreciate why Mr S believes Nationwides 
online system should be made clearer, this isnt something Id be able to direct Nationwide to 
do. It is Nationwides own business decision to make regarding how to layout the transfer 
form online. This decision is made as part of Nationwides business process, which our 
service is unable to comment on or direct them to change.
When Mr S was making the transfer, I think he had a responsibility to ensure the information 
he was providing, and where this information was located, was correct. And while I do recognise Mr S inputted this to the best of his ability, I dont think this means Nationwide 
should be responsible for the fact M was unable to process the information at their end. 
Mr S had commented on the difficulties this will cause other customers in similar situations. 
But my decision is focused solely on his individual situation. And even if it didnt, I cant be 
sure that other intermediary banks dont have a system that allows them to process transfers 
with information provided in different formats. In this situation, it was M who decided they 
didnt receive the information in a way that allowed it to be processed by them. I dont think 
its fair for me to expect Nationwide to have pre-empted this before the transfer was 
attempted. Because of this, I dont think it would be fair to say they should cover the financial 
loss from the first transaction.
And Ive not seen any evidence that shows Mr S confirmed with Nationwide exactly what 
information he needed to provide and where before he made the second transaction. Nor 
can I see he queried this with M before a second transaction was attempted. Mr S himself 
has stated the second transaction was sent hopefully, in the hope a minor change had 
resolved the issue. At this point, I think Mr S wouldve been reasonably aware that it was 
likely hed incur a loss if the form wasnt completely correctly. So, I wouldve expect Mr S to 
ensure it was correct before it was sent. And I dont think he did.
I recognise Mr S thinks Nationwide couldve done more to assist this and has explained they 
didnt contact him to explain why the transfer had failed the first time. But I dont think 
Nationwide wouldve known why M had decided to send the funds back, as it was Ms own 
decision to do so. So, I dont think Nationwide wouldve ever been able to provide this. From 
what Ive seen, Nationwide were only able to confirm with their own intermediary bank that M 
had returned the payments but there was no explanation as to why.
So, while I appreciate why Mr S believes Nationwide are liable for the losses he incurred due 
to the two failed transfers, I dont think I can fairly say that is the case. It was Ms decision to 
return the payment because Mr S hadnt inputted the correct account information in the 
correct box. Nationwide attempted the transfer, providing the information in exactly the way 
Mr S had inputted it. So, I cant see that Nationwide has made a mistake that led to failure of 
the payments and because of this, I dont think Nationwide need to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman