DRN-3473133
The complaint
Mr D complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC failed to provide him with a replacement debit card 
when his old debit card expired.
What happened
Mr Ds holds an Al Rayan account on which he was issued with a debit card. The debit card 
expired in August 2021. But a replacement card wasnt automatically sent.
Mr D says he didnt realise his card had expired until he was looking to invest some money. 
So, he complained to Al Rayan.  
Al Rayan says Mr D hadnt used his debit card for over 12 months before it expired. And in 
these circumstances its internal procedure is not to automatically send a replacement. 
Mr D thought this was unfair as this information is not provided in the terms and conditions of 
the account. So, he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked in it, but he didnt think Al Rayan had done anything wrong. 
Mr D didnt agree. He pointed out that he had used the account within the last 12 months. 
The investigator considered what Mr D had said, but he didnt think it changed the outcome 
he had reached. He explained the transactions on Mr Ds account werent debit card 
transactions. And that Al Rayans internal policy applied to the debit card itself not being 
used in the 12 months before it expired.  
Mr D still didnt agree. He said - in summary, his account was active, and Al Rayan should 
have anticipated that he may have needed to access his funds using the debit card. So, he 
thought Al Rayans systems were flawed. He felt a fair and reasonable outcome would be for 
Al Rayan to pay him £100 compensation. 
The investigator contacted Al Rayan to ask if it would offer the compensation Mr D was 
looking for. But it didnt agree to offer compensation as it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong. 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has come to me for a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has made several detailed points, which I have read and considered. I hope the fact 
that I do not respond in similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. As an informal 
dispute resolution service, we reach a fair and reasonable outcome with the minimum of 
formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to every point made, but to 
concentrate on the crux of the issue. Having done so, Im not going to require Al Rayan to do 
anything further. I know Mr D will be disappointed by my decision, so Ill explain why.
Ive thought about what Al Rayan has said about why it has a policy not to automatically 
replace an expired debit card when it hasnt been used for more than 12 months. Having 
done so, like the investigator, Im satisfied that its reasonable for it to have such a policy. 
The policy appears to be based on legitimate and general concerns. 
And, here, although Mr D did make transactions on the account, there is no dispute that he 
didnt use the debit card for over 12 months. So, the policy was applied correctly. 
Mr D says Al Rayans policy prevented him from accessing funds in his account when he 
needed to. But Ive not seen anything to suggest Al Rayan closed Mr Ds account or 
removed any of the other services associated with it. So, Im not persuaded its decision not 
to automatically renew his debit card prevented Mr D from accessing the funds in his 
account in other ways such as using online or telephone banking to make the transaction he 
wanted to make. 
Ultimately, I have to decide whether Al Rayan did anything wrong when it didnt 
automatically send a new debit card to Mr D. And, given the above, I dont consider it did. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman