DRN-2440351
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F have complained about the information given to them by Jade Stanley Ltd who 
arranged their travel insurance.
 
What happened
Mr F bought two single trip travel insurance policies (one of which was a top up policy) for a 
holiday via Jade Stanley. But the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19. 
Mr F says he was told that if he needed to cancel the policies, he would receive his full 
premiums minus a £10 administration fee. But when he emailed Jade Stanley to cancel the 
insurance, he wasnt given a full refund. He has raised separate complaints about the refund 
of premiums with the underwriters. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it as there was insufficient 
evidence that Mr F had been told he would receive a full refund.
Mr F disagreed and said he was given this information during a phone call with Jade Stanley 
and those calls should still be available. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above, the complaints about the refunds have been dealt with separately against 
the underwriters. And so my decision relates solely to the information given to Mr F by Jade 
Stanley when he purchased the policies. 
Mr F says he was told he would receive a full refund of his premiums if he had to cancel his 
holiday minus a £10 administration charge, and that this advice was given to him over the 
telephone. Jade Stanley has confirmed there are no call recordings available. And so Ive 
considered the surrounding evidence.
In an email dated 12 May 2020 Jade Stanley said:
I can confirm the administration feeis £10.
The policy terms and conditions for each of the policies confirm there is a 14-day cooling off 
period in which Mr F would receive a full refund. The main policy goes on to explain that if Mr 
F hasnt travelled and isnt claiming on the policy, he would be given a 50% refund of the 
total premium paid. The top up policy says there is no right to a refund once the 14 days has 
expired, if Mr F cancels the policy.
Jade Stanley has said Mr F has now been offered a 50% refund of premiums by both 
insurers.  
Having considered all of the above information, Im satisfied that the policy terms and 
conditions set out the amount of refund Mr F would get if he cancelled his policy outside of 
the 14-day cooling off period. Unfortunately, the call recordings of when Mr F spoke to Jade 
Stanley arent available for me to listen to and so I have to base my decision on the evidence 
I do have. 
Once Mr F had received his policy documents, he would have seen that he wouldnt get a 
full refund if he cancelled. Jade Stanley did confirm there was a £10 administration charge 
but that doesnt necessarily mean that a full refund would be given, minus the charge. Many 
policies charge a fee for cancellation and then calculate a proportionate refund based on the 
terms of the policy. 
I appreciate Mr F will be disappointed with my decision. But there is insufficient evidence to 
show that he was given incorrect information by Jade Stanley. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman