DRN-3652395
The complaint
Mr M complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund two payments he made from his bank 
account.
Whats happened?
Mr M says he agreed to purchase seven PlayStations for a price of £2,700 from a trusted 
seller he had previously successfully transacted with. He says he has mutual contacts with 
the seller and met him in person when he hand-delivered goods hed purchased to his 
address.
Mr M made two deposit payments to the seller by bank transfer  he paid £550 on                
4 December 2020 and £500 on 7 December 2020 (the payments). But the seller said they 
never received the PlayStations from their stockist and they eventually cancelled Mr Ms 
order without refunding the payments. Initially, the seller told Mr M they would refund him 
when they received a refund from their stockist, then they said their bank account was frozen 
so they couldnt refund Mr M.
Mr M contacted Monzo for help on 16 December 2020. Monzo contacted the receiving bank 
on the same day, but it was advised that none of Mr Ms funds remained in the beneficiary 
account to recover. Monzo has said that it wont refund Mr M because this matter is a civil 
dispute, and he didnt take enough steps to check what he was paying for.
Mr M referred a complaint about Monzo to this Service, and our investigator upheld his 
complaint. But Monzo didnt agree with our investigator and Mr Ms complaint was passed to 
me to decide.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 12 July 2022. Ill set out my findings below.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having looked at everything, I can see no basis on which I can fairly require Monzo to refund 
the payments. I realise this will be disappointing news for Mr M, and it isnt the outcome hell 
be hoping for, but Ill explain my reasoning below.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a firm is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account.
When Monzo made the payments, it was complying with Mr Ms instructions to pay the 
seller, as it is obliged to do. And considering the relatively low value of the payments, as well 
as the usual activity on Mr Ms accounts, I wouldnt have expected Monzo to intervene with 
the payments in any way. So, I dont think Monzo acted incorrectly by making the payments 
and it wouldnt be fair to ask it to refund them on this basis. Ive considered whether Monzo 
should refund the payments for any other reason, but I dont think it should.
Monzo isnt yet a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM Code), but its allowed us to apply the CRM Codes principles to complaints 
we consider against it which meet the relevant criteria.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
has been the victim of an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam. But the CRM Code is 
quite explicit that it doesnt apply to all APPs. It says:
DS2(2) This Code does not apply to:
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier.
I understand why Mr M feels he has been scammed, but from what Ive seen, I dont think 
I can fairly say that the situation Mr M finds himself in is a scam, although I accept and 
acknowledge that he hasnt received the goods he paid for. I think the payments form part of 
a civil dispute between Mr M and the seller. I say this because the seller is someone Mr M 
knows and has met in person (its unusual for fraudsters to meet their victims face-to-face) 
and the seller has previously successfully fulfilled orders Mr M has placed. In the 
circumstances, I dont think its likely that the seller was operating a scam, or that they 
intended to defraud Mr M from the outset  by taking his money with no intention of 
supplying the goods he desired  and I havent seen any persuasive evidence to support 
this. I understand that Mr Ms order wasnt fulfilled in the end, but I think its most likely, 
looking at everything, that the seller intended to fulfil his order when it was placed  and this 
isnt the same thing as a fraudster pretending to have goods to sell in order to trick victims 
into parting with their money with no intention of fulfilling their order.
Mr M has said that the police are investigating a criminal case against the seller and I accept 
that this may be true, particularly as the money he paid the seller hasnt been returned to 
him. But Im not persuaded it follows that the seller never intended to provide the goods 
Mr M paid for and, as Ive set out above, I dont think thats likely.
Overall, Im satisfied that the available evidence shows Mr M paid a legitimate business for 
an order which unfortunately wasnt fulfilled or refunded. As such, I dont think Monzo is 
responsible for reimbursing Mr M because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Mr M has my sympathies. Hes found himself in an unenviable situation. But overall, Im not 
satisfied that there has been a bank error in this case. I cant see any fair or reasonable 
grounds on which I could say that Monzo should bear the responsibility of Mr Ms loss.
For the reasons Ive explained, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Neither Mr M nor Monzo responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence for me to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman