DRN-3937073
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank UK Plc registered a fraud marker at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database and closed his account. He doesnt think its treated him fairly. Hed like 
Barclays to compensate him for the difficulties this caused.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 9 January 2023, upholding the 
complaint in part. I invited both parties to let me have any comments by the deadline of 30 
January 2023. A copy of my provisional decision is below. 
Mr C held a bank account with Barclays and in June 2021, the bank placed a block on the 
account following some activity on it. Mr C contacted Barclays about this  it told him about 
the blocks and said that it would take up to five working days for it to investigate. It said he 
could still access money in the meantime from his wages in the account, but hed need to 
visit a branch with identification. 
Mr C was able to withdraw money from a branch, but the account remained blocked for 
several weeks. He contacted Barclays regularly about this to understand why there was a 
delay in unblocking the account. However, he didnt get any information back. In September 
2021, Barclays took the decision to close the account immediately and wrote to Mr C to tell 
him. 
Mr C didnt think Barclays had treated him fairly and complained. Barclays accepted it had 
taken too long to deal with the blocks and recognised this had caused inconvenience. It paid 
Mr C £245 to reflect the impact. But in relation to closing the account it didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. 
Mr C later discovered Barclays had also loaded a marker against him with CIFAS, which was 
preventing him from opening an account with another provider. He referred this issue to us, 
along with his concerns about Barclays' treatment of him once it had blocked the account. 
One of our investigators investigated the complaint. Initially she concluded Barclays offer to 
pay £245 for the delays in dealing with the blocks on the account was fair. She said Barclays 
was entitled to close the account without providing a reason and it had told us that it hadnt 
loaded anything with CIFAS. 
Mr C said this wasnt correct. He provided a copy of the report hed received from CIFAS 
which showed Barclays had loaded information against him. The investigator put this to 
Barclays who noted that the entry had been made almost six months after the blocks had 
been triggered and thats why it didnt initially pick up on this when it first reviewed the 
complaint. It told our investigator that it would now arrange to remove the marker as it didnt 
believe it should have recorded it as late as it did. 
Mr C didnt think this went far enough. He said that because of the entry hed been unable to 
get a bank account. Instead hed had to arrange to have money paid into his mothers 
account which was inconvenient. He added that the impact went farther; hed missed 
payments that were due, been declined for loans and couldnt run a business through an 
online market trading site. 
Our investigator reviewed matters and recommended Barclays pay Mr C £250 in addition to 
the £245 it had already paid. She accepted there had been an error with the entry, which 
had caused Mr C an element of distress and inconvenience. But she didnt think the 
evidence showed Mr C had been unable to get a bank account solely as a result of the entry 
Barclays had made, as she noted another provider had recorded something on his CIFAS 
records too. She also reviewed a copy of Mr Cs credit file and noted that Mr C had applied 
for a loan and been rejected before Barclays had recorded its information, which she felt 
supported her conclusions. 
Barclays agreed to pay £250. However, Mr C asked that his complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Blocks on the account 
Barclays had already accepted that it took too long to deal with the blocks on Mr Cs 
account. Indeed, to recognise this, it said sorry and paid him £245 to cover the distress and 
inconvenience caused. Ive thought about the impact this had on Mr C, and while I 
understand it would have been frustrating not to have any information after calling repeatedly 
and be put to additional inconvenience in having to continue to attend a branch to access 
funds, ultimately I consider the amount of compensation Barclays paid here reflects the 
difficulties this caused. So, I dont think it needs to do any more in relation to this particular 
issue. 
Loading with CIFAS 
For Barclays to load the type of marker it did with CIFAS there must be reasonable grounds 
for it to think that a fraud or financial crime has been committed and the evidence must be 
clear, relevant, and rigorous. Barclays has explained why it was concerned about some 
activity on the account that triggered the blocks but beyond that it hasnt offered any 
substantive evidence (and our investigator invited it to) to meet the standard thats required 
and I cant see it questioned Mr C about the activity either, which is what CIFASs guidance 
to its members suggests it do. Having regard for this, its difficult for me to conclude that it 
was justified in loading the marker. But I also appreciate things have moved on as Barclays 
has already removed the marker due to the time when it was loaded. So, I dont think there 
is much to be gained by commenting on this point beyond considering the problems this 
caused Mr C. And deciding whether what Barclays has offered to do fairly resolves the 
complaint. 
I dont doubt that Barclays information on CIFAS would have caused Mr C some difficulties 
in getting facilities elsewhere and getting the loading removed. Though guidance to financial 
businesses is that they shouldnt simply reject an application  they should carry out further 
investigation to understand the accuracy of the information. But in addition to the loading by 
Barclays there was an adverse entry with CIFAS from another financial business that was 
there from before and the credit report Mr C has provided also shows a court judgment 
against him for a debt. Faced with this, I dont think I can reasonably conclude Barclays 
information is solely responsible for Mr C not getting facilities. There is clearly other information that would also carry weight in any decision to offer account facilities and/or 
provide credit. So overall, I dont agree its responsible for everything, including the financial 
losses claimed.
 
Account closure 
A bank is entitled to end its banking relationship with a customer and in some limited 
circumstances it can do so immediately. Here Barclays decided to close Mr Cs account on 9 
September  it did so on 14 September. So effectively immediately. But as referenced above 
with the CIFAS marker I dont think concerns about some of the account activity in isolation 
was reasonable to justify the immediate closure - not without anything more compelling. So, I 
think Barclays ought to have given Mr C the contractual notice under the account terms and 
conditions (if it wished to close the account). The terms say that this should be two months.
 
I understand from the account records Mr C was able to get any money that was left in his 
account (it wasnt retained by Barclays) but I can appreciate the immediate closure would 
have left him in a difficult position as theres nothing to suggest he had another account 
elsewhere. Indeed, hes told us he had to have the help of his mother. 
Barclays has already agreed to pay £250 and I think thats reasonable for the impact 
resulting from loading the marker. However, when weighing this up against the presence of 
other adverse information and the distress and inconvenienced caused by the immediate 
closure of the account, I consider it should increase this by another £200. As Mr C wouldve 
needed to act quickly to notify the parties sending him payments, debiting payments and 
make alternative arrangements - all resulting in a level of distress and inconvenience. 
Collectively I think £450 reflects the impact of the difficulties caused. 
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr C £450 to settle this 
complaint. This is in addition to the £245 it has previously paid him for the time taken to deal 
with the blocks on the account.
Barclays responded to say that it accepted my provisional decision. However, Mr C didnt 
feel the compensation was enough for the struggles hed faced. Hed said hed waited 
patiently for over a year for a resolution. He said he intended to respond further and before 
the deadline. 
Mr C didnt respond further on or before the deadline. But provided additional information 
afterwards. This was in the form of screen shots from an online market trading site and of a 
cryptocurrency account. He emailed to say the following  in summary:
- He hadnt been able to withdraw from or deposit funds into his cryptocurrency 
account when it was most beneficial. He wasnt saying this was Barclays fault but 
access did affect his ability to withdraw any profits. 
- Due to the blocks, lack of access, the marker and time taken to resolve the 
complaint, hed lost several opportunities to make a profit. 
- He hadnt been able to update his details with the online market trading site for 
around a year as he didnt have an account that he could link. And he had thousands 
of pounds worth of stock which he couldnt sell. 
- He wanted compensation from Barclays that fairly reflected this. The case has been returned to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The initial offer of compensation (£245) for the time taken to deal with the block on the 
account does in my opinion fairly recognised the distress and inconvenience caused at the 
time. Mr C was still able to withdraw funds (and receive funds into the account) albeit it 
caused him some difficulties in having to attend a branch. But that was still possible. 
Barclays recorded the CIFAS marker in December 2021  it was eventually removed after 
six months. While I recognise it made a mistake, the impact Mr Cs describes of that loading 
cannot in my view be fully attributable to the bank. Because there was other adverse 
information recorded against him, which would have had an influence. Thinking about this, I 
think the £250 fairly reflects the impact of its mistake. 
I said Barclays should have given Mr C two-months notice before closing his account, but I 
must stress that it was still entitled to end the relationship because the account terms 
allowed for it.  In not giving appropriate notice, I have accepted this would have put Mr C in a 
difficult position initially. I explained in my provisional decision why I considered a further 
payment of £200 was reasonable in the circumstances for that initial period. 
I note Mr C says he feels the compensation isnt enough for the struggles hes faced, and 
hes provided information. But even if it had given appropriate notice this wouldnt have 
resulted in a change to his situation in getting an account because of the other information 
recorded against him and the fact Barclays is entitled to decide if it doesnt wish to provide 
him with a bank account. 
Finally, in terms of the crypto currency account and other facilities, Ive not seen anything 
persuasive to say Mr C wouldve removed his money straight away other than what he says, 
and that simply isnt enough to persuade me. I realise Mr C feels strongly about what 
happened and I have considered all that he has said and provided, including the screen 
shots and further email. But having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision, which I fully adopt as part of this final decision and anything else I have said here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK Plc should pay Mr C £450 to settle this complaint. 
This is in addition to the £245 it has previously and separately paid him for the time taken to 
deal with the blocks on the account. Should Mr C wish to accept this he should provide his 
bank account details. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Sarita Taylor
Ombudsman