Page 1 of 7The complaint
Mr K is unhappy The Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS) has declined to offer him a refund after 
he was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
In January 2020, Mr K met someone, who we now know to be a scammer, on a social 
networking site and they began to share messages. Mr K was led to believe that the woman 
wanted to start a friendship with him but, after a couple of days, she started to ask for 
money.
The scammer told Mr K that she was a model travelling abroad. To begin with she asked for 
money for food and hotel rooms but this is escalated when she told Mr K that she had been 
mugged and all her belongings had been stolen  including her travel documentation. The 
scammer asked Mr K for help - telling him she was due a large inheritance that she would 
use to pay him back. Mr K says the scammer was able to provide him with documentation to 
evidence this and so he believed what she was telling him.  
Mr K made a number of payments to the scammer but around March 2020, after some 
pressure, he finally told his family about what had been going on. At this point, he realised 
hed been scammed and contacted RBS. RBS returned some of Mr Ks funds to him. At the 
same time, Mr K also spoke to the Police and Action Fraud and he was referred to victim 
support.
Mr K said he avoided social media for months after the scam. However, hes said he 
remained under the spell of the scammer and that he was struggling with his mental health. 
A couple of months after he had made the first set of payments, he logged back into his 
social networking profile and it was at this point that he saw he had received further 
messages.  
Mr K and the scammer began talking again and once more she started to ask for money. Mr 
K says he initially declined to make any further payments and told her she would need to ask 
someone else, but the scammer told him there was no one else who could help her. She 
reiterated that she would pay him back from her inheritance and asked him to pay for some 
hospital treatment and the release of her inheritance. Again, asking Mr K to send money to 
her solicitor. Mr K was sent the solicitors details and although he had some concerns that 
they may not have been who they said they were, he decided to contact RBS about a loan 
that would allow him to facilitate the payments the scammer had requested.
DRN-3310229Page 2 of 7Mr K says he called RBS and applied for a loan. He says he told RBS that he wanted to pay 
for some solicitors fees abroad, but RBS said they wouldnt lend him money for this reason. 
Mr K says RBS then told him to apply for a loan for home improvements instead as this 
would be more likely to be approved. So, several days later, he completed a further 
application and this time it was successful. Mr K then went on to transfer the money to the 
scammer. 
Between May and July 2020, Mr K sent 11 payments totalling just under £30,000. He 
continued to make payments until the end of July - when he was informed for the second 
time that he was making payments associated with a scam. At this point, he contacted RBS 
again. 
This time, RBS declined to offer him a refund on the basis that it had told him previously that 
the person he was speaking with was a scammer and he had chosen to continue to send 
further payments. It said it had provided Mr K with extensive advice about how these scams 
work before but he had chosen to continue making payments. For this reason, RBS believed 
Mr K should be held responsible for the second batch of payments, not RBS. 
Unhappy with RBSs response, Mr K brought his complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators looked into things  but they didnt uphold the complaint. The investigator 
acknowledged that the second set of payments shouldve stood out as concerning to RBS 
given that Mr K had previously fallen victim to a scam  they were similar to the first. 
However, he didnt think a conversation between RBS and Mr K wouldve stopped him 
making the payments at all. He pointed out that Mr K had already been told by various 
different organisations that he was being scammed by the person he was speaking with after 
the initial set of payments. The Police, Action Fraud and his own family had told him as 
much, but he had still continued to send further funds - going as far as to request a loan from 
the bank to continue making payments. For this reason, our investigator didnt think further 
action from RBS couldve prevented the payments now in question here. 
Mr K didnt agree, he said:
RBS were aware that hed already been the victim of a scam and so they should 
have been aware he was vulnerable. Given his recent history, the out of character 
loan applications and international payments should not have been processed 
without further questioning.
Both our investigator and RBS had distinguished the two sets of payments as two 
distinct scams, but the second set of payments were a continuation of the first. 
Our investigators opinion didnt recognise the impact and influence scammers have 
over their victims. Mr K said he was still under the spell of the scammer following the 
initial transactions and this is why he went on to make further payments. RBS should 
have known this was a common occurrence amongst scam victims and been more 
vigilant. 
Mr K asked our investigator to contact his therapist who could confirm that he was 
suffering from mental ill-health at the time.
Mr K said that RBS shouldve been put on notice that something was amiss when he 
applied for two loans, for the exact same amount, within days of each other. This 
should have raised concerns that he was continuing to be targeted. 
It was RBS call-handler who had told him to tell the bank the loan was actually for 
home improvements so he could ensure its approval. This showed that RBS were 
focused on ensuring a sale rather than questioning the unusual reason he had 
initially provided.
Mr K said that given his vulnerable position, it was inappropriate for RBS to have told 
him this and to approve the loan.  Page 3 of 7As an agreement was not reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision.
During my investigation, I asked RBS to provide me with some more information about the 
two loan applications Mr K had referred to and I also asked it to provide me with a copy of 
the call recordings that took place between Mr K and RBS where the purpose of the loan(s) 
was discussed.
RBS confirmed that only one loan application was processed on Mr Ks behalf  a loan for 
circa £12,000 for home improvements. It said there was no unsuccessful loan application 
prior to this loan being applied for. It did however provide me with a recording of a call where 
Mr K enquired about a potential loan to pay solicitors fees abroad. 
I listened to this recording and it was clear Mr K did enquire about a loan for this purpose but 
he was told it would not be approved and no application was processed on his behalf. There 
was no mention of Mr K applying for a loan for a different reason in order to get the funds he 
required.
I then asked Mr K about this conversation and he said that he believed the call recording 
may have been tampered with. However, he went on to say that the call-handler may have 
only mentioned that RBS generally accepted loan applications for things such as home 
improvements and he may have taken this as a recommendation to change the loan 
purpose. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr K feels so strongly that his money should be returned to him. But 
having thought very carefully about what hes told us happened at the time and RBSs 
actions, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold RBS liable for his losses 
and so I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why in more detail below.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider RBS ought fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud 
and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with 
than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to 
help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.Page 4 of 7So, in this case, I need to decide whether RBS acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr K when he transferred the funds now in question here to a scammer, 
or whether it should have done more than it did.
It is not in dispute that Mr K authorised the transfers himself. Because of this, RBS had 
an obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in which it should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as 
Ive explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice RBS should have been 
on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
As this complaint is in regard to the second set out transactions only, Ive first thought 
about whether these particular transfers should have been of concern to RBS. And, I 
think they should. RBS was aware that Mr K had previously been the victim of a scam 
that involved him sending large amounts of money abroad. It is well-known that prior 
victims may well be targeted again, and this second set of transactions, were similar to 
the first. They were of relatively high value and they were being sent abroad. Given Mr 
Ks prior history, Im satisfied that this should have given RBS some cause for concern. 
And so, Im satisfied RBS ought fairly and reasonably, and as a matter of good practice, 
to have done more here. I think it ought to have made enquiries about the purpose of, 
and the circumstances leading up to the payments before it processed them at Mr Ks 
request.
Because Im satisfied RBS should have questioned the payments before it processed 
them, I then have to consider whether any further intervention would have ultimately 
made a difference or not. 
I need to stress here that my role, in deciding this case, is to assess any mistake by a 
business, and to try to put the customer into the position they would have been in but for 
the mistake. We are not here to punish financial businesses  so the mere fact of a 
mistake is not enough to determine that a refund in full would now be due. I have to 
consider what I think is most likely the position Mr K would have been in if RBS had 
asked some further probing questions about the transfers he was attempting to make. 
It is impossible for me to say exactly how any conversation between Mr K and RBS 
would have unfolded. And so, I must base my decision on what I think is most likely to 
have happened had RBS intervened further. Ive done this by considering the usual 
types of questions I would have expected RBS to ask Mr K had they contacted him  
alongside what Mr K has told us about the circumstances that led to him making the 
transfers. 
Having done so, I am not persuaded that further intervention from RBS would have 
made a difference here. Im persuaded its most likely Mr K would have still gone ahead 
with the payments anyway, somehow. Ill explain why. 
I acknowledge what Mr K has said about not continuing with the payments had he been 
questioned further by RBS. But I also have to bear in mind that Mr K is saying this now, 
with the benefit of hindsight. Im not persuaded that further questioning or information 
from RBS would have prevented Mr K from continuing to make these payments at the 
time  even if RBS identified that the payments were likely being made as a continuation 
of the scam it thought had been uncovered previously. 
I say this because, RBS had already told Mr K, less than six months before, that the 
person he was speaking with was a scammer and this had been supported by the Police 
and Action Fraud. And so, its difficult for me to see what additional information couldve Page 5 of 7been provided to Mr K at this point that would have changed his mind  RBS had already 
told him everything it knew. Despite having been told, in what appears to have been no 
uncertain terms, Mr K had decided to continue to make further payments. And so, Im not 
persuaded that it would be fair to conclude that RBS telling him again wouldve changed 
his mind. He was already privy to this information and it had not broken the spell.
I also want to acknowledge what Mr K has said about the second set of transactions 
being part of the same scam and that the scammer still had a certain power over him. 
Based on everything hes told us, I agree with him. And, as Ive said above, I agree that 
RBS shouldve had some concerns about the later transactions given the nature of the 
first. However, I dont think it necessarily follows that RBS should now be liable for these 
transactions. 
RBS had stepped in upon the discovery that Mr K was a victim the first time. It had 
warned him about speaking with this particular scammer and about this specific scam. It 
had directed him to the Police and Action Fraud. Mr K has told us that he stopped 
logging into his social media profile and speaking with the scammer for a while - which 
suggests to me that he did initially take on board what he had been told and that he had 
time to reflect on what had happened to him. But, knowing what had happened 
previously, Mr K took steps to re-engage with the scammer and began sending money 
again  going as far as to contact the bank and apply for a loan - ultimately misleading 
RBS as to its genuine purpose. 
This suggests to me an overall willingness by Mr K to disregard what he had been told 
by these organisations and proceed anyway  at his own risk. And so Im satisfied that 
even if RBS had suspected that Mr K was being targeted again and stepped in, Im not 
satisfied that it couldve ultimately persuaded him to discontinue making payments. It had 
tried this before and it hadnt worked. 
Finally, I want to acknowledge that Mr K feels RBS failed to provide him with adequate 
scam education after the initial set of transactions. But even if I were to accept that RBS 
prior-scam education was somehow lacking; I am not persuaded that Mr K couldve 
somehow failed to realise he had been the victim of a scam. He had spoken to RBS at 
length about the original transactions and RBS had returned some of his funds. Hed 
also proactively raised his case with the Police and Action Fraud and hed been referred 
to victim support should he need further help following what had happened to him. 
Im not persuaded that Mr K couldve spoken with all of these organisations and not 
realised that he had been the victim of a scam. I also note that Mr K had informed his 
family about what had happened to him and they also appear to have been satisfied this 
was a scam. And so having considered Mr Ks further testimony and everything that had 
happened following the initial transactions, Im satisfied that Mr K would have been 
reasonably aware that he was speaking with a scammer and despite this, agreed to send 
further funds in the hope that his relationship was genuine. 
The loan application(s)
Mr K has said RBS shouldve been concerned that he had applied for two separate 
loans, for the exact same amount, in less than two weeks and this should have been 
indicative that the scam was continuing, and the second loan application shouldve been 
declined. 
Hes also said that it was inappropriate for RBS call-handler, on becoming aware of the 
strange reason for the first application, to recommend a loan application with a different Page 6 of 7reason to get around the system. I understand that Mr K believes this was to allow RBS 
to benefit from the sale of the loan. However, RBS has confirmed that only one 
application was made, the successful application for home improvements. And having 
reviewed RBS electronic records Im satisfied this was the case.
I have however listened a recording of a call between Mr K and RBS that took place prior 
to the successful loan application. During this call, Mr K contacts RBS and enquires 
about a loan for solicitors fees abroad. He is told by the call-handler this will not be 
approved and because of this, no application is processed on his behalf. Furthermore, 
there is no discussion about Mr K applying for another reason, such as home-
improvements, in order to get the loan approved - there is no mention of home 
improvements at all. And so, I cant agree with Mr K that RBS inappropriately offered him 
advice on how to get his loan application accepted. Ive seen no evidence that 
persuades me this is what happened, and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that this call 
recording is an inaccurate reflection of what was actually discussed during this call.
The later successful loan application was processed online without any interaction with 
RBS staff. During this application, based on RBS electronic records, Mr K entered the 
purpose of this loan as home improvements. The loan application was checked against 
Mr Ks credit score and approved. 
As there was no prior loan application for the same amount, just a telephone enquiry as 
to whether a loan for this reason would be accepted, I cant say the loan application 
under discussion here should have stood out as concerning to RBS because it was very 
similar to a declined application only days before  there wasnt a declined application. 
And so, it wouldnt have been identifiable to RBS, via an online application, that Mr K had 
enquired about this loan before but given a different reason as to its purpose. 
I dont think its unreasonable for RBS to not have realised this loan application might be 
connected to a scam. As far as they aware, the scam had already been uncovered and 
some of Mr Ks funds returned. There was no prior declined application, and it appeared 
that Mr K was simply applying for a one-off loan for home improvements which he was 
eligible for based on his credit score. And so, I dont think RBS did anything wrong when 
approving this loan online. And I dont think there was anything about this loan 
application at the time that shouldve raised concerns. 
Summary
Mr K recognises his contribution to the difficult situation he has found himself in. I have a 
lot of sympathy for both him and his family. However, I cant ignore that Mr K restarted 
making payments to the scammer after reporting the payments hed already made as fraud 
to RBS. He proceeded to make these payments having already been told that he was the 
victim of a scam. It seems to me in the hope that things may turn out be legitimate  and in 
doing so, he also took the risk that they might not. 
Mr K recognised these risks when he initially told the scammer he would no longer send 
her money after multiple conversations with RBS, Action Fraud and the Police. But later 
decided to borrow money from the bank, misleading them with his reasoning and 
continued to send considerable amounts of his own funds. And so it wouldnt be fair and 
reasonable for me to now say that further intervention by RBS couldve prevented Mr K 
from continuing with these payments. Prior scam specific warnings had not. I also dont 
think RBS did anything wrong in processing and approving his loan application. There 
wasnt anything about this application at the time that shouldve put RBS on notice that this 
may be a continuation of the scam.  Page 7 of 7Ive considered Mr K's personal circumstances at the time, including what hes told us 
about his mental health. But Im afraid this doesn t change my opini on. Im satisfied th at Mr 
K was willing to continue making payments despite RBS warnin gs. And Im not persuaded 
that any additional intervention from RBS couldve prevented Mr K from making the 
payments now in question he re. Mr K had already been provided with all the information 
the bank could give him as a result of the first set of payments and had chosen to continue 
sending money - this was ultimatel y the reason why the scam was successful.
My final decision
My Final decisions is that I do n ot uphold this compl aint again st The Royal Bank of 
Scotland PL
C. 
Unde r the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 August 2022.
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman