DRN-2708178
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy with how esure Insurance Limited (esure) has settled her motor insurance 
claim.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so Ive summarised events 
below.
Ms M took out a personal contract purchase (PCP) agreement for a new 
car. Her motor insurance policy was underwritten by esure.
The policy provided new car cover, meaning her vehicle would be replaced 
with a new car of the same make and model if it was less than one year old at 
the point of loss, and the insured (or their partner) was its first and only owner 
and registered keeper.
Ms Ms car was stolen when shed had it for less than one year.
esure said the finance company was the owner of the car until the 
agreement had been paid in full and so, Ms M wasnt entitled to a new 
replacement car.
It offered Ms M £21,726  which esure said was the market value of her car.
This wasnt enough to clear the remaining balance, and so, Ms M paid 
£3,096.18 on 10 October 2019 to settle the agreement.
Ms M says she would have taken out guaranteed asset protection (GAP) 
insurance had shed known she wouldnt be covered.
Our investigator said the term first and only owner and registered keeper 
was onerous and unclear. He said most cars are purchased through finance 
and it was reasonable that someone purchasing a car by such means would 
consider themselves the first owner, and not the finance company.
The investigator spoke to the finance company who said it would have 
accepted a new car replacement had esure approached it.
The investigator didnt think esure had given a fair market value for Ms Ms car. 
He said £27,640.91 was a fair valuation - which was the cash price of the 
vehicle shortly before Ms M purchased it.
He said Ms M would have been £1,129.64 better off had esure arranged a 
new replacement car with the finance company. He based this on the new 
replacement car being worth £27,640.91 and the outstanding balance, at the 
time of loss being
£26,511.27.
Our investigator said esure needed to:
opay Ms M £3,096.18 plus 8% simple interest per annum 
from 10 October 2019 to the date esure makes 
payment.
opay £1,129.64 plus 8% interest simple interest per annum from
21 October 2019 (the date the finance was cleared) to the date esure 
makes payment.
opay £200 trouble and upset
esure disagreed and so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on the information available, I agree esure needs to do something to put things 
right, but Ive reached a different conclusion to our investigator as to how it must do 
this.
esure has a responsibility to treat its customers fairly, and to ensure the terms 
of its policy are clear. But Im not satisfied its done that here.
The policy term - first and only owner and registered keeper  doesnt make it 
clear that customers who have acquired a vehicle through finance are excluded 
from new car replacement cover.
Its common for vehicles to be acquired through finance and given the term 
would impact a large proportion of customers it should have been made clear 
as I think its onerous. The policy also doesnt define owner or registered 
keeper. So, I cant see this was drawn to Ms Ms attention.
esure should have approached the finance company in the first instance. Had it 
done so, it seems the finance company would have agreed to a new vehicle 
replacement  as its told us it would have agreed to this.
But, as thats now not practical, esure needs to instead pay Ms M the fair 
market value for her car at the time of loss, as required under the policy.
Having considered the motor trade guides, and the age of Ms Ms car at the 
time of loss, Im satisfied Cazanas retail franchise price of £24,787.00 is a fair 
market price.
So, esure needs to pay Ms M the difference between the fair market 
value (£24,787.00) and what it paid to settle the claim, including any 
excess payable (£21,726.00), which is £3,061.00.
Ms M paid £3,096.18 to settle the finance. Given the difference between this 
amount and what esure is required to pay is negligible, Im satisfied its 
reasonable to ask esure to pay Ms M the amount she paid to settle the finance.
I dont however, agree esure need to pay Ms M £1,129.64. Had a new car 
replacement been given, the finance agreement wouldve continued as 
normal. So, there wouldnt have been a change to Ms Ms financial 
situation, and she wouldnt have received a cash benefit at that time.
Theres the possibility that at the end of term there would have been a slight 
difference if Ms M had exercised her right to hand back her car and taken a new 
finance deal  as she might have got a slight increase on the minimum 
guaranteed value  but that was in three years time and would have been 
subject to a number of unknowns. With that in mind, Im not satisfied I can come 
to any conclusion about the impact of this.I agree compensation is warranted, but I instead consider £500 to fairly reflect 
the difficulties Ms M experienced. If esure had provided a new replacement car, 
Ms M wouldnt have had the hassle of sorting this matter, purchasing a new car, 
and paying money to settle the finance agreement.
My provisional decision is that based on what Ive seen so far, Im minded to 
uphold this complaint. esure Insurance Limited must:
pay Ms M £3,096.18 plus 8% simple interest* per year from the date Ms M 
made the payment to the date esure makes payment.
pay £500 compensation. esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days for the date on which we tell it Ms M accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Both parties were given an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision. Ms M 
responded to say she accepted the outcome. We havent received a response from esure. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. esure Insurance Limited must:
pay Ms M £3,096.18 plus 8% simple interest* per year from the date Ms M 
made the payment to the date esure makes payment.
pay £500 compensation. esure Insurance Limited must pay the compensation 
within 28 days for the date on which we tell it Ms M accepts my final decision. If 
it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires UK Insurance Limited to deduct tax from this interest. 
UK Insurance Limited must give Ms M a certificate showing how much tax theyve deducted 
if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2021. 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman