DRN-4204812
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the customer service provided by Rock Insurance Limited, when he 
contacted it about his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D purchased travel insurance through Rock. The policy was purchased on 23 March 
2022, to cover trips between 30 March 2022 and 29 March 2023. The economy cover 
purchased provided cover for various risks during this time, including pre and post departure 
risks.
Mr D has explained that in August 2022 he went on a trip abroad. But when he landed at the 
relevant airport and went to collect his luggage, his luggage wasnt there. Mr D said he 
reported the loss to the airline at the airport. 
Mr D then contacted Rock, on 22 August 2022, to see what the process was to make a claim 
for his lost baggage under his travel insurance policy. Mr D didnt receive a reply to this 
email, until 9 September 2022, after chasing for a response. At that point, Rock told Mr D 
although it sold the policy to Mr D, it didnt handle claims. It provided Mr D with the contact 
details for his insurer, who Ill call E, in order for Mr D to make a claim. 
Mr D made a claim, and unhappy with the insurers response, he contacted Rock further. A 
representative from Rock spoke to Mr D on 30 September 2022. Mr D was dissatisfied with 
insurer E. But he was also dissatisfied with Rocks handling of the situation. 
On 8 October 2022 Mr D contacted Rock via its complaints emails address. He said hed 
contacted Rock on many occasions, including contacting its CEO, it and didnt respond as it 
should have done  with the CEO not responding to 20 emails sent to them. And Mr D said 
he wanted the conversation hed had with a Rock representative on 30 September 2022 
listened to. 
Mr D didnt receive a formal complaint response. As he remained dissatisfied, his complaint 
was referred to this service for an independent review.  
In its submission to this service, Rock said Mr D was provided with his policy documentation, 
which made the cover being provided clear. Rock said it responded to legitimate questions 
Mr D had asked it, but it didnt respond to emails where the behaviour displayed within these 
communications was unacceptable.
Rock said its CEO didnt generally respond to enquiries, with the responsibility for 
responding to complaints being with the complaints team. But apologised for any delays it 
Rock had been responsible for.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They said:
Rock wasnt responsible for handling Mr Ds travel insurance claim, and that the 
relevant insurer responsible for this was clearly detailed in the policy documentation 
provided to Mr D.
Mr D waited around three weeks for a response from Rock, when he first asked 
about the process to make a travel insurance claim. The investigator noted this delay 
would have been frustrating. But said Mr D did have information within his policy 
documents telling him how to claim. So, they felt the impact of this delay was limited, 
and didnt recommend Rock take any further steps in relation to this element of the 
case.
Other than the above delay, the investigator considered Rock had acted fairly in its 
communications with Mr D, responding when necessary, and hadnt provided Mr D 
with incorrect details about his policy. For example, it had provided correct 
information about Mr Ds laptop computer and the cover under the policy for it.
Mr D didnt agree. Mr D said his complaint was that he wanted his lost baggage reimbursed.
Because Mr D didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. So, I dont require Rock to do 
anything more. Ive explained why below.
Its important to explain that Mr D is also dissatisfied his travel insurance claim hasnt been 
settled. As Rock isnt the insurer of Mr Ds policy, but is instead the intermediary that 
arranged the policy, it isnt responsible for any claims decision. So, this decision doesnt 
cover that issue. Mr Ds separate complaint about his insurer covers that. In this case, Im 
solely focusing on the complaint points raised about Rock. 
One of Mr Ds key concerns is how Rock communicated with him. As above, Mr D has said 
he sent a number of emails to Rock that went unanswered  and that the emails he sent to 
the CEO werent responded to. So, Ive considered whether I think Rock acted fairly in this 
respect, or not.
Ive seen the initial emails Mr D sent to Rock. Mr D did sent Rock an email on 22 August 
2022, asking about the claims process. And he chased Rock for a response to this initial 
email on both 30 August 2022 and 5 September 2022. Rock didnt respond until 
9 September 2022.
In this email Rock apologised for its delay in responding to Mr D. It then explained that it 
didnt handle claims and provided Mr D with information on how he could contact his insurer 
to make a claim.Having seen this, I do think Rock could have responded more promptly to 
Mr D. It took it over two weeks to respond, and I can see why this was a frustration to Mr D. 
As I think Rock could have responded more promptly here, Ive thought about whether Rock 
needs to do anything to put this issue right.
And I dont think Rock needs to do anything more in this respect. Im satisfied the apology 
Rock provided to Mr D was enough to recognise the frustration Mr D experienced during this 
time. I have to be mindful that the impact of Rocks failure to respond was limited. I say this 
because Mr D did have the information he needed to make a claim, as this was clear within 
the policy documents sent to him when he purchased his policy. 
Ive also reviewed the further communications between Mr D and Rock, which have been 
provided by the parties. And I dont think Rock acted unreasonably. Mr D asked for a call 
from Rock. And after Rock established why Mr D wanted to speak, and that it was necessary 
to call him, Rock phoned Mr D on 30 September 2022. Ive listened to that call. The Rock representative answered Mr Ds queries. For example, the 
representative provided an explanation of where Mr D could find policy terms relevant to his 
claim. The representative did confirm that Mr Ds laptop computer was covered up to £250. 
But, also made it clear that the policy was subject to terms. The representative then followed 
up the conversation with an email  detailing the relevant policy terms. Im satisfied the call 
was handled by Rock professionally, with the correct information about the policy, and cover 
for the laptop computer, being provided.
Mr D has said he sent a number of emails that went unanswered, including emails to Rocks 
CEO. I acknowledge there were likely times when Rock didnt respond to some emails. Ive 
seen occasions where Mr D sent multiple emails to Rock in one day, and where the emails 
didnt contain any additional information or questions. I dont think it was unfair for Rock not 
to respond to all of these emails, as there were times when there was nothing additional to 
add. And Im satisfied Rock responded to Mr Ds queries in a reasonable way. 
I can also see that Mr D had copied the CEO into communications, and I understand Mr D is 
dissatisfied that them CEO themselves didnt communicate with him. But I wouldnt 
necessarily expect a CEO to respond to emails such as these themselves  as these would 
generally be delegated to the relevant department in the business. Rock has confirmed this 
is the case here too. Its not for this service to instruct a business as to who answers its 
emails, and when. So, I dont make any award in this respect, or require Rock to do anything 
differently here.
Mr D has also raised concerns that he purchased his insurance through Rock, but that the 
insurer is a different firm. Mr D says he wasnt told that when he purchased the policy. Ive 
considered this point. But its not unusual for the party that sells the policy to be different to 
the party that provides the insurance. And this is explained in Mr Ds policy documents. So, I 
dont think Rock did anything wrong here either.
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Rock Insurance Services Limited to do anything differently in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2023.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman