DRN-2384764
The complaint
K, a partnership which Ill refer to as K complain that WorldPay (UK) Limited (WorldPay) 
unfairly deducted payments from Ks account after a chargeback was raised against it. Mr B, 
who is a partner, brings the complaint on Ks behalf. 
What happened
WorldPay act as Ks merchant acquirer and in 2017, A entered into a merchant processing 
agreement with WorldPay whereby WorldPay provided a card terminal for transactions to be 
processed by K. 
In October 2019, Mr B was telephoned by a customer who placed an order for goods 
totalling £8,700. The goods were paid for over the phone in three instalments using a Visa 
debit card. The payments were processed as card not present (CNP) transactions. 
On the day of the transactions, and because the customer wanted to collect the goods rather 
than have them delivered, Mr B has told us that he checked Ks WorldPay dashboard to see 
if the payments were showing. When they werent, he spoke to a member of WorldPay 
customer services team. He says he was told the payments would not show up immediately 
but that if the payments were made using a debit card and were authorised there shouldnt 
be a problem. After a few days Mr B checked the dashboard again and, noticing the 
payments were now showing, the goods were delivered. 
A further order came in from the same customer the day after the delivery and payment for 
that order was also taken. But before the second order could be delivered, K was contacted 
by WorldPay advising the first payment was being disputed and reclaimed through a 
chargeback. K didnt go through with the second order. 
WorldPay later debited Ks account with the payments. And although the payments were 
temporarily recredited the day after, a further and final deduction took place a few days after 
that. 
Mr B complained to WorldPay about what had happened. But WorldPay didnt think theyd 
done anything wrong. Mr B didnt agree and brought Ks complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. And after considering the terms and 
conditions of Ks agreement with WorldPay, as well as the associated Customer Operating 
Instructions (COI), concluded WorldPay acted in accordance with those agreements and 
therefore hadnt done anything wrong. 
Mr B didnt agree. Both he and a representative have made a number of points as why  
which Ill summarise: 
The goods werent delivered until after WorldPay were contacted and the payments 
were showing on Ks dashboard.    
K has a delivery note demonstrating the goods were in fact delivered. And a VISA 
slip stating Verification Response All Match. In such circumstances, Mr B believes a 
chargeback can be defended. 
As the affected party, K had the right to contest the chargeback. WorldPay didnt 
contest it nor did they help K to do so.  
WorldPay didnt follow their own policy when debiting the disputed funds from Ks 
account. Worldpay had asked for bank statements evidencing K had no affordability 
concerns. And yet WorldPay went ahead with the deduction despite K not providing 
the statements. The deduction could have been disastrous financially for K.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find Im in broad agreement with the investigator for reasons Ill come to in 
a moment. 
But first, I should say how sorry I am to hear that in essence, K has been the victim of fraud 
and has lost money as a result. The person who was ultimately responsible for Ks loss 
managed to take a significant amount of goods from it and the payments K thought had been 
made legitimately were returned through a chargeback. So, I need now to consider whether 
WorldPay treated K unfairly in the way they dealt with that chargeback. 
Its worth noting that chargeback payments are governed by the specific rules of the relevant 
card scheme  in this case VISA. And the expectation is that WorldPay will abide by those 
rules when dealing with chargeback claims. The obligations WorldPay have towards K when 
dealing with such claims are set out in the agreements, they entered into with K. 
In respect of the transactions that were completed by K, it would seem that the card holder 
whose account was debited wasnt the person who carried them out. And on that basis the 
account holders bank instigated the chargeback through VISA.  Under VISA rules there 
does seem to have been a valid reason for raising the chargeback. In other words, the 
genuine cardholder didnt carry out the transactions.  
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the agreement K entered into with WorldPay, as 
well as the COI which set out the risks for CNP transactions. Ive done so particularly to 
determine whether WorldPay could fairly require K to bear responsibility for the chargeback 
arising from the disputed transactions. Having looked at the terms and conditions of these 
agreements Im satisfied they can. 
Section 6 of the terms and conditions which deal with Chargebacks and Assessments says:  
6. CHARGEBACKS AND ASSESSMENTS
6.1 Each Chargeback and each Assessment represents a debt immediately due and 
payable by you to us.
6.2 You acknowledge and agree that you may be required to reimburse us for Chargebacks 
in circumstances where you have accepted payment in respect of the relevant Transaction, 
even if you are under no legal liability in respect of the supply of the goods or services 
concerned.
6.4 In the event you wish to dispute a Chargeback it is your responsibility (i) to prove to our 
reasonable satisfactionthat the debit of the Buyers account was authorised by such 
Buyer; and to provide us with such other evidence as we may require you to provide in 
support of your claim. 
6.5 Subject to the Scheme Rules, neither we nor any Other Financial Institution shall be 
obliged to investigate the validity of any Chargeback or Assessment.So, the terms and conditions of Ks agreement with WorldPay make it clear that K will be 
liable for any successful chargeback. I do not find it was unfair for WorldPay to rely on them. 
Mr B has fairly highlighted the steps that were taken by K before the goods were delivered in 
order to try and prevent the situation K later found itself in. They included contacting 
WorldPay on the date payments were accepted for the goods to find out the position 
regarding the payments. I know Mr B believes he was poorly advised on that call. Like the 
investigator Ive also listened to the call.  
I agree with the investigator that at no time did WorldPay confirm that the goods could be 
safely released. In fact, he twice said that he couldnt confirm this and asked Mr B to call 
again the following day. 
Ive considered whether WorldPay should have been more helpful on the call and whether 
they should have mentioned the possibility of a chargeback. But it was a brief conversation 
and Mr B didnt directly ask if he would be safe releasing the goods when payments showed 
up on Ks WorldPay dashboard. In the context of that call, I dont think it was unreasonable 
of WorldPay not to give more guidance. 
I appreciate Mr B delayed delivery until after the payments were showing on WorldPays 
dashboard, which hed checked a few days after the transaction. And he might also have 
taken comfort from the fact the transaction receipts showed an authorised notification and 
an All Match verification.  
But because these were CNP transactions they were inherently risky as the COI made clear. 
And they highlighted the need to be cautious even in circumstances where a merchant 
receives the type of notifications K did.  
COI states:
Does receiving an Authorisation mean I will be paid 
No. Receiving an Authorisation for a Transaction is no guarantee of payment. It does not 
confirm the authenticity of the Card presenter or the Card, nor does it guarantee payment. 
In fact, authorisation means that there is no known problem with the payment at that time 
and the related card has not been reported lost or stolen. And the data match verification 
doesnt prove that the genuine cardholder authorised the transaction as it could be that 
someone has had access to their details. Its because of these inherent risks when it comes 
to CNP transactions, that the COI sets out what are in my view appropriate steps that should 
prudently be taken to minimise them. 
I next consider whether the chargeback shouldve been defended.
I can understand why K would have been disappointed a defence to the chargeback wasnt 
attempted. Not least because when notifying K of the chargeback, WorldPay did ask for 
evidence that might help mount a challenge. 
Although the terms and conditions of Ks agreement with WorldPay states they arent obliged 
to investigate the validity of any chargeback, we would think it reasonable to do so if there 
was a reasonable chance of a successful outcome.  
But WorldPay have explained they wouldnt have been able to successfully challenge the 
chargeback on Ks behalf in any event. And that was because of a number of concerns 
surrounding the transactions - including: 
they were taken as CNP with all the associated risks;
they were split as three payments  contrary to COI guidance; 
it wasnt possible to confirm the goods were delivered to the cardholder  as 
apparently, they were delivered to a sports centre playing fields; andit wasnt possible to prove the cardholder participated in the transactions.  
Given these concerns, it does seem unlikely that a successful challenge to the chargeback 
would have been possible. And in the circumstances, I do not find WorldPay treated K 
unfairly when they decided not to go ahead with one.   
I come finally to Ks argument that because, without prior notice, WorldPay debited their 
account with the chargeback transactions, they didnt follow their procedures. In particular, 
because WorldPay requested statements to show whether the deductions would be 
affordable but went ahead anyway despite not being given the statements.  
But the purpose behind WorldPays request for statements wasnt to safeguard Ks position 
as the letter to K dated 7 November 2019 made clear. So, in my opinion failure to provide 
the information didnt preclude WorldPays action in debiting Ks account. They had the right 
to do so under the terms and conditions of their agreement with K. In the circumstances Im 
unable to conclude WorldPay acted unfairly when they exercised that right. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman