DRN-3453969
The complaint
Mr W complains about Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) under his home emergency policy. 
Hes unhappy IPA didnt diagnose a leak from his roof and declined his claim for repair to 
damage to his bathroom.
This decision covers Mr Ws complaint about IPA as the provider of cover under the home 
emergency section of Mr Ws home insurance policy. It doesnt cover Mr Ws claim under the 
rest of the home insurance policy, provided by a different insurer, which is the subject of a 
separate complaint to this service.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr W found water coming through his kitchen ceiling. He contacted IPA and 
from his description of the circumstances they sent a plumber to investigate the bathroom 
above the kitchen. The plumber diagnosed a leaking shower and problems with the sealant 
around the bath. The plumber replaced the shower and recommended replacement of the 
sealant. However, the leak came back the following month, so Mr W contacted IPA again. 
They sent another plumber, who advised that access was needed under the bath to check 
the waste pipe. Mr W arranged for access to be gained (by moving a sink and cupboard) and 
the plumber replaced a waste tray beneath the bath. 
The following month Mr W contacted IPA again to say there was water coming through his 
roof. IPA arranged for a roofer to attend (though not for five days). The roofer noted a 
temporary covering had been put over the area of the roof where the rain was coming in, but 
wouldnt access the roof for health and safety reasons (because of the way the covering had 
been put in place). Mr W subsequently had the roof repaired at the end of September (at a 
cost of £1,800) and the leak didnt occur again.
Mr W felt IPA had mis-diagnosed the cause of the problem as coming from the shower and 
the bath, whereas the problem was with the roof. He was also unhappy at IPA taking five 
days to send out a roofer and their refusal to go onto the roof. So, he complained to IPA.
In their final response, IPA partially upheld the complaint. They didnt accept the cause of the 
leak had been misdiagnosed the cause of the leak. They said the plumbers found leaks from 
the shower and bath. As plumbers they wouldnt have inspected the roof area. IPA added 
that damage to Mr Ws property was caused by the water ingress  not the actions of the 
plumbers. IPA also didnt accept that their roofer had wrongly declined to go onto the roof 
because of health and safety concerns. But they accepted there was a delay in the roofer 
attending. In recognition of this, IPA awarded Mr W £100 in compensation and said theyd 
reimburse the cost of the temporary repair if he could send a copy of any report or invoice.
Mr W then complained to this service. He was unhappy at what had happened, and that IPA 
hadnt diagnosed the problem with the roof. He wanted IPA to pay for repair of the damage to 
his ceiling and for a new bathroom (or to pay him £10,000 for a new bathroom).
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint, concluding IPA hadnt acted unreasonably 
or treated Mr W unfairly. He thought IPA had acted reasonably in initially sending plumbers 
to inspect the property, and theyd diagnosed a problem with the shower and the bath. So, he 
thought it unreasonable to say theyd mis-diagnosed the problem. He also thought it wasnt 
unreasonable for the roofer to decline to go on to the roof and IPAs offer of £100 for delay in 
sending out the roofer and to reimburse the cost of the temporary repair was reasonable. 
Mr W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In doing so, he made several points. First the delay in sending a roofer made 
the damage from the roof leak much worse. Also, hed had to pay £270 to enable access to 
the bath and IPA hadnt sealed the bath. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether IPA has acted fairly towards Mr W.
The main element of Mr Ws complaint is that IPA mis-diagnosed the cause of the water 
ingress (the leak) at his property as being from issues with the bathroom  whereas the 
issue was with the roof. Consequently, this led to extensive damage to his bathroom and 
kitchen ceiling (which he feels IPA should cover). IPA dont accept their plumbers mis-
diagnosed the issue and they found issues with the shower and bath. 
Ive considered both views, together with the available evidence and information. On balance 
I agree with IPAs view, so I dont think there are reasonable grounds to ask IPA to do 
anything more. I know this will be disappointing to Mr W, so Ill set out why Ive come to that 
conclusion.
Looking at the sequence of events, when Mr W first contacted IPA in July 2021, Ive listened 
to the call and it indicates water coming through the kitchen ceiling but didnt indicate a clear 
source. Mr W opts for a plumber to attend in the first instance (rather than a roofer) when 
given the choice. When the plumber attended, he inspected the bathroom and diagnosed a 
leak from the shower (and a problem with the bath sealant). Given the bathrooms location 
above the kitchen, I dont think it was unreasonable that the diagnosis was made (and the 
shower subsequently replaced). 
When the leak came back the following month, the problem was diagnosed as potentially 
with the bath waste pipe. The waste tray was subsequently replaced. Again, I dont think that 
was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
It was only when the leak occurred again the following week that the issue with the roof was 
identified. From the call recording, Mr W refers to the water being dirty and the sound of it 
flowing indicates its coming through from the roof. Its at that point IPA try to locate a roofer 
to attend, but one isnt available until five days later. At that point a temporary covering has 
been put in place by a roofer that Mr W has engaged. IPAs roofer subsequently didnt feel 
safe to go on to the roof because of the way the covering had been put in place. I can 
understand Mr Ws frustration at this, but I can also understand IPAs roofer considering 
health and safety when making that decision. Looking at the photograph of the temporary 
covering, I can understand that view.  
In their final response, IPA acknowledge the delay in their being able to locate a roofer to 
attend for five days. Theyve offered to reimburse Mr W for the cost of engaging his roofer 
and the temporary repair (if hes able to provide an invoice or report). I think thats 
reasonable in the circumstances, given they couldnt secure a roofer straight away.
 
While I think thats reasonable, Ive also considered the cost of the permanent repair 
(£1,800) and the damage caused to Mr Ws property (principally the bathroom and the kitchen ceiling) which Mr W says IPA should cover as they didnt diagnose the issue being 
with the roof. Looking at the home emergency section of the policy, it provides for IPA to 
carry out emergency work (in respect of sudden leakage or storm damage causing water to 
enter the property). But it doesnt cover:
The following incidents or circumstances:
iii) The cost of effecting permanent repairs once the immediate emergency situation 
has been resolved, including any redecoration or making good the structure, fixtures 
and fittings of your home.
I think this makes it clear that the home emergency section of the policy isnt intended to 
cover the permanent repair to the roof.
Under the General Exceptions part of the Home Emergency policy it states:
We will not pay for:
2. Damage to contents of your home.
3. An insured event where the cost can be recovered from elsewhere, for example 
under another insurance policy 
Looking at this, I think it means the damage caused by the water ingress (the leak) isnt 
covered under the home emergency section of the policy  but it would potentially be 
covered under the buildings and/or contents sections of the home insurance policy. These 
sections arent provided by IPA (but by another insurer) and, as I said at the start of this 
decision, Mr W has raised a separate complaint against the other insurer. 
Mr W also says he paid £270 to enable access to be gained to the bath (so the plumber 
could then inspect the area, following which a new waste tray was fitted). While IPA didnt 
cover this point in their final response, Ive considered the circumstances and what would be 
fair and reasonable. 
Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ws home insurance policy (which includes home 
emergency as a separate section) Ive noted that under the buildings insurance section, 
there is provision for the cost of trace and access of an escape of water to be covered (up to 
a limit of £5,000 for any one claim). But as this is in the buildings insurance section  not the 
home emergency section  then Id expect this to be something for the buildings insurance 
insurer to assess. It wouldnt fall to IPA as they dont provide the buildings insurance cover 
section of the policy. Based on this, Ive concluded it wouldnt be reasonable for IPA to cover 
the cost of trace and access.
Taking all these factors into account, Ive concluded that IPA have acted fairly and 
reasonably towards Mr W, so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman