DRN-3054005
The complaint
 Mr Js complaint about Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) relates to an internal IT failure in 
linking his current account to his offset mortgage account which has caused him 
inconvenience, upset and stress.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in any great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. In 
summary however, Barclays accept that they experienced an internal IT issue which led to 
their being unable to link Mr Js accounts. 
Barclays upheld Mr Js complaint but said the IT issue was something they were not 
immediately able to resolve and nor could they provide a definitive timescale to remedy the 
problem. In recognition of this Barclays offered Mr J £250 in compensation assuring him that 
they would backdate the offset benefit lost so that he did not lose out. 
They recognised that he had made several phone calls to try and resolve the issue leading 
to significant amounts of time on the phone partly occasioned by the effects of Covid-19 
related closure of some of their offshore offices. 
Mr J was unhappy with Barclays final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator thought that there had been poor 
service by Barclays and the amount of compensation offered was insufficient. She thought 
Barclays should pay a further £100 which Barclays agreed to do. Mr J didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Barclays accept they have an IT problem which is preventing Mr Js accounts from being 
linked. As I understand it that problem has still not been fixed. This has led to their 
agreement to pay £350 in compensation to Mr J, which he has rejected. The issue for me 
therefore is what is a reasonable amount of compensation.
Problems and issues such as those experienced by Mr J very often lead a customer to 
experience frustration, annoyance, and inconvenience. When we find this has occurred we 
think about what a business could do to put matters right, and awarding compensation is one 
way of doing that. But awards for the trouble and upset need to be balanced and measured 
against the ups and downs of daily life we all face when dealing with other people, 
businesses, and organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times. 
When we make awards of compensation we categorise them and examples of these can be 
found on our website. What is important to remember is that there is no set figure, since the 
facts of each case are different, and ultimately it is an exercise of judgement, looking at all 
the circumstances of the case and coming to a figure which feels fair, when set against the 
effect upon the complainant of any particular service failures.
It seems to me there are two principal aspects concerning the effect of Barclays IT failure 
upon Mr J. First there is the issue of any direct loss through a failure to offset interest. In this 
regard Barclays have given Mr J a clear written assurance that there will be none and they 
will backdate any offset benefit lost so that he does not lose out. I am therefore satisfied 
there is no direct loss here for Mr J.
The second aspect is the time Mr J has taken to try to resolve the complaint coupled with the 
uncertainty he experienced prior to receiving the assurance from Barclays that he would not 
suffer any loss. The system notes show Mr J raising the issue on 20 January 2021 and 
receiving a final response letter on 10 February. 
It was not until June however that Barclays told Mr J that he could transfer funds from his 
current account to his mortgage current account (MCA) which was already linked to his 
mortgage account. From that time Mr J has been able to transfer funds into his MCA so that 
those funds may be offset. 
I do accept that as matters presently stand Mr J does not have up to the minute information 
regarding his offset, but he does have the assurance from Barclays that he will not lose any 
benefit. So, when I consider whether Barclays could perhaps perform manual calculations 
periodically for him, as he has requested, and in the context that this error doesnt just affect 
him as it is a wider issue affecting many other customers, I dont think it would be reasonable 
or proportionate to expect Barclays to do that. 
As a final point, I note that in his responses to this service, Mr J raised issues of illegality and 
governmental intervention in respect of Barclays failures. Whilst I can understand why he 
raises such matters I must confirm that this service is not a governmental body  it is a 
dispute resolution service. Our service doesnt regulate businesses and as such we dont 
have any powers to impose fines upon businesses. Any overall concerns about business 
process would need to be raised with the regulator - the Financial Conduct Authority.
Putting things right
 Putting all of this into the balance I think the investigators view that Barclays should offer a 
further £100 to Mr J is right. That brings the total compensation offered to £350 which I think 
is fair and reasonable taking account of all the circumstances here for the trouble and upset 
caused.
My final decision
 Barclays Bank UK PLC has already offered to pay Mr J £350 to settle this complaint, and I 
think is sufficient. So, my final decision is that it should pay Mr J £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman