DRN-3821161
The complaint
Mr M says Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) irresponsibly lent
to him. He has requested that the interest and late payment charges he paid be refunded.
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card taken out on 1 October 2020 with an initial credit limit
of £5,400.
Mr M says hes unhappy that Virgin Money provided credit on the account which he
couldnt afford.
The complaint was assessed by our investigator and the complaint was upheld. Virgin
Money disagreed with the investigators assessment, so, the complaint was passed to me
to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 8 November 2022, a section 
of which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I had reached the same outcome as our adjudicator but for slightly 
different reasons, and why I was minded to award a slightly different redress. I set out an 
extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our
website.
Virgin Money needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M
could afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and
proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Virgin Money should fairly and reasonably
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
In this case, Virgin was making a large credit limit available to Mr M. And it knew that Mr M
already had a significant amount of unsecured borrowing at the time. It also knew that this
borrowing was across numerous different accounts, many of which Mr M had taken out in
the previous twelve months. Virgin Money also knew from its checks that Mr M was
regularly overdrawn in his current account. All of that suggested that Mr M might have been
reliant on recently acquired unsecured credit which, allied to his overdraft balance, should
have suggested he might be struggling.
So, I think that a proportionate check should have seen Virgin Money confirm that Mr M
had the income sufficient to afford the new credit. Virgin Money told us that Mr M told them
he earned £45,000 a year with another £20,000 a year of other household income. But
Virgin Money has provided no evidence to support its testimony on this point.
Had Virgin Money sought evidence to confirm Mr Ms income, they would have seen that
Mr M was not earning the amount they say he was. Mr Ms take home pay was in the
region of £1,600 per month. Had Mr Ms income been shown to be less than Virgin Money
had thought, for whatever reason they had thought what they thought, and in the
knowledge of the significant existing borrowings Mr M already had, a proportionate check
should have, in my opinion, seen Virgin Money confirm Mr Ms expenditure, So they could
be sure he could afford more credit.
But Virgin Money chose instead to rely on an assumed calculation of Mr Ms expenditure.
In doing so, they missed that Mr Ms financial situation was not straightforward. He was
responsible for paying towards the running of two homes. Had Virgin Money performed
proportionate checks, they would have seen that Mr Ms actual expenditure was far in
excess of their assumed calculated expenditure. Had Virgin Money performed
proportionate checks, they would have seen that Mr M was already over-committed
financially.
So, had it conducted proportionate checks, I think the situation that Virgin Money would
have seen, should have suggested to Virgin Money that it was likely that Mr M would have
been unable to make payments on the increased borrowing, if used, whilst at the same
time having to meet his daily living expenses and other credit commitments, most likely.
I have noted that on application Mr M declared he intended to use £3,000 of any new credit
on balance transfers. But Ive also had thought for the fact that Virgin Money chose to 
provide a credit limit of £5,400 and knowingly chose to increase Mr Ms access to credit
above the amount he wanted for balance transfers.
So, I think that proportionate checks would likely have shown Virgin Money that Mr M
was in financial difficulty already in his management of his other debts and day-to-day
living expenses. I also think there was a significant risk that further increases to his credit
could have led to his indebtedness increasing unsustainably, such that he had no funds
available to meet his debts and regular outgoings.
It follows that I think that Mr M lost out because Virgin Money provided him with further
credit. In my view, Virgin Moneys actions unfairly prolonged Mr Ms indebtedness by
allowing him to use credit he couldnt afford over an extended period of time and theinterest being added would only have the effect of putting him into further debt.
It follows that Virgin Money should put things right.
Putting things right  what Virgin Money needs to do
As I dont think Virgin Money ought to have provided Mr M with the credit card, in this
complaint, I dont think its fair for it to be able to charge any interest or charges under the
credit agreement. But I think Mr M should pay back the amounts he has borrowed.
Therefore, Virgin Money should:
Rework the credit removing all interest and charges that have been applied, so that 
Mr M only needs to pay back the capital he borrowed.
If Mr M has paid back more than the capital he borrowed, any overpayments should 
be refunded to him along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date 
of each overpayment to the date of settlement. Virgin Money should also remove all 
adverse information regarding this credit from Mr Ms credit file.
Or, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, Virgin Money should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr M for the remaining amount. Once Mr 
M has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to the credit should 
be removed from his credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Virgin Money to deduct tax from any award of interest.
It must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after
deducting the tax.
My redress differs slightly from the investigators suggested redress, in the third bullet point
above. I believe that our standard approach to redress applies in this case, such that 
adverse information about the credit should be removed once Mr M has cleared any
remaining balance.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out, Im currently minded to fully uphold Mr Ms complaint, such that
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money, should put things right in the way set out
above.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 22 November 2022. Sadly, both the emails that accompanied the 
decision referred to a response date of 22 December 2022. This was corrected in 
correspondence dated 10 November 2022. 
Mr M has acknowledged receiving the provisional decision. Virgin Money has not 
acknowledged receiving the decision or made any further submissions or asked for an 
extension to do so. I think that Virgin Money has had sufficient time to make a final 
submission had it wished to do so. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Virgin Money will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Mr M is largely happy with the provisional decision. However, he wishes that I would change 
the standard redress I suggested should be awarded. Mr M would like the adverse credit 
markings that pertain to his debt management plan to be removed before he repays the full 
amount he owes to Virgin Money. That is not our standard approach. And I think it would be 
unreasonable for me to reach this finding in relation to the balances owed and how they are 
recorded on Mr Ms credit file going forward. I think it would be unreasonable to have 
incorrect markings in Mr Ms credit file and arguably not in Mr Ms best interests, or those of 
any potential lender. 
Beyond the above, given that theres no new information for me to consider following my 
provisional decision, I have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set 
out my full reasons for upholding Mr Ms complaint in part, I have nothing further to add. 
Putting things right
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should put things right in the way set out
In my provisional decision and repeated above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as 
Virgin Money should put things right in the way set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman