DRN-1683501
The complaint
Miss M says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2004.
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA has accepted responsibility for the 
sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
The PPI policy was sold to Miss M when she applied for a store card on 24 January 2004.
The policy cost £1.50 per month for every £100 outstanding on Miss Ms statement each 
month. If Miss M was unable to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment the 
policy could have paid 15% of Miss Ms outstanding balance each month until either the 
balance was cleared, or Miss M returned to work. The policy was cancelled in 2005. In total 
Miss M was charged £77.93 in PPI premiums.
Our adjudicator thought Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. AXA disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms case.
Having done so I am upholding Miss Ms complaint, Ill explain why.
AXA needed to give Miss M information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that she 
could decide whether to buy the policy. I dont think AXA made the cost of the policy clear to 
Miss M.
I say this as the application form signed by Miss M gives no details of the cost of the policy.
I think this would have made a difference to Miss M as shes told us she had existing 
resources that she could have relied on to make the monthly repayments if she became too 
unwell to work. Miss M could not recall what level of sick pay her employer would have paid 
if she became unwell, or for how long it would last. But given Miss M had worked for her 
employer for six years I think she would likely have received some sick pay.
In addition, Miss M has told us she had savings of around £5,000 at the time she took out 
the store card. So, I think Miss M had access to enough resources to be able to pay the 
store card without having to rely on the PPI.
In response to the adjudicators findings, AXA requested evidence of Miss Ms savings. But I 
dont think it is reasonable to expect Miss M to have bank statements showing her savings after nearly 16 years, and she has been consistent in what she has told us about her 
savings.
So, if Miss M was given clear information about the cost of the policy, I dont think she would 
have thought it good value for her. And I dont think she would have gone ahead and bought 
the policy. 
Putting things right
AXA should put Miss M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
AXA should find out how much Miss M wouldve owed when the account was closed if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss M owed when she closed the 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss M would have owed 
when she closed the account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should 8% a year. 
If  when AXA works out what Miss M would have owed each month without PPI  Miss M 
paid more than enough to clear the balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Miss M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Miss M 
wouldve owed AXA something on the credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give    
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct AXA France IARD to pay Miss M compensation as set out 
in this decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman