DRN-2977501
The complaint
Mr C complains that his credit account from PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie SCA (Paypal) is 
misleading.
What happened
Mr C had a Paypal credit account with a limit of £3000. In April 2020 he asked for and was 
given, a three-month payment holiday. In July 2020, he was given a further three-month 
payment holiday. Direct debits were cancelled for those periods. In December 2020, the 
direct debit wasnt paid and a late payment fee of £12 was charged. It was refunded. In 
January 2021, Mr C made a purchase of £289.85. It was returned and the amount refunded 
on 14 February 2021. 
Mr C complained about three things. Firstly, the direct debit had been cancelled by Paypal 
and caused him to pay a late fee. Secondly, he wasnt getting any statements and so he 
couldnt understand his account balance. Thirdly, he couldnt understand the account 
balance  as the refund of £289.85 hadnt been refunded; and, he cant understand how the 
purchases balance can increase  when he hasnt made any purchases.
Paypal apologised for the problem with the direct debit. It shouldve been reinstated but 
wasnt  due to their error. But theyd dealt with this at the time and refunded the fee of £12. 
Mr Cs credit file hadnt been affected. On statements, Paypal provide only online statements 
for their credit accounts  thats part of the way they do business. Mr C would get a monthly 
email to advise him his statement was ready  which he could view online. On the issue of 
helping Mr C understand his balance, they said theyd call him to explain how its worked 
out.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. He said that Paypals explanation of his account hadnt 
been helpful. Our investigator said that Paypal had apologised for the missed direct debit 
and refunded the late fee. And  online statements were part of Paypals business model. 
On the matter of the account balance, she said the refund of £289.85 had been received into 
the account. But  it was used to reduce the higher interest balance on the account  and 
not the lower interest rate balance (which represented the purchase of £289.85). So  this 
had worked in Mr Cs favour.
Mr C didnt agree and asked that his complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will deal with Mr Cs complaints about the direct debit and statements first. I can see that Mr 
C had two payment holidays, each for three months  from April through to November 2020. 
During this time, no payments were due  under the terms of the holidays. So  Paypal 
cancelled the monthly direct debit. But they didnt reinstate it  due to their error. So  the 
first payment after the end of the holiday was missed and a late fee of £12 was charged in 
December 2020. I can see that Paypal refunded the fee straight way after Mr C contacted 
them. They also told us that his credit file wasnt affected. So  Paypal acted reasonably 
here.
On the issue of statements  the way that Paypal is set up is to provide these online, not in 
paper form. Theyre an online business. So  Ive seen that Mr C gets a monthly email to 
advise that his statements are ready to view online  he must log on and look at them or 
print them as he sees fit.  So  I think Paypal acted reasonably here also.
Turning to the reconciliation of Mr Cs balance. Hes raised two matters here. Firstly, the 
refund of £289.85. And secondly  the issue of how the purchase balance is calculated.
PayPals terms and conditions set out how monthly payments are calculated, and how 
credits to the account are allocated:
PAYMENTS
Minimum payments:
2.1 The monthly minimum payment amount and due date is shown on your monthly 
statement, detailed in Condition 11 below, and is the amount represented by:
A. the Promotional Purchase Offer Transaction Payment Amount, being the monthly 
instalment amounts due for the relevant month as payment for the balance of each of your 
Promotional Purchase Offer Transactions;
plus:
the Standard Monthly Balance Payment Amount, being the greater of:
i.2% of the outstanding balance (excluding the balance of your 
Promotional Purchase Offer Transactions) on the Credit Account plus 
interest and default charges on the statement; or
ii.£5; or
iii.the whole amount of the outstanding balance (excluding the balance 
of your Promotional Purchase Offer Transactions) on the Credit 
Account if such amount is less than £5.
Allocation of Payments:
If you do not pay the Credit Account balance in full in any month, we will apply your payment 
to outstanding amounts on your statement in the following order:
A. first, to any Promotional Purchase Offer Transaction Payment Amounts due; then to
B. the Standard Balance; then to
C. any Promotional Balance; then to
D. any other balance shown on this statement.
In each category, payments will be allocated in order from the balance subject to the highest
interest rate to the balance subject to the lowest interest rate
On the refund of £289.85  I can see that the purchase was made in January 2021 and it 
was refunded in February 2021. The entries are shown on Mr Cs statements. The way that 
Paypals credit account works  is not like say, a credit card. A Paypal credit account 
customer may have a range of different purchase balances. Each may have a different rate 
of interest  depending on what Paypal want to offer a customer. These range from 0% to 
20.9% APR and be for periods between six months and 48 months. Paypal told us that when 
a refund is received  then its applied to the balance with the highest interest rate. In Mr Cs 
case, the purchase of £289.85 was debited to his account by Paypal at a rate of 14.9% APR. 
But  in the statement for January 2021, Mr C also had a purchase balance of £987.60 at 
the higher rate of 19.9% APR. So  Paypal applied the refund to that balance. I can see that in the February 2021 statement, the purchase balance reduced to £674.07 (at 19.9% APR). 
So  the refund of £289.85 was applied to that purchase balance. But  the original 
purchase of £289.85 was also showing at a rate of 14.9% APR - which runs through to 9 
February 2023. And  payments of £13.92 a month are being made on that amount. But  it 
can be seen that overall, Mr C was better off  as Paypal applied the refund to the higher 
rate borrowing first  to do the best thing for Mr C. I can see thats what they did here, and 
while I can see how Mr C found it confusing  Paypal acted fairly and in line with their terms 
and conditions.
Mr C later raised with us that in August 2021  his statement showed a purchase balance of 
£278.88  but he hadnt made any purchases. So  he couldnt understand what was going 
on. We asked Paypal about this. They explained that the purchase balance is made up of 
any new purchases, plus also any balances that run off from promotional balances. So, the 
balance of £278.88 on Mr Cs August 2021 statement  included the 0% promotional 
balance of £279.99 (on the July 2021 statement)  which expired on 9 July 2021. Again  
this is in line with Paypals terms and conditions. We cant interfere with how Paypal design 
their products and their prices  thats down to their commercial decision-making. But  I can 
see how Mr C may have found his account difficult to understand.
I hope that clarifies things for Mr C. So he can look at his balances himself, we will send him 
separately Paypals explanation of the balance in August 2021.
So  overall, I think that Paypal acted fairly and reasonably, and I wont be asking them to do 
anymore here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman