DRN-3188434
The complaint
Miss Ns complained that Wilson Tarquin Limited (WTL) have pursued her for a success 
fee relating to a claim for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI)  even though shed 
cancelled the agreement within the 14 day cooling off period.
What happened
In summer 2019, Miss N contacted WTL via a social media site.  She signed a letter of 
engagement and a letter of authority, allowing WTL to contact a lender Ill call L to see if she 
could make a claim.
The terms and conditions of the agreement Miss N signed included a 14 day cooling off 
period, during which she could cancel without any fee being payable.  Miss N says she 
phoned WTL within this period and told them she wanted to cancel.
In 2021, Miss N received an invoice from WTL for a success fee of £984.19.  The fee related 
to an offer from L of a refund of £4,100.78.  Miss N didnt believe she owed WTL anything.  
So she made a complaint about the fee.  And she said shed not received a payment from L.
WTL investigated and wrote to Miss N with their findings.  They said there was no record of 
Miss N contacting them to cancel within the 14 day cooling off period.  And they said that 
she completed a PPI questionnaire to support her claim several weeks after signing the 
letter of engagement  which WTL didnt think she would have done if shed already 
cancelled the agreement.
And WTL said that their records showed Miss N had received a payment from L at the end of 
2019.  There had been a delay in sending her an invoice for their services because L had 
had backlogs due to the PPI deadline and then the Covid-19 pandemic  which had meant a 
delay in notifications of payments being sent to claims management companies (CMC) like 
WTL.
In respect of not receiving the money from L, WTL provided details so Miss N could follow 
this up with L and either confirm shed had payment, or have it re-issued.
Miss N wasnt satisfied with WTLs response and brought her complaint to us.  Our 
investigator considered it and concluded WTL didnt need to do anything more to resolve it.  
She balanced the testimony from both parties and was persuaded that Miss N hadnt 
cancelled the agreement with WTL  so they were entitled to their fee.
In response to the investigators view, Miss N said the fee shed been charged was 
calculated on the refund before tax was deducted.  She thought that was wrong.  And she 
said shed contacted a second CMC after shed cancelled with WTL.  And that she received 
her refund because shed contacted the bank herself.
Because Miss N didnt agree with our investigators view, Ive been asked to make a 
decision
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions Miss N agreed to.  It states she can cancel the 
agreement at any time by notifying WTL.  And it goes on to say:
B. If you cancel your claim(s) within the 14 day Cooling Off Period you will owe WT 
nothing.
C. If you cancel your Claim(s) at any time after the presubmission and WT have been 
notified that an offer of reasonable Compensation is due to you, you will be liable to 
pay WTs Success Fee.
Ive looked at the evidence to see if it shows whether  and when  Miss N cancelled the 
agreement with WTL.  She says she did so by phone, within the 14 day cooling off period.  
But shes not been able to provide any information to support that statement.  And WTL have 
no record of Miss N contacting them at this time.
Ive thought about this.  I can see that, after Miss N signed the agreement, WTL started 
preparing her claim.  To support this, they asked her to complete a questionnaire  which 
she did.  I dont think Miss N would have done this if shed cancelled the agreement just a 
few weeks earlier.  So, on balance, I dont think she did.
Ive looked carefully at the information Miss N sent to the investigator in response to their 
view.  Shes provided a number of screenshots from another CMC about a claim to L.  But 
that doesnt prove she cancelled the agreement with WTL.
And I saw Miss N said shed contacted L directly.  So I asked for enquiries to be made with L 
to see if they could confirm who they dealt with about Miss Ns claim.
Ls response says:
Our records show that the PPI complaint was logged following a submission to our PPI 
Checker tool by Wilson Tarquin on 22/07/2019. 
.
Furthermore, theres no record anywhere of the customer having revoked this authority at 
any point during the complaint journey.
Im satisfied from this that it was WTLs work which led to a refund being made to Miss N.  
That means theyre entitled to their fee, in line with the terms and conditions she signed.  
And that they dont need to do any more to resolve Miss Ns complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Ns complaint about Wilson Tarquin 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 Helen Stacey
Ombudsman