DRN-3847141
The complaint
Miss F complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited mishandled a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a car, first registered in about 2015.
For the year from April 2022, Miss F got the car insured, through an insurance intermediary, 
on a comprehensive policy with Mulsanne.
Unfortunately in late May 2022, the car was damaged in an incident with a third party in a car 
park near Miss Fs place of work. Miss F made a claim to Mulsanne. 
In mid-June 2022, Mulsanne said she had been using the car for commuting to work, which 
the policy didnt cover. Mulsanne declined to meet her claim. It said it would deal with the 
third partys claim and seek reimbursement from Miss F.
Miss F complained to Mulsanne that it should cover her. By a final response dated August 
2022, Mulsanne turned down the complaint. Miss F brought her complaint to us in late 
August 2022.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought that the 
policy documents clearly said commuting was excluded. 
Miss F disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary that:
English is only a tertiary foreign language to her.
Her previous car had commuting cover. The policy was taken out by someone who is 
more knowledgeable in English matters than she is.
In December 2021, she called her insurers breakdown service. She said she had 
been travelling to work. The insurer paid for the towing of her car. 
When she took out the Mulsanne policy, she did not know the exact meaning of the 
word commuting even when translated into her first language.
She had to do everything online.
She did not want to save money. 
She told the insurer that she was going to work on the day of the accident. 
Her loss is about £5,000 (the value of her car) along with £750.00 in storage charges, 
and damages for an amount that Mulsanne was unable to tell her. This is an amount 
that she cannot cope with. 
CIDRA says that Mulsanne has the right not to pay only if she had been reckless or 
deliberate. She was negligent but she didnt make a deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation.
She has sent us references as to her honesty.
Under CIDRA, it would be fair for the insurer to compensate her for the damage in 
proportion to the difference (about £30.00) between the premium she paid and the 
premium with cover for commuting.
It would be unfair for Mulsanne to earn £10,000.00 or more on her in exchange for 
£30.00 to £50.00.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys dispute 
resolution rules. One of those rules has the effect that  before we can investigate a 
complaint - a consumer must first have made that complaint to the insurer and waited for up 
to eight weeks for a final response.
Miss F complained to Mulsanne about declining her claim. I find it likely that she also 
complained to Mulsanne about delay causing increased storage charges. Mulsannes final 
response dated August 2022 dealt only with the complaint about declining the claim. When 
she contacted us in late August 2022, Miss F included the complaint about delay.
Later, Miss F mentioned some issues that arose in relation to an accident and a breakdown 
that post-date the accident in May 2022 and the final response in August 2022. As Miss F 
made the complaints about the later accident and the later breakdown after the final 
response, I cant deal with them in this final decision.
From the policy documents, Ive noted some of the recent history of Miss Fs insurance.
Ive seen that, for the year from May 2018, Miss F had an older (57- plate) car. It was 
insured through an insurance intermediary owned by a supermarket. The policy documents 
recorded her occupation as a sales assistant. She had cover for social, domestic and 
pleasure (SD&P) including commuting to a place of work. 
From what Miss F has said, she had to scrap the 57- plate car but she didnt cancel the 
policy before it expired in May 2019.
Ive seen that, for the year from April 2019, Miss F had the newer car that is the subject 
matter of the claim and the complaint. It was insured through the same intermediary. She 
had cover for SD&P excluding commuting. 
Miss F renewed the policy for the year from April 2020, again excluding commuting. 
I havent seen the policy documents for the year from April 2021. I havent seen any 
evidence that Mulsanne was the insurer for Miss Fs breakdown cover in December 2021. 
So I dont accept that her cars breakdown at that time caused her to contact Mulsanne or to 
tell Mulsanne that she was driving to work.
Ive seen that, for the year from April 2022, Miss F was no longer using the supermarket 
intermediary but a different intermediary. Mulsannes policy schedule for Miss F said that her 
occupation was sales manager. And it recorded an above-average estimate of mileage. But 
the statement of fact didnt say where Miss F worked or how she intended to travel between 
home and work.
I accept that Miss F speaks other languages better than English and she made a mistake in 
not selecting cover for commuting.I dont find it relevant to consider how Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) applied to what Miss F had told Mulsanne when she 
took out the policy. That includes whether Miss F made a careless or reckless 
misrepresentation. It also includes any difference in the premium. It also includes what 
remedies CIDRA gave Mulsanne such as paying only a proportion of the claim.
I say that CIDRA is not relevant because the policy excluded commuting. That was clearly 
stated in the certificate of insurance. That exclusion applied to Miss F notwithstanding that 
she didnt fully understand its meaning.
When she reported the accident in May 2022, Miss F said it had happened on her way to 
work. Later, an advice worker said on her behalf that Miss F had finished work and left, 
forgetting a personal item she had left there. She had gone to a filling station, then 
remembered the personal item so was heading back to work to collect it.
I find that Miss F had commuted a long way from home to get to work. The accident 
happened close to her work. So I dont consider that Mulsanne treated Miss F unfairly by 
saying that shed been commuting, and the policy didnt cover her for the accident.
I dont under-estimate the scale of Miss Fs financial loss. That includes storage charges. But 
in my view Miss F has fallen short of showing that Mulsanne was responsible for any 
unreasonable delay that increased the storage charges. 
Mulsanne is reliant on the third party to show the amount of their loss and damage. In 
respect of its claim for reimbursement of its outlay to the third party, I expect Mulsanne to 
keep Miss F informed and to deal positively and sympathetically with any financial hardship.
However, I dont conclude that Mulsanne treated Miss F unfairly by declining her claim. I 
dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne to pay for Miss Fs car or the storage 
charges or not to ask her to reimburse its outlay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman