DRN-3769720
The complaint
Mrs W has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to her purchase of 
some solar panels.
Mrs W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mrs W bought solar panels for her home in September 2016. The purchase was funded by a 
ten-year loan from Ikano, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and 
omissions of the installer. Mrs W says the installer misled her into believing that the panels 
would be self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator didnt think that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mrs W and found no reason to uphold the complaint. The 
CMC did not agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the sales documentation sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels 
very clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
I have seen a one-page document titled Estimated Returns. It is signed by Mrs W. Just 
above her signature is the following:
On the right, there is a box labelled Shortfall, containing the figure £39.47. I think this figure 
is conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. Right next to that is the estimated monthly 
benefit figure, £62.38, and then next to that is the monthly payment figure, which here is 
rounded down to £100 (I will come back to this). So it was made very obvious that the 
monthly loan payment would exceed the monthly benefit from the panels, and that there 
would be a shortfall of nearly £40 a month which Mrs W would have to make up out of her 
own pocket. As Ive said, Mrs W signed at the bottom of this page, so I am satisfied that 
these figures were brought to her attention at the point of sale.
(The correct monthly loan payment was actually £102.42. Subtracting £62.38 from that gives 
a shortfall of £40.04. But the difference between that and the figure shown in the Estimated 
Returns sheet is only 57p, and so I dont think that is enough to have been misleading. What 
matters here is that the document plainly showed that there would be a shortfall.)
Another way of looking at this document is to see that the cash price was given as £7,895, 
and that the benefit figure in the first year would be £748.52. (Because one of the numbers 
has been written over, this same figure is given again just outside the box.) The interest on 
the loan does not appear on this document, and so I think that Mrs W could be forgiven for 
overlooking it. However, one tenth of the amount borrowed would clearly come to £789.50 
each year. That is about £41 more than the benefit figure for the first year. Again, I think this 
is clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mrs W about the benefits 
and cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not make enough money to pay for 
her electricity bills or to cover the cost of the panels during the loan term, and so I dont think 
it is plausible than the salesman told her otherwise. It does not seem likely to me that the 
salesman told her the panels would pay for themselves at the same time as asking her to 
sign a piece of paper that said they would not.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman