DRN-3962357
The complaint
Mr G complains that Telefonica UK Limited treated him unfairly in relation to his fixed sum 
loan with it.
What happened
Mr G entered into a fixed sum loan with Telefonica to finance the purchase of an electronic 
device in March 2020. I understand he was also provided with an unregulated service 
agreement for airtime. A short time later, both agreements were terminated due to non- 
payment.
In June 2021 Mr G raised a complaint with Telefonica. He said that defaults had been 
recorded in relation to the matter in December 2020, but he hadnt received a default notice. 
He also said that Telefonica hadnt supported him to come to a payment arrangement whilst 
going through a difficult period. He said that the defaults ought to be removed.
Telefonica said that the last payment received from Mr G had been in May 2020, and it had 
written to him regarding the matter each month from June to August 2020 without response. 
Telefonica considered the information it had recorded with credit reference agencies (CRAs) 
was accurate.
Mr G disagreed. He said that the date the defaults had been recorded with CRAs was 
inaccurate and thought they shouldve been recorded in July 2020 when a default notice was 
first sent, instead of December 2020. He said Telefonica ought to remove the defaults due to 
their inaccuracy.
Telefonica told Mr G that the default notice sent in July 2020 was to inform him that action 
could be taken and that it usually applies defaults between three to six months after 
repayment.
Mr G referred the matter to this service. He reiterated that he hadnt received Telefonicas 
default notice sent in July 2020 and in the default had been recoded too late in any case. He 
said that he hadnt been given sufficient time to remedy the arrears on the account and that 
despite being told by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) that Telefonica needs to 
do more to put things right, he hadnt heard further from it.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. They said, in summary, that Mr G had failed to 
make the repayments required of him after May 2020 and it was therefore fair for Telefonica 
to send a notice of enforcement and termination in June 2020. They noted that Telefonica 
had subsequently written to Mr G a number of times, without response, and considered it 
had acted in line with relevant guidance by defaulting his agreements around six months 
from the date of the last payment.
Mr G said that his agreements were in default by 1 August 2020 and he was told that the 
associated debts would be passed to a debt collection agent on 23 August 2020. He said 
that Telefonica had terminated the agreements too quickly and then waited to register 
defaults when it realised it had made a mistake. He said that Telefonica hadnt follow 
guidelines on when a default should be registered set out by the ICO.
The case was passed to me, and I issued a provisional decision on it. In summary, I said:
The activities this service can consider complaints about is set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) handbook. The rules we must follow, known as DISP, broadly set out that 
we can consider complaints about regulated activities, as well as a few others specified.
One of the agreements Mr G complains about is a fixed sum loan. Thats a regulated 
agreement and one which this service has the power to consider a complaint about.
The other agreement Mr G complains about is an unregulated service agreement for airtime. 
Thats not something this service has the jurisdiction to consider a complaint about because 
its not a regulated activity, nor is it another specified under our rules. So, whilst our 
investigator made a finding on matters relating to that agreement, I wont, simply because I 
cant.
Im aware that Mr G disputes having received some, if not all, of the correspondence 
Telefonica sent about his requirement to make repayments towards his fixed sum loan. 
Nonetheless, the copies of those letters Ive been provided are correctly addressed and Ive 
not been provided with a plausible reason as to why Mr G might not have received them. In 
any case, I think Mr G ought reasonably to have been aware of his requirements under the 
agreement.
Mr G has said that ICO guidance suggests an account should be defaulted when its 
between three to six months in arrears. He says thats what Telefonica shouldve done. Its 
not necessarily for me to say exactly when Telefonica ought to have decided to terminate Mr 
Gs agreement and record a default. But I can determine whether Telefonica has treated Mr 
G fairly by doing what it has.
I accept the points Mr G has made about how Telefonica has handled the situation in part. In 
the most part I agree that the correspondence Telefonica sent to Mr G was somewhat 
misleading. For example, it told him in June 2020 that it had terminated his fixed sum loan 
and he was required to repay the total outstanding balance. And then it subsequently wrote 
to him about arrears. It also seems that Telefonica had given Mr G the impression that his 
agreement had been defaulted, when it doesnt seem to have been the case until a number 
of months later.
Overall, it seems to me that it was most likely Telefonicas intention to allow Mr G a 
reasonable opportunity to bring his account up to date and repay his agreement. I say this in 
the most part because it wrote to Mr G about his requirements for a number of months, and 
ultimately only defaulted the account six months from the date of the last payments. But, I 
accept that Telefonicas correspondence wasnt clear regarding the status of Mr Gs 
agreement.
That doesnt mean that it ought to remove the default it recorded. Even if I were to accept Mr 
Gs argument that the steps Telefonica took to terminate the account and issue demands for 
repayment had been premature, ultimately Mr G failed to make payments towards the 
account for at least six months. From what Ive seen, Mr G made no effort to engage with 
Telefonica during that time, so even if Telefonica had waited between three and six months 
to issue a default notice, I think it highly unlikely that Mr G wouldve taken steps to prevent 
the default being applied.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied that it was fair for Telefonica to report 
information with CRAs which accurately represent how the account was maintained. Im satisfied that Telefonica has done so by representing that no payments were made towards 
the agreement after May 2020. Im also satisfied that it was fair for Telefonica to have 
recorded a default in December 2020, given that it had been around six months from the last 
payment Mr G had made and it hadnt heard from him.
Mr G has also said that Telefonica didnt do enough to help during a difficult time. Hes 
suggested that it couldve written to its customers to offer support. However, Im satisfied 
that Telefonica did enough by writing to Mr G about his requirements under the agreement a 
number of times. I think Mr G ought reasonably to have known that he wasnt meeting his 
requirements under his agreement and couldve engaged with Telefonica about it. I dont find 
that Telefonica ought to have done more.
Lastly, Mr G says that Telefonica failed to respond to him following a recommendation from 
the ICO to review what had happened in February 2022. However, Telefonica has 
demonstrated that it emailed Mr G in April 2022 at the address hed provided when he raised 
a complaint. Its email specifically referred to the ICO recommendation and clarified that it 
was satisfied a default had been recorded accurately, six months from the date of the last 
payment.
In conclusion, I accept that Telefonica couldve handled matters better. However, Im 
satisfied that it was fair for it to have recorded a default in relation to Mr Gs fixed sum loan 
when it did. So, I dont intend to require it to take any further action.
Telefonica made no further points. Mr G made a number of detailed points about whether or 
not Telefonica had followed the relevant guidance in applying a default. In summary he said;
- His complaint isnt about the fairness of the default, rather, its about Telefonica not 
following the relevant process.
- He was in financial difficulty and didnt make the payments he was required to, but by 
not following the correct process Telefonica had not allowed him sufficient time to 
catch up on payments.
- He suggested that if Telefonica had given him the time it ought to have, it might have 
avoided the events which subsequently followed.
Mr G went into detail about ICO guidance relating to the registration of a default and why he 
didnt think that Telefonica had followed it. Particularly by taking action prematurely, not 
giving him enough time to make payments and giving the impression a default had been 
recorded when it hadnt, and wasnt, until a number of months later. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its fair to say that the majority of the points Mr G has now made are about whether 
Telefonica followed industry guidance in recording a default, specifically guidance issued by 
the ICO. But its not my sole consideration in this case. Its for me to say whether Telefonica 
has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. So, whilst Mr G might not want a 
perspective on whether the default was applied fairly, thats what I can offer here. 
As my provisional decision explained, I accept that Telefonicas correspondence was 
perhaps premature and couldve been ambiguous about the payments required and when. 
Its worth noting that Mr G said that he didnt receive any default notice from Telefonica. If that was the case, then I think what Telefonica said in its letters is unlikely to have caused 
Mr G to act differently in some way.
Nonetheless Ive seen that the correspondence Telefonica sent to Mr G was correctly 
addressed, so Ive no reason to believe they werent delivered to Mr G successfully. Given 
that, as well as the wider situation, I think Mr G ought reasonably to have been aware of the 
need to make the payments he was required to and the potential consequences of not doing 
so.
Despite this, I Mr G think he accepts that he failed to make the required payments under his 
agreement and made no contact with Telefonica for in excess of six months. I also think its 
clear that Telefonicas intention was to allow Mr G a reasonable opportunity to make 
payments towards the account and avoid a default being recorded. Im satisfied of that by 
the fact that it waited six months before recording a default with CRAs.
Taking all of the above into account, I think it was fair for Telefonica to have recorded a 
default around six months after Mr G stopped making payments. In my view it would not be 
fair, nor representative of how the account was handled, to require Telefonica to remove that 
default on the basis of a technicality of not having followed industry guidance.
Overall, whilst I accept that Telefonica couldve handled things better, I maintain the view 
that the default Telefonica recorded is a fair representation of how Mr Gs account was 
handled. I find it unlikely that any ambiguous information in Telefonicas correspondence had 
an impact on Mr Gs ability or will to make the repayments he was required to, so, I find no 
reason to ask Telefonica to remove the default it recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Stephen Trapp
Ombudsman