DRN-2394199
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt given a cash refund of 
the premiums they paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs A bought an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, insured by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 27 January 2020, to cover any trips of up to 31 days duration 
taken in Europe. The policy year started on 25 April 2020 and ended on 24 April 2021. 
Mr and Mrs A paid £520.64 for annual multi-trip travel insurance cover including excess 
waiver cover, which covered their declared medical conditions. 
On 1st April 2020 Mr A contacted the broker to cancel his and Mrs As travel insurance 
policy. Their package holiday provider had cancelled their holiday following government 
restrictions due to Covid-19 and had given a full refund. Mr A said the cover under the policy 
hadnt started and they a wanted a full cash refund.  
Great Lakes said it could cancel the policy and provide Mr and Mrs A with a credit voucher of 
the full premium of £520.64 as the policy cover hadnt started. The voucher could be used 
within 36 months and be used on insurance for UK based holidays should Mr and Mrs A 
choose not to holiday abroad.
Great Lakes wouldnt give a cash refund as the cancellation was outside the 14 day cooling 
off period and under the policy terms no refund is due outside that period.  
Mr and Mrs A complained to Great Lakes and then brought their complaint to our service. 
They said during the 14 day cooling off period they were still going on holiday and then their 
package provider cancelled the flights and holiday. They thought if the package provider 
could give a full refund of the holiday costs Great Lakes should give a full cash refund of 
their premiums. They also said that given their ages and the ongoing Covid-19 situation they 
were unlikely to use a voucher for a future holiday and would accept a percentage of the 
premium they paid if they could have the cash .
Before I made my decision I asked Great Lakes to clarify when the 36 months for the  
voucher expired. It said the voucher is valid until 1 April 2023, which is 36 months from when 
Mr and Mrs A cancelled the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs A held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
Mr and Mrs A didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. 
The policy terms and conditions 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs As insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract and say:
You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or receipt 
of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any premium you 
have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or have made, or 
intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no 
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional 
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us 
declining to cover your medical conditions.
Mr and Mrs As cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to 
them than is required by industry rules. But Mr and Mrs As policy was purchased on 
27 January 2020 and cancelled on 1 April 2020. That was more than 14 days after they 
bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the 
individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr and Mrs A are entitled to any refund of premiums under the 
terms and conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand why any travel plans which Mr and Mrs A might have had during the policy year 
 and therefore the need for this annual multi-trip insurance policy  changed due to 
circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs As contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances 
surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. For this reason, Great Lakes chose as a goodwill gesture to offer 
Mr and Mrs A a credit voucher of £520.64 which could be used towards a new policy, within 
three years and for holidays abroad or in the UK. The value of the voucher is for the full 
premium Mr and Mrs A paid for the policy, which is fair as the policy cover hadnt started 
before the policy was cancelled.
Ive seen the points Mr and Mrs A have made about why they think Great Lakes should give 
them a cash refund. I do understand that it was the package provider who cancelled the 
holiday due to government restrictions and the cancellation wasnt Mr and Mrs As fault.
I note the package provider gave a full cash refund of the holiday costs. But the package  
provider is subject to laws and regulations which require a package provider to pay a full 
refund in certain circumstances. Those same laws and regulations dont apply to insurers 
and I have to decide whether Great Lakes offer was fair and reasonable in light of the law, 
regulations, industry guidance and contractual terms that apply to Great Lakes.
I also understand that when Mr and Mrs A cancelled the policy the policy cover hadnt yet 
started. But the 14 day cooling off period referred to in the industry guidance and policy 
terms is the 14 days from the date the policy was issued, or the policy documents received. 
Its not 14 days from the date cover begins.
Mr and Mrs A also said that given their ages and the Covid-19 situation they couldnt think  
three years ahead. I appreciate it may be some time before they feel comfortable travelling 
abroad again but the voucher can be used for insurance for UK based holidays as well as 
abroad.
Ultimately, under the policy terms and industry guidance Great Lakes didnt have to offer any 
cash refund of premium or voucher when the policy was cancelled. Its offer of a credit 
voucher for the full premium towards a new policy goes beyond what it needed to do. I dont 
think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I think the voucher 
is a fair offer in the circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman