DRN-2068232
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didnt actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Ms G says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Ms G opened a store card account in November 2001. AXAs records show that a few 
months later, during a phone call, she took out a PPI policy to protect her monthly store card 
payments.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Ms Gs card each 
month if shed been unable to work because of injury or sickness, or if shed lost her job. It 
also included some purchase and price protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the compliant. Ms G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied from AXAs internal records that the policy was added to Ms Gs store card 
following a phone call. AXA hasnt been able to provide a recording of the phone call. But 
I dont think thats surprising or unreasonable, given that the sale took place so many 
years ago. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, I need to decide what 
I thinks most likely to have happened, based on the information I have.
I acknowledge that Ms Gs told us that she was unaware of the PPI being sold to her, 
and that she didnt agree to it. But by the time she took out the policy, shed already had 
the store card without PPI for a few months. So I think shed have realised that PPI was 
optional, and that she didnt have to take it out to have the card.
Ive also borne in mind that the premiums for the PPI would have started to show on 
Ms Gs monthly store card account statements once shed taken out the policy. And if 
she hadnt wanted it, or hadnt agreed to take it out, I think its likely shed have raised 
this with AXA at the time, at which point she could have cancelled the policy. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied, on balance, that the policy was added to 
Ms Gs account because she chose to take it. But I can understand how she may no 
longer remember this, so long after the event.
Based on what we know about the way these policies were sold at the time, I think its 
unlikely that AXA advised Ms G to take out the policy. This means it didnt have to check 
that it was suitable for her. But it did need to make sure it gave Ms G enough information 
to enable her to decide for herself if she wanted PPI, knowing what alternative means 
shed have had of making her monthly repayments if she was unable to work.
Ms G told us that shed have been entitled to little or no sick pay from her employer at 
the time. If shed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness or 
unemployment, it would have paid a monthly benefit 15% of what she owed on her store 
card. And it would have done this each month until her credit agreement ended, or she 
returned to work, or the outstanding balance at time of her claim had been repaid - 
whichever was the earliest. Whats more, it would have paid out in addition to any 
payments Ms G received from her employer. So she could have used those to cover 
other day-to-day expenses.
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Ms G, 
especially as shes told us that aside from any payments shed have received from her 
employer, she didnt have any other means she could have used to make her monthly 
credit card repayments if she was off sick, or if she lost her job.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive explained that Im satisfied that she chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks as if she wanted this type of cover, even if shes understandably forgotten that now. 
Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, Ms G was eligible for 
the policy, and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things it 
didnt cover (for example, provisions regarding unusual working arrangements or existing 
medical conditions). And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the policy was unaffordable for 
her.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the 
PPI would have put Ms G off taking it out. And since she was paying for it monthly, she 
could have cancelled it at any time if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she 
no longer wanted the cover.
It follows that I dont think Ms G has lost out as a result of anything AXA may have done 
wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman