DRN-3125702
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mr A a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr A took out a loan in 2002, and at the same time a single premium PPI policy was set up 
to protect the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr A disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case.
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. These are my reasons:
The application form for the loan offered the PPI as a clear choice  you had to tick 
either a box to say yes to the PPI or a different one to say no. On the form that Mr A 
used to make an application, and which he signed, there is a tick in the yes box. The 
loan agreement itself referred to the PPI as optional. So I think its probable Mr A 
understood he had a choice - even if, so many years later, he doesnt now remember 
that. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr A. This means it didnt have to check if the 
PPI was suitable for Mr As particular circumstances. It was up to him to decide if it 
suited his needs. 
The cost of the policy was set out in the loan agreement clearly  including the amount 
of the single premium each month, the interest payable on the premium, and the total 
cost. So I think Mr A would have understood how much the PPI would cost. 
Its possible that Nationwide didnt clearly point out what the PPI wouldnt cover  but I 
cant see that Mr A would have been significantly affected by this. 
On balance, I think Mr A wasnt mis-sold PPI by Nationwide.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman