DRN-2597971
The complaint
G, a limited company, complains that TIDE PLATFORM LTD, wont refund payments that 
werent authorised from its account.
What happened
The director of G says that his company card was stolen on 6 January 2020 and used to 
make a number of payments. He explains that his card must have been taken after he had 
paid the bill in a restaurant using his card and PIN. He says he hadnt met the person he was 
dining with that night before and had also been told by police that sometimes restaurant staff 
carry out this type of fraud. 
TIDE told G that it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that the pattern of payments 
disputed wasnt typical of that by a fraudster. And that it was Gs responsibility to keep the 
card and PIN safe.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that the director had 
paid for the restaurant bill by 23:52 that night. He had been to the bathroom and said he had 
left his card in his wallet in his pocket at the table. The first disputed use of the card had 
been at 00:12 (by then the next morning) for a taxi and he had explained that he lived close 
by and had walked home. The person he was with had left first. A transaction of £2,597 was 
made at 00:37, and as far as could be established was online and then money was taken out 
from cashpoints using the PIN up to the daily limit - with some declined attempts to take 
more than this. The director had contacted TIDE the next morning, 12 minutes after logging 
into Gs account, to dispute the large payment. He asked that his card be cancelled but TIDE 
told him to do this himself. This didnt happen, and the card was further used. It was 
cancelled on 9 January 2020 and the director said he hadnt been able to work out how to do 
this before then. The total value of the payments in dispute is £4,814.91.
Our investigator said that he did think that the pattern of payments was more likely that of a 
third party. He took into account the large transaction, the multiple attempts to obtain cash 
from a cashpoint and the high level of retail spending between 7 and 8 January 2020. Not 
every fraudster is a professional criminal and also attempts to use the card continued after it 
had been cancelled based on what he had seen. He also thought that the directors 
explanation of what happened and behaviour in discovering and reporting the payments was 
consistent with him not consenting to them.
He understood the payment of £2,597 to have been made online and so except in limited 
circumstances G wouldnt be responsible for unauthorised payment for such a distance 
contract. But he went on to consider whether the director of G had been grossly negligent 
with his card and details. While he thought that he might have shown some negligence he 
didnt think that this was at the level of gross negligence. He also considered that the director 
had told TIDE as soon as reasonable of the fraudulent use of the card. While he could see 
that TIDE had told him to cancel the card it was on notice of the fraud and had confirmed 
that it could have cancelled the card on his behalf. The director had now explained he had 
technical difficulties and it was clear from further online messages that he hadnt been able 
to cancel the card. He noted that there was now improved general security on purchases 
using the account provided by TIDE.
The money should be refunded to G with any applicable interest and a payment of £200 
made for inconvenience. Under the terms and conditions of the account TIDE was entitled 
not to refund the first £35 of the claim but given the circumstances he didnt think that this 
was reasonable.
TIDE didnt agree. It said that a key part of this related to the issue of negligence. And it 
believed that the director leaving his card at the table with someone he didnt know well did 
meet the criteria for gross negligence. It also considered that it shouldnt be responsible for 
the transactions after it had told the director to cancel his card. It had explained to him how 
to do this and he didnt tell it about his technical problems.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
G wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
In the case of distance contracts as our investigator has explained unless these were 
excepted contracts then G wouldnt be responsible for unauthorised payments.
In the case of other payments made including the cash withdrawals there are exceptions to 
the refund of unauthorised payments. And the relevant one here is whether the director of G 
acted with gross negligence in not keeping his details safe. Negligence is often referred to as 
a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think it fair and reasonable to conclude, the use 
of gross negligence, rather than mere negligence, suggests a lack of care, that goes 
significantly beyond ordinary negligence
So, I will be thinking about the following areas in looking at this complaint:
- What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the card and PIN used for these 
payments?
- Did the director authorise the payments on the account? 
- Was the director acting for G grossly negligent?
- Should G be responsible for payments after TIDE told the director to cancel his card?
Im satisfied that these payments were authenticated with the card details based on the 
information TIDE had provided. A number of the payments were made when the chip on the 
genuine card was read and the correct PIN entered. And the chip would have been read for 
the contactless payments.
The director has in my view given a plausible explanation of how his card and PIN were 
compromised. He made two separate card payments in the restaurant  both of which were 
verified with his PIN. His PIN could have been seen there either by the person dining with 
him or say a member of staff. He remembers visiting the bathroom and an opportunistic 
fraudster would have had the opportunity to take the card from his wallet in his pocket. To 
me thats a likely explanation given how quickly the card was then used for disputed 
payments. 
I agree with our investigator that the pattern of those payments is most likely consistent with 
a third party making them. I note in particular the attempts at cash withdrawals that followed in the early hours. It is clear that the person didnt know the daily cash withdrawal limit was 
£500 and having withdrawn £200 then attempted a further £500 from the cashpoint and took 
several further attempts to withdraw that maximum amount.
The director reported the fraud the next morning. And I note that having requested his card 
be cancelled again at 09:27 a purchase using chip and PIN was made at a retailer at 09:28. I 
note the ongoing use of the card and seeming attempts even after it was cancelled. I find it 
highly unlikely that these payments were authorised by the director. I dont think in any event 
that this is now contested by TIDE.
It describes the payment of £2,597 as an online one. And it hasnt given any evidence to 
suggest that it was an excepted contract. So, on that basis I think it should be refunded. But I 
need to consider the issue of negligence in any event.
TIDE states that the director had left his wallet on the table. The directors account is that he 
had put it back in his jacket pocket. I do think leaving any item in a public place like this with 
someone he couldnt reasonably then trust was careless and so negligent. There is no 
suggestion that the PIN was kept with the card in the wallet. The opportunity to see this was 
when he entered this on two occasions. I dont think he would have expected the PIN 
potentially to be seen in this environment  in a way he might do say at a cashpoint. But he 
ought to have taken some steps to avoid his PIN being seen - and if as was most likely it 
was then seen without him knowing that again was carelessness on his part. I dont though 
see any basis to think that this was intentional or that his lack of reasonable care went 
significantly beyond ordinary negligence. So, I dont find that the director was grossly 
negligent with his security details or intended that these be discovered.
I consider the director contacted TIDE on behalf of G at the earliest opportunity. It then knew 
of the potential fraud on the account and that on his version of events his card details had 
been compromised. Its explained that if the director cancelled the card he could request a 
new one online. I understand that but Im afraid that once it was on notice of fraud I think it 
assumed a responsibility to protect the account. I dont think its fair that the director is held 
responsible especially as I consider he had taken the steps to notify TIDE under its terms 
and conditions and without undue delay. He had asked it to cancel the card on more than 
one occasion and has explained why he wasnt able to do so. TIDE says that it could have 
cancelled the card and I think it could and should have prevented further loss.
Putting things right
I agree with our investigators recommendations that these unauthorised payments should 
be refunded. As the complaint here is a company it cant suffer distress, but I think it has 
been caused a measure of inconvenience by the actions of TIDE in dealing with its fraud 
claim and not cancelling the card which I think is fairly assessed at £200. Our investigator 
has also said that G should be paid interest at the rate specific for the account. I dont think 
that the TIDE account pays interest and G hasnt commented on what the investigator says 
about this. But I will allow for this if applicable. TIDE hasnt asked that the first £35 of the 
claim be deducted as allowed for in the PSR and under its terms and conditions. But as it 
has disputed the award generally I still consider it has the right to do this if it wants.
My final decision
 My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require TIDE PLATFORM LTD to:1) Refund £4,814.91 to G with the deduction of £35 as I described above should it 
choose to do so.
2) Pay interest on the refunded amount from the date of the disputed transactions until 
the date of settlement at any rate applicable to the account during this period.
3)  Pay G £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman