DRN-4049878
The complaint
Miss G complains that Santander UK Plc loaded a fraud marker against her name on the 
National Fraud Database. Shed like the marker removed and compensation for the impact 
on her. 
What happened
Miss G had an account with Santander. 
On 28 June 2022 Miss G received two payments of £100 and £150 from a third party 
account Ill call A. 
On 29 June 2022 Santander received contact from another Bank Ill call M. Bank M informed 
Santander that the two payments were fraudulent. Bank M asked for the payments to be 
returned. 
On 1 July 2022 Santander contacted Miss G to ask about the payments received into her 
account. Miss G initially advised that shed lost her debit card, however later clarified that the 
lost card was for a different account. Miss G explained that her Father regularly spends time 
abroad, and when doing so hes not able to receive money into his account from clients. So 
the money is paid into her account instead. 
On 8 July 2022, after further conversations with Santander, the bank asked Miss G for proof 
of entitlement for the £250 received on 28 June 2022 plus a further credit received on 
30 June 2022. On the same day Miss G sent in proof of entitlement evidence to the bank, 
including a copy of messages between her and A. The messages referred to Miss Gs 
Father acting as an accountant for A, and A making a payment of £250 for accountancy 
services. 
On 12 July 2022 Santander decided to close Miss Gs account, and gave her 30 days notice 
of the account closure. They also decided to load a marker against Miss G on the National 
Fraud Database. Miss G provided further documents to Santander to show proof of 
entitlement to the funds, however the bank didnt accept them.
Miss G wasnt satisfied with Santanders actions so complained to the bank. The bank 
reviewed their position, but felt theyd acted fairly in holding on to the funds and loading a 
fraud marker.
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Gs complaint. 
They asked Miss G what the payments of £150 and £100 were for, and to provide evidence. 
Miss G provided the evidence shed sent to Santander in July 2022. 
Our investigator shared this with Santander and asked whether theyd review their position 
on the fraud marker loading. 
On 1 December 2022 Santander agreed to remove the fraud marker and offered to return 
£890.48 (the remaining balance in Miss Gs account) to Miss G. 
Our investigator shared the offer with Miss G  but Miss G wasnt satisfied with the 
settlement. She asked for Santander to pay compensation. But the bank didnt agree. Our 
investigator asked Miss G for the impact on her from Santanders actions. 
In summary Miss G said:
She experienced significant stress, including taking time off work as a result
She was concerned about failing security clearance at her job
She ran out of sick days, so had to use annual leave instead
She applied for a new bank account but it was declined, and this negatively impacted 
her credit score
The fraud marker negatively impacted her ability to obtain a mortgage
Her salary wasnt made available to her on arriving in the account
Our investigator reviewed the evidence provided by Miss G. They concluded that Santander 
shouldnt have loaded the fraud marker, and this caused Miss G significant distress. They 
recommended that Santander award Miss G £500 compensation, and 8% simple interest on 
her salary from 27 July 2022 to 3 August 2022. 
Santander accepted our investigators view. But Miss G didnt. She thought the 
compensation wasnt sufficient to match the distress and financial loss shed experienced.
As Miss G didnt agree its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me 
to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Miss G and 
Santander have said before reaching my decision.
Santander agreed to remove the marker on 1 December 2022. Ive seen evidence this has 
been actioned. But, I need to assess whether the bank acted fairly in loading the fraud 
marker in July 2022. 
To load a fraud marker Santander need to have evidence that fraud or a financial crime has 
been attempted or committed. Santander received a report from Bank M in June 2022 
advising that fraudulent funds were received into Miss Gs account. So Im satisfied theyve 
met this standard. However, this on its own isnt enough for Santander to load a fraud 
marker on the database  Santander need to show that Miss G was complicit in receiving 
fraudulent funds. 
Ive thought about this, and whether the evidence Miss G gave to Santander in July 2022 showed, on balance, she wasnt complicit in receiving fraudulent funds. And I think it was. 
The evidence shows Miss G having a conversation with A about a payment of £250 on 
behalf of her Father. And supports the explanation Miss G gave Santander when speaking 
with them on 1 July 2022. It follows I dont think Santander acted fairly in loading the fraud 
marker against Miss G in July 2022. As Im satisfied that Santander unfairly loaded the fraud 
marker against Miss G I need to consider the impact to her from their actions.
Miss G advised that she was negatively impacted by Santanders actions. Ive firstly 
considered the direct financial loss Miss G argues she experienced. 
Financial impact:
Miss G informed our investigator that prior to the fraud marker being added she was 
considering applying for a mortgage. In June and July 2022. Miss G argues that the interest 
rates being offered at this time were much better than whats available on the market now. 
But, she wasnt able to apply for a mortgage due to not having a bank account and the fraud 
marker would have prevented any lending. Im satisfied it was the case that Miss G was 
considering applying for a mortgage, but Im unable to award her compensation for not 
getting a mortgage at a better rate. I say this as Miss G didnt get a mortgage a principle  so 
I cant be sure what she would have been offered at the time. And its my understanding she 
hasnt taken out a mortgage now, so I cant say for certain what offer shed receive. And our 
service doesnt make financial awards for events which might have happened but didnt. 
Miss G advised she took time off work on sick leave due to her poor health, and shes 
requested compensation for having to use annual leave later in the year. Ive reviewed the 
payslips provided my Miss G, and I can see that she wasnt financially impacted by taking 
sick leave or annual leave. For this reason this isnt something I can compensate her for. 
Distress and other impacts:
Miss G has also advised she was worried about losing her job because of the security 
clearance required. I understand her worry here. And Ive taken this into account when 
awarding compensation for the impact. 
Miss G advised she experienced significant distress from the loading of the marker  
including taking sick leave and having linked health problems. Ive seen evidence of a sick 
note Miss G was given on which its recorded she experienced poor mental health as a 
result of problems with her bank. I think this is strong evidence to support Miss Gs 
argument. 
Ive seen a copy of Miss Gs credit file, and an application made for another bank account 
which Miss G says was declined. I think its likely that the fraud marker significantly reduced 
Miss Gs chances of opening another bank account  and although she had access to other 
banking facilities this negatively impacted her credit file. Ive considered this in the 
compensation I think is fair. 
Salary access
Miss G provided proof of entitlement for her salary on 27 July 2022, but Santander didnt get 
her access until 3 August 2022. Santander havent provided any explanation for the delay in 
releasing her funds. For this reason I think they should have been released on the day the 
proof of entitlement was provided. Putting things right
To compensate Miss G for the distress and inconvenience she experienced from the loading 
of the fraud marker, I think Santander should compensate Miss G £500. Miss G was also 
deprived of her salary from 27 July 2022 to 3 August 2022. And I think she should be 
compensated 8% simple interest for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is I direct Santander UK Plc to:
Pay Miss G £500 compensation
Pay Miss G 8% simple interest on £890.48 from 27 July 2022 to 3 August 2022
HM Revenue & Customs require Santander UK Plc to withhold income tax from the above 
mentioned interest. HSBC should give Miss G a certificate showing how much is taken off if 
she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman