DRN-2695168
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) didnt uphold 
his complaint made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75) about 
the quality of the holiday accommodation he paid for with his Tesco Bank credit card.
What happened
Mr Bs wife booked a holiday lodge for Mr B and their family to stay in after seeing pictures 
online. This was paid for using Mr Bs Tesco credit card. He says that when they arrived at 
the holiday lodge there were faulty items and the lodge was dirty and run down. He noted 
issues including, dirty carpets, mouldy shower, no cord retainers in the single bedrooms, 
damaged taps and fat behind the cooker. Mrs B raised the issues with the holiday company 
which tried to remedy the situation by cleaning the lodge and offering to replace some of the 
broken items, but this caused further disruption to their holiday. Mr B says that they wouldnt 
have booked the holiday if the photographs online had provided an accurate reflection of the 
state of the lodge.
Tesco Bank issued a final response letter in October 2019. It said that Mr Bs family received 
and utilised the holiday accommodation for the duration of their booking and that the 
concerns raised about the standard of the accommodation were based on perception. It 
noted that the holiday company had tried to remedy the situation and thought the offer it 
made of a refund of £266 was reasonable. Therefore, it didnt uphold this complaint.
Mr B didnt accept Tesco Banks response. He accepted that they would be liable for some 
part of the cost but reiterated that they wouldnt have booked the accommodation had they 
been aware of the state it would be provided in. Mr B didnt think the refund offer made was 
fair.
Our investigator upheld this complaint. He thought a higher refund was justified. He 
recommended that a refund of 30% be made and that compensation be paid.
Tesco Bank didnt accept that an amount higher than the £266 should be refunded. It felt the 
offer was in line with other cases of this nature. It said it would honour the offer if this hadnt 
been paid by the supplier.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
The lodge provided was in line with the booking in terms of the size, location and 
time available. The photographs Mr B looked at before booking the lodge were 
examples of accommodation and while I appreciated he was disappointed by the 
standard of the lodge he received I didnt find I had enough to say a 
misrepresentation occurred.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) it is expected that service contacts 
are carried out with reasonable care and skill. I considered the price paid for the 
accommodation and given its size, location and the time of year I didnt find it 
unreasonable that the accommodation may have suffered some wear and tear. 
However, I foud that the lack of cleaning and presence of broken items meant the 
service wasnt provided with reasonable care. Because of this I thought remedial 
action was required. 
Concerns about the accommodation were raised at the time with the holiday 
company but it wasnt possible for Mr B and his family to be moved. The 
accommodation was cleaned, and repairs were undertaken so action was taken to 
address the concerns raised. However, the overall enjoyment of the holiday was 
reduced by the issues Mr Bs family experienced, and the disruption caused by 
having people in to put things right, so I thought it reasonable that a partial refund 
was offered. 
Mr B didnt think a refund of £266 was enough, but I found this offer reasonable. This 
was because Mr B and his family had use of the accommodation for the full length of 
the booked stay. There was nothing to suggest that they were unable to make use of 
the facilities within the accommodation and at the location. 
I understood that a refund hadnt been provided and Tesco Bank has said that it 
would stand behind this. I found it reasonable that this now happened, and Tesco 
Bank made the payment of £266 to Mr B (assuming this payment hadnt already 
happened).
Both parties responded to my provisional decision, but no additional information was 
provided (although I note Mr Bs comments about the quality of the lodge and how he 
considered the advertisement misleading) and so I am now able to issue my final decision 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has raised his complaint under section 75. In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a 
customer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of 
credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think there is enough evidence to say that a 
misrepresentation occurred, but I think that the accommodation wasnt provided with 
reasonable care. Because of this I uphold this complaint.
While remedial action was undertaken at the time, I think the loss of enjoyment Mr B and his 
family experienced means that a partial refund is required and for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision I think the offer of £266 is reasonable.
If the holiday company hasnt already paid the £266 to Mr B then I find it fair that Tesco Bank 
makes this payment to him. Putting things right
To put things right, Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) should refund 
Mr B £266 (if this hasnt already happened).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as 
Tesco Bank) should take the actions set out above if this hasnt already happened.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman