DRN-4002134
The complaint
Miss B complains that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
Miss B was advanced three loans from Cashfloat and Ive summarised her borrowing in the 
table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountdate loan 
was fundedrepayment 
datenumber of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £500.00 15/12/2020 09/01/2021 4 £233.04
2 £550.00 18/01/2021 29/04/2021 4 £266.27
3 £900.00 16/05/2021 outstanding 4 £451.10
Miss B has had some problems repaying her final loan and Cashfloat says it has worked 
with Miss B since June 2021 to set up affordable repayment plans. 
Cashfloat wrote to Miss B with a final response letter in March 2022. Cashfloat didnt uphold 
the complaint because says its checks showed the loans to be affordable. Unhappy with this 
response, Miss B referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was then considered by an adjudicator, and he didnt uphold her complaint. 
He concluded Cashfloat made a reasonable decision to lend loans 1 and 2 loans because it 
carried out proportionate checks which showed Miss B would be able to afford the 
repayments. 
However, for loan 3, the adjudicator concluded Cashfloats checks ought to have gone 
further  but he was satisfied Cashfloat had done more before this loan was advanced 
because it saw her bank statement from April 2021. 
Miss B didnt agree with the outcome and provided a detailed response  which I have read 
in full, but Ive summarised her response below. 
Cashfloat didnt thoroughly assess her financial situation and it ought to have asked 
for bank statements. 
When loan 3 was granted, Miss B had other financial commitments that needed to 
have been taken into account. At this time Miss B had six active short-term loans, a 
high-cost credit loan and a number of credit cards. 
While Miss B lived with her parents, she had outstanding debts with other priority 
creditors such as rent and council tax. 
At the time of the loan Miss B received a weekly income, from an agency which 
wasnt guaranteed. 
Her December 2020 bank statement shows she wasnt earning anywhere near the 
amount Cashfloat says she was.
Miss B provided some further details about her health which has impacted her ability 
to remain employed and has led to a number of other credit accounts falling into 
arrears. Miss B provided copies of some of her medical notes. 
Miss B provided further details of her current financial situation which included details 
of defaults on credit cards and council tax arrears. Miss B also has to payback sums 
for her bursary for a course she couldnt complete due to her health. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Miss B could afford to pay back the amounts 
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Bs income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors include:
Miss B having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss B having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss B coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss B. The adjudicator considered this 
didnt apply to Miss Bs complaint.  
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Miss B could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss B was able to 
repay her loan sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and 
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have 
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, 
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Loan 1Before the loan was approved, Cashfloat took details of Miss Bs income and expenditure. 
Cashfloat recorded that Miss B worked full time and received a monthly salary of £1,500. As 
part of this application, Miss B provided Cashfloat with a copy payslip which confirmed on 
27 November 2020 she received a salary of £1,476. Given this, I think it was entirely 
reasonable for Cashfloat to believe Miss Bs income was around £1,500 per month. 
I appreciate what Miss B says about her bank but the payslip she provided did show that her 
income was likely to be around £1,500 per month. And as Ive said it was reasonable for 
Cashfloat to rely on the evidence it was given. 
Cashfloat also made enquiries about her living costs, which Miss B declared to be £230 per 
month. These costs related to food, other credit commitments, loan repayments and utilities. 
In addition, Miss B declared her rent / mortgage as £0. 
The amount declared for rent is so low that in some situations it may not be relied upon as 
being accurate. However, Miss B appears to have told Cashfloat that she lived at home with 
parents and indeed, Miss B confirmed that with us in response to the adjudicators 
assessment. I appreciate she says she was living with her parents there due to her financial 
difficulties, but this wasnt reflected in the information provided to Cashfloat. So, in this case, 
it wasnt unreasonable for Cashfloat to accept this figure. 
Cashfloat says these costs were subject to comparison to figures used by for example a 
well-known debt advice charity and they considered Miss Bs job, location and homeowner 
status for example. After carrying out this check, Cashfloat was satisfied that the amounts 
she had declared were reasonable and plausible. 
Cashfloat also says Miss Bs application was subjected to a full affordability and 
creditworthiness assessment and the results of this were positive indicating Miss B could 
afford the repayments.  Based on the income and expenditure information Miss B declared, 
Cashfloat wouldve been comfortable that she could afford the maximum monthly payment 
she was due to make. 
Cashfloat also says Miss Bs application scored very highly on our proprietary credit 
scorecard algorithm. Cashfloat used the data it was given to create an internal credit score 
for Miss B  this was sufficient for it to have granted the loan. Given, what Ive seen and 
been told, I dont think the information Cashfloat was given indicated Miss B was in financial 
difficulties. 
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Cashfloat to 
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information 
Miss B had provided about her expenditure. So, I dont think it wouldve been reasonable for 
Cashfloat to have reviewed her bank statements before granting this loan.  
Given it was early on in this lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for Cashfloat to 
have relied on the information Miss B provided which showed he had sufficient disposable 
income to afford the repayments he was committed to making. Im not upholding Miss Bs 
complaint about the loan.
Loan 2
This loan was funded nine days after Miss B had successfully repaid loan one much sooner 
than contracted to. 
Before the loan was approved, Cashfloat carried out the same sort of checks that it had 
done for the first loan. It asked Miss B for details of her income, and she declared this to be £1,500 per month. Again, this income was checked, and Miss B provided a copy payslip 
from December 2020 confirming she received a salary of £1,476. So again, it was 
reasonable for Cashfloat to have relied on the declaration and payslip which confirmed 
Miss Bs income. 
Although Miss B may have received her salary form an agency, and so wasnt guaranteed 
that level of income, the fact that Cashfloat had seen she earnt the same amount in both 
November and December 2020 wouldve provided further confidence to it that the amount of 
income Miss B declared was accurate. 
Cashfloat also made enquiries about her living costs, which Miss B declared these to be 
£230 per month  which is the same amount she declared for loan 1. This isnt surprising, 
given this loan was advanced around a month after loan 1 was provided. The same caveats 
apply to this loan around Miss Bs living arrangements and her costs for that. 
The income and expenditure information  which was checked with a payslip and the 
expenditure information which went through the same checks as loan 1 indicated this loan 
was likely to be affordable to Miss B. There were no other reasons that I can see, such as 
repayment difficulties which wouldve led Cashfloat to believe it needed to go further with its 
checks. The checks it carried out showed this loan to be affordable and as such I think it 
made a reasonable decision to provide it. 
I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint about this loan. 
Loan 3 
Miss B successfully repaid loan 2 earlier than planned and without any apparent problems. 
Then around two weeks later she returned to Cashfloat for her largest capital loan of £900 to 
be repaid over the longest term  six months. Ive kept this in mind when thinking about the 
checks that Cashfloat carried out. 
Miss B was asked for the same sort of information as he had been for her previous two 
loans. This time Miss B declared she worked for a different employer than she had for the 
first two loans and this time she declared her income had increased to £2,000 per month. 
Miss B also declared outgoings of £436. This was a significant increase on loan 1 and 
appears to have come about because she had declared £300 worth of outstanding monthly 
commitments for other loans  which was more than she had declared for loans 1 and 2. 
But even considering that this was her largest loan and therefore had the largest monthly 
repayment, the income and expenditure information she provided wouldve shown Cashfloat 
she could afford the loan repayments. 
Cashfloat, before the third loan was approved, was given a copy of Miss Bs bank statement 
covering the period 1  31 April 2021. So, I think its entirely reasonable to consider the 
information within the bank statements to see whether there was anything that may have 
been a concern for Cashfloat. 
I accept Miss B has sent us in bank statements from the same account as the one she gave 
Cashfloat for its assessment. But the statement she has provided wouldve been produced 
after the loan was approved, given the statement covers 1  30 May 2021. These 
statements wouldnt have been available to Cashfloat as part of its affordability assessment. 
What I would say is the May 2021 statements do show a change in usage.  There were more 
loans that Miss B was repaying and signs of other living costs  such as a water bill. But form the statements given to Cashfloat at the time, I can see a payment from the 
employer that Miss B told Cashfloat she worked for and she received £1,766 in that month. 
Plus, there were payments from what looks like a weekly income from an agency and over 
the course of April she received further credits of around £1,400. So, its arguable, that Miss 
Bs income was actually greater than the amount she declared. 
I can see that Miss B had one outstanding high-cost credit loan costing her £158 per month 
and then there are three payments towards credit cards totalling £90. As far as Cashfloat 
wouldve been concerned there were no other credit commitments that Miss B was due to 
make. These payments come to around £300 a month which is the amount Miss B declared 
for her credit commitments to Cashfloat as part of her application. 
There was nothing in the bank statement that suggested Miss B was dependent on high-cost 
credit loans or that she was spending money on gambling or betting websites. The account 
balance was positive for the whole month. There are at times, a significant number of 
transfers into Miss Bs account. These appear to have come from another account belonging 
to Miss B from a different bank. But I dont think Cashfloat needed to go further to review 
these, given the information it had been provided as part of the application and which 
showed the loan was affordable.
The bank statements wouldnt have led, in my view, to Cashfloat either declining the 
application or believing that it needed to go further with the checks that it carried out. The 
bank statements indicated that Miss B was likely to be able to afford her loan repayments. 
In addition, while Ive seen from the evidence that Miss B owed money for a bursary and had 
council tax arrears that wasnt reflected in the bank statements or any other information, she 
gave to Cashfloat, so I dont think Cashfloat ought to have been aware of it. 
I also dont consider the pattern of Miss Bs loans to have yet been of a concern to Cashfloat 
which didnt indicate Miss B was either reliant on these loans or that repaying them would be 
unsustainable for her. 
Im sorry to hear about Miss Bs health and the impact that has had on her life and at times 
her ability to work. I do hope things are better for her now and I wish her well for the future.  
Miss B doesnt appear to have mentioned this to Cashfloat at the time the loans were 
granted. Which means Cashfloat couldnt take this into account. However, even if Cashfloat 
did know (to be clear based on the evidence I have it didnt know) about Miss Bs health 
problems that wouldnt be automatic block on Miss B being approved for the loans. 
 
Cashfloat, does need to treat Miss B fairly and with forbearance when collecting the 
outstanding balance and Miss B may wish to provide it with some more information about 
her health to see whether there is anything further Cashfloat can do to assist her. 
I am not upholding Miss Bs complaint about any of her loans. 
My final decision
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2023.
 
Robert WalkerOmbudsman