DRN-4309639
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Santander UK Plc cancelled a direct debit without her authority.
What happened
In February 2023 Mrs M tells us that she discovered that a direct debit, which she used to 
pay her credit card, had been cancelled.
Santander said it was not responsible for the cancellation of the direct debit. 
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service, Santander provided screenshots from the 
date the direct debit was cancelled and a login record for Mrs M. It has explained that it 
cannot cancel a direct debit without authority from the payer. It said its records show that 
Mrs M was online at the time of the cancellation and that she cancelled the direct debit.
Our Investigator did not uphold the complaint as she said that Santanders records showed 
that it was not in error.
Mrs M insisted that she had not gone online at the times that Santander said she did and felt 
that its records must have been fabricated.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has sent us its login records to show that Mrs M logged into her account on the 
date the direct debit was cancelled. It has also sent us a screenshot showing the 
cancellation. It's also confirmed to us that a cancellation of a direct debit can only take place 
with the payers authority.
When we ask businesses for evidence they can ask that it be kept confidential, normally to 
protect their commercial interests. Our rules allow us to do that so unfortunately we cannot 
send copies of the screenshot and log in record to Mrs M.
I have reviewed the records and they are normal banking records which we see all the time. 
So they won't have been fabricated. I know Mrs M says that she did not go online at the 
times that Santander said she did, and Im sure she wouldnt have deliberately cancelled the 
direct debit. But equally I can't, in respect of the evidence I have seen, find that Santander 
was responsible for cancelling it.
I know that the direct debit was able to be reinstated and as far as I'm aware Mrs M has not 
suffered any financial loss or other consequences. So the matter has been resolved, and 
whilst I know that Mrs M is adamant that she was not responsible for cancelling the direct 
debit, and would like to know who was responsible, on the evidence I dont think it was likely 
to have been Santander. 
My final decision
I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman