DRN-4393732
The complaint
Mr Ls complaint is about a claim he made on his DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company 
Limited (DAS) legal expenses insurance policy, which DAS declined.
Mr L says DAS have treated him unfairly and that the reason theyve cited to decline his 
claim is wrong.
What happened
Mr L has made several claims on two legal expenses insurance policies he holds both in a 
personal and commercial capacity. I wont be commenting on those claims except the one 
that relates to this specific complaint which is about a claim Mr L wanted to make against his 
former Solicitors for professional negligence. 
DAS considered Mr Ls claim and declined it on the basis that the event that led to the claim 
was before the start date of the policy and this wasnt something that was covered. 
Specifically, DAS said the policy started on 10 June 2020 but the event that led to the claim 
was on 3 June 2020.
Mr L disputes this. He says the event that led to the claim was after the policy started and 
this can be evidenced by the invoices he received from his former Solicitors, which were 
dated 28 June 2020. He says he first became aware of the problem when he received these 
invoices.
Our investigator considered Mr Ls complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She said 
that the invoices hes referred to relate to work from 5 February 2020 which predates the 
policy. As such DAS were entitled to decline his claim. Mr L doesnt agree so the matter has 
been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint for broadly the same reasons set out by the 
investigator. This is why.
The starting point is the policy terms. They say:
We agree to provide the insurance described in this policy for you (or where specified, the 
insured person) in respect of any insured incident arising in connection with the business, in 
return for payment of the premium and subject to the terms, conditions exclusions and 
limitations set out in this policy, provided that:

3 the date of occurrence of the insured incident is during the period of insurance.
Date of occurrence is defined as:
(a) For civil cases the date of the event that leads to a claim. If there is more than one 
event arising at different times from the same originating cause, the date of occurrence is the 
date of the first of these events. (This is the date the event happened, which may be before 
the date you or an insured person first became aware of it.)
The issue I need to determine is whether the date of occurrence of the insured incident took 
place during the period of cover. To decide this, Ive thought about the substance of the 
claim Mr L made to DAS.  He was seeking to challenge sums hes been ordered to pay his 
former Solicitors as he feels they acted negligently when he instructed them to act for him in 
respect of a number of legal disputes. The specific issue hes looking to challenge is the 
payment of three invoices the firm of Solicitors submitted. They were all dated 28 June 2020. 
I appreciate that Mr L says he didnt become aware of the issues hes seeking to claim for 
until he received those invoices on 28 June 2020 but given the policy terms say the date of 
occurrence is the date the event happened, which may be before the date you or an insured 
person first became aware of it, I dont think this matters. The fees he is seeking help to 
challenge are for work conducted before the policy was in place, so the start date of that 
work is the date of occurrence. As such I think DAS correctly applied their policy terms when 
turning down his claim and I see no reason why that was unfair in this case. I say so 
because the papers Ive seen indicate that Mr L was aware of certain issues with his 
Solicitors at least in early June and before the start date of the policy that would give him 
reason to seek to challenge them in some shape of form. The fact that this manifested in his 
seeking to challenge their fees on receipt of an invoice dated on 28 June doesnt make me 
think he only became aware something that would lead to a claim at that point.
Overall, I havent seen anything that makes me think DAS did anything wrong in turning 
down Mr Ls claim in the way that they did.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman