DRN-3420553
The complaint
Mr B complains National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt put right a water ingress 
issue thats damaging his apartment and a communal area, or replaced unsafe cladding, 
after he made claims on his Buildmark building warranty policy.
What happened
Mr Bs new-build apartment is covered by a ten-year building warranty policy. He purchased 
the property in 2013.
During the first two years of cover, section 2 of the policy applies. If a defect or damage is 
found during the first two years, the builder is, in the first instance, responsible for putting 
the issues right. A defect is defined as a breach of any mandatory NHBC Requirement 
during construction, and damage is defined as physical damage caused by a defect. 
However, if theres a dispute between the homeowner and the builder about issues raised 
during the first two years, NHBC can, at its discretion, offer its resolution service. If NHBC 
issues a resolution report requiring the builder to act and the builder fails to comply by the 
deadline, NHBC becomes responsible for those required actions.
Within the first two years of the policy, Mr B made a claim under section 2, due to rainwater 
ingress around his kitchen window. 
In March 2016, NHBC issued a resolution report. The report noted there was no dampness 
present on the day of the inspection, and it was likely remedial works had already been 
undertaken. NHBC required the builder to redecorate the area, so Mr B could monitor.
The builder completed the recommended redecorations, and in June 2016, Mr B reported 
the issue had reappeared. The builder confirmed it would investigate. In March 2017, the 
builder told NHBC that cladding had been removed as part of its investigation and it was 
found a membrane was failing. The builder was to arrange a permanent repair.
In July 2017, following the builders repairs, Mr B reported the issue remained. The builder 
said it would investigate further, by removing further areas of cladding and insulation. The 
builder went on to confirm it would carry out further remedial works to the faade, and it 
would be erecting scaffolding in January 2018. 
In July 2018, the builder advised the faade works had now been delayed. In March 2019, 
the builder explained a fire test on the cladding was due to be completed, and the results 
would determine the remedial works for the cladding and Mr Bs water ingress.
The fire safety investigations found the cladding to be unsafe. I understand the freeholder 
and the builder were to replace the unsafe cladding at no cost to the leaseholders. I also 
understand the freeholder and the builder are linked companies, or one of the same.
In June 2019, Mr B told NHBC the damage in his kitchen was getting worse. In August 2019, 
the builder completed temporary repairs. The builder also noted the re-cladding design and 
work schedule was progressing, but the matter wasnt straight forward.
In December 2019, Mr B told NHBC the water ingress hadnt been stopped by the temporary 
repairs, with issues still occurring during heavy rainfall. However, the builder noted that, due 
to the location of the apartment, the full repair requires road closures, so the issue cant be 
resolved independently of the re-cladding works. Mr B subsequently complained to NHBC.
In March 2020, NHBC issued a final response letter. NHBC noted it should have given more 
assistance under its resolution service before the builder discovered the cladding had to be 
replaced for fire safety reasons. NHBC offered Mr B £750 compensation. NHBC explained 
the unsafe cladding had, unavoidably, delayed the builders water ingress repairs; which 
would now need to wait until the cladding is replaced. 
NHBCs final response letter explained Mr B had six months to contact our service about his 
complaint; and if it wasnt referred to us within that timescale, it wouldnt give us permission 
to consider the matter.
In June 2020, Mr B logged two more claims with NHBC. One claim was for a water ingress 
issue in a communal area outside his apartment. The builder was to deal with this matter 
during the re-cladding works. The other claim was for the unsafe cladding itself. 
The communal area water ingress claim was made under section 3 of the policy. The unsafe 
cladding claim was made under section 4. Those sections apply to issues that are identified 
during years three to ten. Section 3 covers physical damage if its been caused by a defect 
in certain parts of the building. Section 4 provides cover if theres a present or imminent 
danger because the builder failed to comply with certain building regulations.
In June 2020, Mr B also chased NHBC for an update, noting he was experiencing mould in 
his kitchen. The builder offered to apply sealant/stain block to temporarily prevent moisture 
ingress and staining. Mr B declined this offer and he made a further complaint.
In August 2020, the builder noted it intended to start the re-cladding works in February 2021, 
with the erection of scaffolding. The builder also noted the work schedule was still being 
finalised.
On 25 August 2020, NHBC issued a second final response. NHBC reiterated that, due to the 
access issues, the water ingress problem in Mr Bs kitchen couldnt be resolved until the re-
cladding works. NHBC said it was expecting to receive the work schedule by the end of 
September 2020, with scaffolding to be erected in February 2021. 
In November 2020, Mr B contacted our service. He explained NHBC had failed to progress 
his claims within a reasonable timeframe. He also said NHBC doesnt update him unless 
repeatedly chased, and its repeatedly provided incomplete, inaccurate and misleading 
updates.
The works didnt start in February 2021. In August 2021, one of our investigators issued his 
findings on Mr Bs complaint. He set out the following:
- The events before March 2020 arent within our jurisdiction. Mr Bs complaint about 
those matters, hadnt been brought to us in time, i.e. within six months of the 
March 2020 final response letter.- Our service also doesnt have jurisdiction over a section 2 claim unless NHBC has 
become responsible for the damage under the policy terms. He didnt think NHBC 
had become responsible for the water ingress in Mr Bs kitchen.
- Nonetheless, he thought NHBC should have taken responsibility for the kitchen water 
ingress, given its long running history. He noted the builder was now due to start the 
works in October 2021, and NHBC had explained it would be ready to take over the 
works if this didnt happen. He thought that was fair. But he also thought NHBC 
should compensate Mr B £200 for the delays since March 2020.
- He noted NHBC hadnt yet considered Mr Bs section 3 claim (communal area water 
ingress) or his section 4 claim (unsafe cladding) on the basis the builder was putting 
those issues right. However, he said Mr B had a right to make claims on his policy, 
and NHBC had a responsibility to consider those claims. NHBC had explained it 
would consider Mr Bs section 3 and section 4 claims if the works didnt start in 
October 2021. He also thought that was fair.
NHBC accepted our investigators findings. Mr B expressed he was unhappy about several 
aspects of the findings, and our investigator responded to Mr Bs concerns. Because Mr B 
didnt ask for an ombudsmans final decision, the complaint was closed.
Mr B contacted us again in mid-October 2021. He said the builders works still hadnt started 
and NHBC hadnt provided any updates. In November 2021, NHBC said the builders works 
had started during the last week of October, albeit this was three weeks later than planned 
due to issues with licencing and access permissions.
However, Mr B said he hadnt seen any evidence the works had started, and he reiterated 
no updates had been provided to him by NHBC. Because Mr B remained unhappy, his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
In December 2021, NHBC provided our service with an update. NHBC shared an email from 
the builder, from early-November 2021, which explained the buildings residents would start 
to see activity over the coming weeks, as hoardings, fencing and the site are set up. NHBC 
also explained the builders repairs to Mr Bs apartment should be completed by May 2022, 
and it noted Mr B had again declined the builders offer of further temporary repairs in the 
interim.
Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what points we can and cant consider. 
As explained in that decision, we cant consider any matters relating to the section 2 claim, 
for the water ingress into the kitchen. That includes the builders delays to repairing the 
underlying issue and internal damage, and the communication and service Mr B has 
received from NHBC in relation to those matters.
Ive also issued a provisional decision about the matters we can consider, which relate to the 
section 3 claim (communal area water ingress) and section 4 claim (unsafe cladding). In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Because the builder/freeholder is intending to resolve the water ingress and unsafe cladding, 
NHBC hasnt yet considered Mr Bs section 3 and section 4 claims. Therefore, its not clear 
whether those claims would, in principle, succeed. Those claims would be subject to the 
policy terms, conditions and exclusions. I accept Mr B is entitled to make claims under his policy. I also understand his frustration that 
NHBC hasnt responded to those claims or taken over the remedial works given the builders 
delays. However, in the circumstances, I dont consider NHBC can do much more at this 
stage.
Both the section 3 and the section 4 claims are for common parts of the building. Even if the 
issues were found to be covered under the policy terms, the claim settlements would either 
be NHBC carrying out the repairs, or a cash settlement for Mr Bs share of the repair costs. 
NHBC cant undertake work to the common parts without the freeholders permission, and 
its clear the freeholder wishes to complete the works itself. Mr B also says the freeholder 
has committed to not passing on the associated costs to the leaseholders (including the 
cost of interim fire safety measures), so in that respect, Mr B has no losses to claim for. 
Therefore, Im not persuaded theres currently anything for NHBC to consider.
Whilst I understand Mr B would like NHBC to work with the builder/freeholder to progress the 
cladding repairs, and provide updates to him, thats not NHBCs role. Those repairs arent 
being completed as part of claims made under the leaseholders Buildmark policies.
I have seen that, whilst Mr Bs complaint has been with us, NHBC has pressed the builder to 
provide updates to Mr B and to commit to timescales. I dont consider NHBC can reasonably 
do much more to help him, in relation to his section 3 and section 4 claims.
Whether or not NHBC could have done more to assist Mr B with his section 2 claim, under 
its resolution service, is another matter. However, thats not something I can consider, as 
those matters arent within our jurisdiction.
If the freeholder passes on costs to Mr B, in relation to the communal area water ingress or 
the unsafe cladding, or if the builder/freeholder decides against doing the repairs and the 
freeholder consents to NHBC undertaking repairs, NHBC should at that stage consider 
Mr Bs section 3 and section 4 claims. I cant comment on whether those claims would 
succeed, as those arguments would need to be considered should the situation arise.
NHBC accepted my provisional decision.
Mr B disagreed with my jurisdiction decision. He thought we could consider matters relating 
to his section 2 claim. He also noted he didnt plan to respond to my provisional decision 
about the other parts of his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr B disagrees with my jurisdiction decision, but his comments dont change 
what I said in that decision. Its not my intention to be discourteous, but Im not addressing 
his comments about my jurisdiction decision here, as this final decision is only for the 
complaint points that we can consider.
In respect of the matters we can consider, neither party has provided comments in response 
to my provisional decision. Having reconsidered the arguments and information previously 
presented, my decision remains the same, for the same reasons.My final decision
Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, but for the reasons Ive set out above and in my provisional 
decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman