DRN-2557286
The complaint
Miss B complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out in 1993 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided cover for Miss B if she couldnt work because of accident, sickness or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. Miss B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Bs case.
The PPI was a compulsory part of the mortgage Nationwide offered to Miss B. Miss B has 
explained to me why she considers this was unfair given her circumstances and the lending 
market at the time. Ive noted everything Miss B has said. But Im not persuaded that there 
was anything wrong with a lender making PPI part of the overall borrowing  thats a 
commercial decision and one that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to challenge. 
I understand why Miss B considers she wasnt in a position to turn down the mortgage offer, 
but ultimately it was her decision whether she wanted to proceed with the borrowing and 
accept the mortgage conditions - including the PPI. 
I cant be sure that Miss B was told what the policy would cost before she agreed to buy it. 
But the policy was competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely she 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Theres nothing to suggest that Miss B didnt satisfy the eligibility requirements of the policy 
when taking it out. And her circumstances at the time dont suggest she would have been 
caught by any of the conditions limiting the policys main benefits, such as those affecting 
self-employed people. 
Miss B says she was entitled to sick pay, and that her profession meant she was unlikely to 
be out of work. So I appreciate why she might consider the policy wasnt very useful to her. 
But the PPI was linked to her borrowing so she had to buy it, despite her existing 
arrangements. 
Even if the cover hadnt been linked to the mortgage, I think its unlikely that Nationwide 
wouldve advised Miss B on whether or not to buy it. So it wouldnt have had to check 
whether her existing arrangements meant the policy was suitable for her. Overall, therefore, 
Im not persuaded that Miss Bs employer benefits means the policy was mis-sold. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 March 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman