DRN-3061393
The complaint
Miss L has complained that Secure Trust Bank Plc lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In 2015, Miss L took out an unsecured loan with Secure Trust for a total of approximately 
£8,200 over 36 months. In 2016, she rolled it into a new Secure Trust unsecured loan for a 
total of around £6,200 over 24 months. She paid off the 2016 loan in full in the end.
Secure Trust has since sold the loans to another company. The loans are being serviced by 
a business Ill call T, who originally answered the complaint. Secure Trust has now 
accepted liability for lending these loans.
Miss L complained that these loans were lent irresponsibly. She was already heavily 
indebted, and had gambling debts. She explained she had to use other credit  including 
payday loans and her overdraft  in order to keep up with the repayments. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. At that stage, 
they were only looking at the 2016 loan. They explained that proportionate checks wouldve 
shown that the 2016 loan was not affordable, since Miss Ls existing commitments already 
left her without enough to reasonably pay her living costs. They said the interest Miss L paid 
should be refunded.
T didnt agree. It said the 2016 loan was for consolidation, so it wouldve been used to clear 
some of her existing debts. It said Miss L didnt tell them the loan was unaffordable during 
the term, and she only made six late payments. It argued that she confirmed on her 
agreement that she could afford the loan, and she shouldve cancelled it within the cooling-
off period if she couldnt afford it. It felt it was unreasonable to refund the interest.
T asked for an ombudsman to review the case afresh, so the complaint was passed to me.
Since then, Secure Trust accepted ownership of the complaint, and asked for the 2015 loan 
to also be included in this case rather than be dealt with as a separate case.
I sent Secure Trust and Miss L a provisional decision on 20 August 2021, to explain why 
I thought the complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think both of these loans were lent irresponsibly  Ill 
explain why.
Secure Trust was required to take reasonable steps to ensure that it lent responsibly. In 
practice, that means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss L could repay each loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts, the consumers income and expenditure, their other debts, and so on.
I need to be clear that Secure Trust was required to establish whether Miss L could repay 
her loans sustainably  and not just whether the repayments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines 
sustainable as being without undue difficulties. In particular, Miss L should have been able 
to make payments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise  that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further or falling behind on other commitments.
Here, Miss L has described the great difficulties she went through in order to keep up her 
repayments. So while I understand that she made most payments on time and paid off the 
2016 loan in full, I dont think that shows the loans were sustainable for her.
Its not clear what checks Secure Trust did to establish whether these loans were 
sustainably affordable for Miss L. But I think that given the size and length of these loans, 
proportionate checks would have at least involved checking her income and expenditure and 
checking her debt situation.
Had Secure Trust carried out such proportionate checks, I think it would have become clear 
at each point of sale that these loans did not constitute sustainable lending.
For example, from what I can see of Miss Ls historic credit file, she already had unsecured 
debts worth well over 100% of her annual take-home pay. This included  amongst other 
things  doorstop loans, hire purchase debt, credit cards that were at or even over their 
limits, a number of different phone contracts, and cash advances. On top of all that, Miss L 
had significant additional secured debt on top of the mortgage. So in both 2015 and 2016, 
she was already quite severely in debt before taking on these Secure Trust loans in addition 
to all her existing commitments.
And those are just the accounts that still remain on her credit file now  its worth bearing in 
mind that because of the time thats passed, there may well have been other historic debts 
or negative information on Miss Ls file which has since fallen off. Indeed, given the nature of 
the information I can still see now, I think its very likely there would have been even more 
cause for concern at the time.
Further, Miss Ls existing debt commitments meant she had very little money left over to 
actually pay her living costs, let alone to service additional debt. Her repayments already 
took up well over 80% of her take-home pay each month. And thats only if we look at the 
minimum repayments  and not if we look at the sort of payments it would have taken Miss L 
to actually make significant inroads into clearing her debts. Miss L was only left with a few 
hundred pounds each month to cover all her living costs  food, electricity, water, travel, 
clothes, and so on. Even before taking out the Secure Trust loans, I can see her budget was 
far too stretched. So the Secure Trust loans were clearly not sustainable.Miss L sent us bank statements from the time. And I can see that, as she said, she did 
indeed have to live out of her overdraft. She also had very significant spending on gambling 
 which Secure Trust would have seen had it looked at her expenditure, and which then 
should have been a serious cause of concern for it. I can also see from her credit history 
that, as Miss L explained, she had to take out further credit to stay afloat  including short-
term lending. 
Taking everything into account, I am currently satisfied that Secure Trust lent these two 
loans irresponsibly.
T argued that the loans may have been for consolidation, and so could have helped clear 
some of Miss Ls existing debt. But it looks like these loans cleared little of her other debt  
they seem to have been used to refinance existing Secure Trust lending. They also seem to 
have done little to bring her costs down, and appear to have actually made things worse. For 
example, the 2016 loan was for a principle amount of £5,100  and £4,800 of that was to 
clear the 2015 loan. The extra £300 does not appear to have been earmarked to clear any 
other debt, and would have been insignificant anyway when compared to Miss Ls existing 
debt level. Secure Trust then added over £1,000 interest on top. In all, it increased Miss Ls 
repayments from £228 per month on the 2015 loan  which already appears to have been 
unsustainable  to £257 per month for the 2016 loan. So it looks like Secure Trust just made 
things even more unaffordable for her.
T argued that Miss L had only made six late payments on the 2016 loan. But as I said above, 
it looks like thats only because she used other credit in order to keep up her payments. It 
does not mean the debt was sustainable.
T said Miss L signed an agreement to confirm the debt was affordable, didnt cancel it within 
the cooling-off period, and didnt tell them it was unaffordable. But Im afraid thats not really 
relevant. The onus was on Secure Trust to lend responsibly and to make sure the loans 
were sustainably affordable for Miss L. The onus was not on Miss L to do Secure Trusts 
checks for it, or to notice that Secure Trust had done something wrong and cancel the 
agreements after the fact. And Miss Ls agreements did not in any way nullify Secure Trusts 
responsibilities as a regulated business. 
Lastly, T disagreed with our investigators suggestion to refund the interest Miss L was 
charged. But thats the fair thing to do. When a business has done something wrong, we aim 
to put the customer in the position they wouldve been in had things not gone wrong. Of 
course, with irresponsible lending we cant undo everything  and we wouldnt tell Secure 
Trust to refund the principle of these loans, since Miss L had the use of that money. But 
since Secure Trust should not have lent Miss L these loans, it should not have charged her 
any interest or fees. So its fair that those are refunded, along with simple interest added on 
top  to compensate Miss L for the time shes been without her money. This is our normal 
approach for these sorts of situations.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
17 September 2021. But neither Miss L nor Secure Trust sent me anything new to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that I think both of these loans were lent 
irresponsibly.
Putting things right
I direct Secure Trust Bank Plc to:
Refund all the interest and charges that Miss L paid on these loans;
Pay her simple interest at the rate of 8% simple a year on all refunded interest and 
charges  calculated from the date she paid them until the date of settlement; and-
Remove any negative information about these loans from her credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) requires businesses to take off tax from this interest. 
Secure Trust must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one. Miss L can claim back the tax from HMRC if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ls complaint, and direct Secure Trust Bank Plc to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman