DRN-1123673
 
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the hourly rate DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
has agreed to pay his own solicitors, following a claim on his legal expenses insurance 
policy. Hes also unhappy with the time it took DAS to confirm what they were prepared to 
pay.
Mr P wants DAS to compensate him for the delay in confirming what DAS would pay and for 
them to pay the full rate claimed by his solicitor. 
Background
In June 2018, Mr P made a claim on his legal expenses insurance policy for cover to bring a 
claim against his employer. DAS appointed a panel firm to look into his claim but the panel 
firm werent able to locate details of his current policy. DAS looked into things in July that 
year but didnt get back to Mr P or the panel. Because of this, the panel firm closed their file.
Matters didnt progress until November 2018 when Mr P asked DAS to use his own solicitor 
because proceedings had been issued. DAS offered Mr P use of the panel firm, but he 
refused. He also raised a complaint about how DAS had dealt with his claim up to that point. 
DAS upheld his complaint. As part of putting things right, DAS said theyd cover Mr Ps 
solicitors costs, before proceedings needed to be issued.
 The issue that remains unresolved at present is what DAS should pay Mr Ps solicitors in 
terms of an hourly rate. The matter couldnt be agreed during the course of proceedings. 
DAS offered to pay the solicitors £267 per hour plus VAT, whilst Mr Ps solicitors said they 
should be paid their full rate of £340 per hour plus VAT. They said this figure was agreed 
with Mr P and is was negotiable. This means that Mr P will have to pick up any shortfall in 
solicitors costs, which he doesnt feel is right given he felt obliged to instruct them to help 
him with his claim when DAS didnt. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ps complaint. She thought the rate DAS were prepared to 
pay his solicitors was reasonable. She also concluded the delays in DAS confirming what 
theyd pay had no detrimental effect on Mr P because the underlying proceedings were still 
being pursued by his solicitors and DAS had, in any event, agreed to backdate cover to June 
2018.
Mr P doesnt agree. He feels the hourly rate his solicitors have charged is fair and 
appropriate and has made further submissions about why it should be applied. Because of 
that, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
As our investigator explained, I wont be addressing the matters raised in Mr Ps complaint to 
DAS that was dealt with by them in their final response letter dated December 2018. Thats 
because that complaint was raised out of time. Rather, Ill only be considering Mr Ps 
complaint about the hourly rate payable to his solicitors.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusions as our investigator for substantially the same reasons. 
When proceedings become necessary, policyholders are usually free to choose their own 
solicitors, which their legal expenses insurer can then be asked to fund. But that doesnt 
mean the insurer is required to pay anything the policyholders solicitor wishes to charge. Mr 
Ps policy, like many other policies, only requires DAS to fund reasonable and necessary 
costs. So we wouldnt expect an insurer to pay anything more than what is reasonable and 
necessary, so long as it doesnt render a policyholders freedom to choose their own 
solicitor, meaningless.
The way we usually determine what is reasonable and necessary in terms of solicitor charge 
out rates is to look at the court guideline rates. These are the rates a court would apply when 
determining costs. Mr Ps solicitor is a band A solicitor working in a London grade 3 practice 
in accordance with the guidelines. Thats because her law firm is located in a postcode that 
falls within that grade. The scale payable for her costs is between £229 and £267 per hour 
plus VAT. DAS have agreed to pay the upper limit and I think thats reasonable. 
I know that Mr P and his solicitor feel that the banding applicable to the firms postcode is 
wrong, but I dont agree. The guidelines are quite clear about the costs payable and the 
postcodes applicable to those. But even if there was room for disagreement over this, I 
havent seen anything at all that supports why Mr P needed to instruct a grade A solicitor in a 
grade 1 London practice. In particular, the proceedings themselves werent so complex or 
unusual that Mr Ps particular solicitor was best suited to deal with them over any other 
solicitor in any other location. And although the underlying case might have been labour 
intensive because of the number of witnesses and respondents involved, this still doesnt 
mean that Mr Ps specific solicitor needed to be instructed. Its also possible that he couldve 
instructed a band b or possibly a band C solicitor in a London grade 3 practice. 
I appreciate in this case that DAS agreement to the payment of Mr Ps solicitor arose out of 
their failure to get back to the panel firm with details of Mr Ps policy in a reasonable period 
of time, rather than the issue of proceedings, so I can understand why Mr P feels DAS 
should pay his solicitors the rate they want to be paid. But I dont think thats right. DAS did 
give Mr P the option to go back to the panel firm in November 2018, but he refused. So he 
didnt have to continue to instruct solicitors at the rate hed agreed with them. And in any 
event the agreement hed made to pay that solicitors costs was independent of DAS; he 
didnt do so in reliance of insurance cover being provided. So DAS arent responsible for the 
rate he agreed to pay. 
When deciding this complaint Ive also thought about delays in DAS confirming the rate they 
were prepared to pay Mr Ps solicitors. But Im not convinced their conduct had a negative 
effect on Mr P. He was, after all, still represented and his solicitors were continuing to 
represent him in his claim. And DAS has agreed to backdate cover to June 2018. So I dont 
think they need to do anything else.
 
 
 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2020.
 
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman