DRN-3787284
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CG) 
rejecting a claim under her pet insurance policy for treatment to her dog.
This decision only covers the decline of a claim made by Mrs H for removal of a lipoma. It 
doesnt cover a separate claim for treatment of lameness, which fell within the period of 
the policy when underwritten by a separate insurer. The decline of that claim will be 
considered as a separate complaint by this service.
References to CG include their agents who administer the policy.
In making her complaint, Mrs H was supported by a representative. References to Mrs 
H include her representative.
What happened
Mrs H had a dog covered by a pet insurance policy with CG, taken out in August 2020. In 
December 2020 Mrs Hs vet noticed a lump on the dogs chest and a wart on its withers 
(the ridge between the shoulder blades) but wasnt worried initially. However, some 
months later the vet noticed the lump had grown and thought it was a lipoma (a benign 
fatty mass), which was subsequently removed as a precautionary measure (August 2021).
Mrs H made a claim covering the cost of removing the lump (£203). But CG declined the 
claim, saying the lump was linked to earlier issues with the dog before the policy was 
taken out. As such, the policy didnt cover the removal of the lump.
Unhappy at the rejection of her claim, Mrs H complained. But CG didnt uphold her 
complaint. In their final response they said when she took out her policy, the terms and 
conditions made it clear it wouldnt cover any condition that was pre-existing or had shown 
clinical signs of existence in any form before the policy inception. They said the clinical 
history of the dog indicated symptoms of a fatty mass before the inception of the policy. CG 
noted that when she took out the policy, Mrs H didnt disclose any pre-existing conditions 
(for a lump). Had she done so, CG said they would have included an endorsement to 
exclude cover for the condition. Based on this, CG confirmed their decline of Mrs Hs claim.
Unhappy at CGs response, Mrs H complained to this service. The main part of her 
complaint was that CG had unfairly declined her claim. She wanted CG to accept her 
claim and pay for the cost of treatment.
Our investigator upheld Mrs Hs complaint, concluding CG hadnt acted fairly. She didnt 
think Mrs H had made a misrepresentation (by not declaring the dogs previous clinical 
history that CG referred to when declining the claim) as CG hadnt asked a specific question 
about the condition. So, CG couldnt use the pre-existing condition exclusion to decline the 
claim. The investigator also thought the lipoma wasnt related to the issues in the clinical 
history, which again meant CG couldnt fairly decline the claim.
To put things right, the investigator thought CG should remove the policy exclusion that had 
been used to decline the lipoma claim and assess the claim under the remaining policy 
terms and conditions (without relying on the exclusion theyd used to decline the claim). 
She also thought CG should pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
CG disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. In disagreeing, they raised several points. These included details of the 
dogs clinical history they thought showed the lipoma was linked to a pre-existing 
condition.
Secondly, they said the questions asked on policy inception were clear and in line with 
industry standard practice. Linked to this, thirdly, they said Mrs H knew of the pre-
existing presence of lumps and so had made a misrepresentation by not declaring them 
when she took out the policy. They also disagreed with the award for distress and 
inconvenience.
In my findings, looking at the clinical history of the dog, on balance I concluded it indicated 
the existence of a condition (or clinical signs or symptoms) that would fall within the 
exclusion used by CG to decline the claim. As such, I concluded CG acted fairly in 
declining the claim.
I also considered CGs point Mrs H didnt disclose any pre-existing conditions. And that 
had she done so, they would have included an endorsement to exclude cover for the 
condition. By not disclosing the condition, CG said Mrs H made a misrepresentation. I 
concluded it wasnt reasonable to say Mrs H made a misrepresentation, so it wasnt fair or 
reasonable to add the endorsement (retrospectively) to the policy.
On the question of compensation, while my conclusion was that CG acted fairly in declining 
the claim, I thought the case caused Mrs H distress and inconvenience. CG offered a one-
off compensation payment of £100. Having made the offer, I thought it fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of the case.
Because I reached different conclusions to our investigator, I issued a provisional 
conclusion to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is set out 
below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG has acted fairly towards Mrs H.
The main issue in Mrs Hs complaint is whether CG acted fairly in declining her claim 
by applying a policy exclusion for pre-existing conditions. Mrs H says CG acted unfairly 
in applying the exclusion. CG say it was fair to apply the exclusion to decline Mrs Hs 
claim.
Ive considered both views carefully, including the relevant terms and conditions of the 
policy (particularly those referred to by CG in their final response) together with the 
supporting information and evidence, including the vets notes and the clinical history of 
Mrs Hs dog.
Looking at the policy terms and conditions first, CG refer to the Insurance 
Product Information Document that states:
What is not insured?Any claim for Illness or Accidental Injury that relates to a Pre-existing 
Condition. CG also refer to the Policy Definitions section of the policy, which includes 
the following:
Pre-Existing Condition means any diagnosed or undiagnosed Condition and/or 
Associated Condition which has happened or has shown Clinical Signs or 
Symptoms of existing in any form before the Policy Start Date or within the 
Waiting Period.
The policy terms and conditions include a similar exclusion for Veterinary Fees as part of 
any claim for illness or accidental injury that relates to a pre-existing condition (or 
showed clinical signs or symptoms) before the policy start date. There is also a General 
Exclusions condition along similar lines.
I think these conditions (exclusions) are clear (and would have been clear to Mrs H at 
the time she took out her policy).
Having concluded these exclusions were clear, Ive gone on to consider whether it 
was reasonable for CG to apply them to decline the claim. As a general principle, 
where an insurer relies on an exclusion, the onus is on them to show its reasonable 
to apply it.
Looking at the clinical history of the dog, CG point to notes mentioning the presence of 
warts (skin masses) and their subsequent removal (in 2020) and the presence of a lump on 
the dogs withers that Mrs H discussed with the vet (in 2019). Taking these points together, 
on balance, I do think they indicate the existence of a condition (or clinical signs or 
symptoms) that would fall within the exclusion set out above. As such, Ive concluded CG 
acted fairly in declining the claim for the removal of the lump (lipoma).
While Ive reached this conclusion, Ive also considered CGs point that Mrs H didnt 
disclose any pre-existing conditions (for a lump). Had she done so, CG said they would 
have included an endorsement to exclude cover for the condition. By not disclosing the 
condition, CG say Mrs H made a misrepresentation. This was also referred to in CGs final 
response as a reason to confirm their decline of Mrs Hs claim. The final response states 
that when taking out the policy Mrs H was asked whether:
Are You looking for insurance cover for a pre-existing condition?
Are you concerned that after 12 months a Condition is no longer covered?
CG say Mrs H didnt disclose a pre-existing condition for the lump, when answering no 
to the first question (and yes to the second). Had she done so, CG say they would 
have added an endorsement that would have stated:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to Growths, Tumours, Cancers and 
Resulting Conditions with effect from 05 August 2020.
Ive thought about this, but to have shown Mrs H made a misrepresentation (and added 
the endorsement) CG needs to have asked her clear questions. But the two questions 
above dont specifically ask about the dogs previous medical history (or claims). So, I 
dont think it reasonable to say Mrs H made a misrepresentation when she answered no 
and yes respectively. It follows that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to add the endorsement (retrospectively) to the policy and then use this as a basis to decline the 
claim.
On CGs second point when disagreeing with our investigators view, I agree its industry 
practice for pet insurance policies to often exclude pre-existing conditions from cover. But 
the issue here is whether CG acted fairly in using the exclusion to decline the claim. 
Given my conclusion above, I think they did (although not in adding a retrospective 
endorsement.
On the question of compensation, CG disagreed with our investigators view they should 
pay Mrs H £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. While my provisional 
conclusion is that CG acted fairly in declining the claim, I think the case has caused Mrs H 
distress and inconvenience. CG have now offered a one-off compensation payment of 
£100. Having made the offer, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, my provisional decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint 
in part. I intend to require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Remove the endorsement to exclude cover on all claims with respect to 
Growths, Tumours, Cancers and Resulting Conditions
Pay Mrs H £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs H responded to say the lipoma was diagnosed in December 2020 (after the policy was 
taken out). The previous examination in 2019 diagnosed a fatty area, which the vet had 
said wasnt something to be concerned about (so wouldnt need to be declared). As such, 
she could understand CG seeking to apply the exclusion if the earlier issue had been a 
problem (prior to the start of the policy) but it hadnt been.
CG responded to restate their view the lump was pre-existing
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG have acted fairly towards Mrs H.
On Mrs Hs point about the previous diagnosis of a fatty lump, I accept she was told it was 
nothing to worry about or a problem. But I dont think this changes my view that the clinical 
history mentions the presence of warts and their subsequent removal, as well as the 
presence of a lump that Mrs H discussed with the vet (in 2019). Considering this in the 
context of the wording of the exclusion, I still think, on balance, they indicate the existence 
of a condition (or clinical signs or symptoms) that would fall within the exclusion. So, I 
havent changed my mind about CG fairly applying the exclusion to decline the claim. This 
is also consistent with CGs point about the lump being pre-existing (insofar as it fell within 
the wording of the exclusion).
Taking these conclusions together, my final decision remains the same as my 
provisional decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint in 
part. I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to:
Remove the endorsement to exclude cover on all claims with respect to 
Growths, Tumours, Cancers and Resulting Conditions
Pay Mrs H £100 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd must pay the compensation within 
28 days of the date on which we tell them Mrs H accepts my final decision. If they pay later 
than this, they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman