DRN-1346963
 
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was irresponsible when it lent him money 
through a credit card account.
What happened
Mr P said Barclaycard gave him a credit card at a time when he had multiple payday loans 
and other maxed out credit cards. He was going through a difficult time in his life, and using 
one loan to pay off another. He also had a County Court Judgment (CCJ) recorded against 
his name. He initially said this judgment was a year before his application, but then corrected 
this to say that it was a little less than eight weeks. Mr P said Barclaycard told him the credit 
reference agencies (CRAs) didnt tell it about the CCJ, but the credit reference agencies 
denied that. 
Mr P thought he should never have been given this card. Hed sent Barclaycard medical 
evidence and CCJ information, but he said Barclaycard had taken no responsibility for his 
debt dependency, which had a serious impact on his mental health. And Mr P said hed 
asked Barclaycard for the details of the credit checks it had done when he applied for an 
account, but it hadnt sent them. 
Mr P wanted Barclaycard to put him in the position he was in before he was given the card. 
He wanted al the interest and fees hed paid refunded. He wanted compensation, and for his 
credit file to be repaired. 
Barclaycard didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said that it had opened a credit card 
for Mr P in May 2014. He had two other cards then, no missed payments and no defaults. 
He had taken some payday loans, but some were settled before he applied for the card, and 
others were taken after. 
Barclaycard said it didnt know about Mr Ps CCJ when he took the card. It thought this might 
just be because of a delay in recording the judgment on his credit file. But it said it does give 
this credit card to people who have just one CCJ, so this may not have made any difference. 
However, it had previously told Mr P it wouldnt have given him the card if it had known 
about the CCJ. 
Barclaycard said Mr P told it about his health situation in October 2018. In January 2019 he 
complained. Barclaycard said it thought now it shouldve done more to support Mr P when 
he first told it about his difficulties. So it apologised, and refunded all the interest and fees 
applied since October 2018. No further charges were applied before Mr P settled the 
account and closed it in May 2019. 
Barclaycard didnt think it had been irresponsible in providing Mr P with an account. 
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said Barclaycard had 
carried out an assessment before it lent money to Mr P, in May 2014. And she didnt think that Barclaycard had any reason not to lend Mr P money. Mr P had two credit cards and one 
payday loan at the time, all with relatively low balances. And he was making normal monthly 
payments to these debts. Mr P had shown a CCJ was registered on his credit file in March 
2014, but our investigator didnt think that Barclaycard knew about that. It can take up to six 
weeks for information like this to show on a credit file. 
Our investigator said shed considered the information Mr P had shared about his mental 
health, and how his finances had impacted this. But she said Barclaycard had apologised for 
the service Mr P received when Mr P told Barclaycard about his financial difficulties, it had 
paid Mr P £100 in compensation and refunded 3 months charges and fees. 
Mr P wanted Barclaycard to refund the charges and remove the markers on his credit file, 
but our investigator said she couldnt fairly ask Barclaycard to do that. 
Mr P replied to say that our investigator got the credit limit on his account wrong. And he 
said he had three payday loans when the card was opened, not one. He sent our 
investigator details of a default notice, and a loan deferral, which he said were evidence of 
payment problems he was having from February to April 2014. And he said that the dates of 
his CCJ meant Barclaycard wouldve seen it. The relevant CRA said it had told Barclaycard 
about this at the time. 
Mr P didnt know why the evidence from two of his three payday lenders wasnt on his credit 
file. But he said even if not all of this evidence had been communicated to Barclaycard, he 
still had these problems, and evidence proved it. If the CRAs just hadnt told Barclaycard 
about this, then he still thought it would be fairer for Barclaycard to mediate with him, and put 
him back in the position hed have been in if he hadnt taken the card. 
Our investigator apologised for the typo in her first view, where shed said Mr Ps card 
initially had a £200 credit limit. It was £800. But there was only one payday loan open at the 
time that Mr P applied for his credit card. He had regularly used payday loans, but they were 
either opened before the card application and settled on time, or applied for after his 
Barclaycard account was opened. 
Our investigator said she appreciated Mr Ps point about being heavily dependent on loans, 
and at the time, being contacted about an outstanding debt on a loan. But that doesnt mean 
Barclaycard shouldnt have loaned him this money. She still thought there was nothing to 
show this card would be unaffordable for Mr P when he applied, considering the income hed 
said he had and the information Barclaycard got as part of its checks. 
Our investigator said shed seen supporting evidence that Barclaycard wouldnt have seen 
the CCJ marker when Mr P applied for his card. And Barclaycard mightve given Mr P the 
card anyway, because Mr P applied for a credit builder card, generally used to help people 
who have a low credit rating and want to build this back up. 
Mr P then made regular monthly payments. Barclaycard didnt know about his problems until 
October 2018. Barclaycard had offered support, and agreed to refund some interest and 
charges on the account. 
Our investigator appreciated Mr P was angry about the information that CRAs had shared 
with Barclaycard. But this complaint is about Barclaycard, not about those agencies. She 
couldnt fairly ask Barclaycard to refund the charges or interest applied on the card.
Mr P said hed sent clear evidence of the three loans he held, and the financial difficulties he 
was in when he applied for the card, and shortly after. He still thought this must be 
irresponsible lending. He said it wasnt his fault if lenders only checked one CRA, or if lenders he had issues with hadnt updated all the CRAs on time. Mr P said that one CRA 
had the CCJ registered within a week, and another never had it registered. But that doesnt 
change the fact that the CCJ was there.
Mr P wanted his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P had two credit cards already when he applied for a Barclaycard. Both of those 
appeared from his credit file to be in good order, with regular payments and below their 
limits. He had made some use of very short term payday loans before taking out the card, 
but at that time his credit file said that he had only one loan, for £750 over about six months, 
which his file suggests he was paying. And he had a largely untouched overdraft on his 
current account. 
Mr P said he had two other payday loans at the time he took out the Barclaycard. But the 
evidence he sent us, including different versions of his credit file, doesnt show payment 
problems or multiple loans at the time the Barclaycard card was taken out. 
Mr P says even if his credit file didnt show all of his financial difficulties, they were still there. 
But I can only consider the decisions Barclaycard made on the basis of the evidence it could 
see at the time. 
Mr P said Barclaycard should also have seen a recent CCJ against him. It shouldve been on 
his credit file at the time. But Barclaycard says it wasnt, and its shown us the credit 
information that it obtained on Mr P. That doesnt mention a CCJ. I think its more likely than 
not that Barclaycard didnt know about this at the time it lent to Mr P. 
When Barclaycard wrote to Mr P, it said it wouldnt have lent to him if it had known about the 
CCJ. It now says it may have done so. But Ive explained that I think, on the evidence we 
have, it didnt know. 
Mr P said it wasnt his fault if Barclaycard didnt ask more than one CRA, or if a CRAs 
information wasnt updated. I dont think it is his fault. But equally, I dont think its 
unreasonable for Barclaycard only to use one CRA, and to rely on what it says. 
Mr P said Barclaycard shouldve asked why he needed another credit card, when he already 
had two. I would expect Barclaycard to have been aware that Mr P had two other cards, both 
with modest credit limits, but I dont think having these other cards is a bar to opening new 
accounts. And Barclaycard decided to lend him only £800.
Mr P wants Barclaycard to mediate with him over this. But its not my role to mediate 
between Mr P and Barclaycard. I have to look at all the evidence, and consider what 
Barclaycard did. And, having looked at all the evidence, including the credit information 
available to it at the time and what Mr P told it about his income then, I dont think I can say 
that Barclaycard shouldve realised that this lending was going to cause Mr P difficulties.
I know Mr P has told us the real picture was much worse when this lending was approved. 
But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think Barclaycard knew that. So I dont think 
that Barclaycard did anything wrong in May 2014 when it opened a credit card account for Mr P with a £800 limit. I know Mr P will be disappointed by this, but I dont think his complaint 
should be upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman