DRN-4150468
The complaint
Ms A complains that Scottish Widows Limited cancelled her life and critical illness policy and 
wont allow for it to be reinstated.
What happened
In late 2022 Ms A found out that her life and critical illness policy had been cancelled due to 
non-payment of premiums. 
Ms A complained because Scottish Widows refused to reinstate the policy due to the time 
passed since the last payment had been made. Scottish Widows didnt uphold the complaint 
saying they can only reinstate policies up to six months after the missed payment and it had 
been much longer than that.
Remaining unhappy Ms A brought her complaint to this service where one of our 
Investigators looked into what happened. They thought Scottish Widows had followed the 
terms and conditions of the policy and done all they should when communicating with Ms A 
about the missed premiums.
Ms A disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms A has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear how strongly she 
feels about what happened. I want to assure Ms A that Ive read and considered everything 
provided even if I dont mention it in detail. Ive summarised some things which reflects the 
informal nature of our service and no discourtesy is intended.  
The policy provisions say If any premiums not paid within 30 days of its due date, we may 
cancel the policy without value.
All parties agree that the premiums werent paid for around a year before Ms A made contact 
with Scottish Widows. The policy was cancelled some six months after the last premium was 
received. This means that Scottish Widows applied the policy provisions correctly and gave 
a longer time than they had to for the policy to be reinstated. 
Scottish Widows sent Ms A several letters about the missed premiums which said If this 
situation continues, the benefits that these premiums pay for may be cancelled. 
So I think Scottish Widows gave Ms A fair warning about what would happen should the 
premiums not be paid. 
This was followed up by a final letter in February 2022 saying You have a short period of 
time left to act before the policy will be cancelled. 
No premiums were received so the policy was cancelled in April 2022. Looking at the policy 
provisions and the letters sent I think Scottish Widows acted fairly and correctly when 
cancelling the policy as no premiums had been received for six months.
Ms A has provided a lot of information about her circumstances during the time the 
premiums were missed. Its clear to me that Ms A was going through a very difficult time 
including leaving the country. And Id like to thank Ms A for being so open and honest about 
situation. However I must take into account both sides when coming to a decision. 
From what Ive seen Scottish Widows were sending letters to the address Ms A provided. 
Ive also not seen any evidence that mail was returned and nor that Ms A tried to change her 
address. So Scottish Widows werent to know that Ms A potentially wasnt receiving the 
letters or any reason for non-payment. 
Ive also taken into account that in early 2021 Ms A had missed some premiums and 
received the same letters which were sent in 2022. So from previous experience Scottish 
Widows had made Ms A aware that the policy would be cancelled if premiums werent paid.
I can understand why due to circumstances the policy premiums might not have been a 
priority for Ms A, and that she might not have been in a position to monitor her finances as 
closely as she usually would. However Scottish Widows werent aware of any of these 
circumstances, and they allowed a much longer time than they had to before cancelling the 
policy. 
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Scottish Widows has 
treated Ms A fairly and reasonably so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman