DRN-3977397
The complaint
Ms H complains that Amtrust Europe Limited unfairly requested information about her legal 
expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which 
is takes responsibility. 
What happened
In 2022, Ms H made a personal injury claim on her legal expenses insurance policy. She 
was contacted by Amtrust requesting a copy of her policy schedule so that it could complete 
the validation process. Ms H made a complaint as she felt Amtrust were alleging that she 
didnt have a policy in place. She said this was a deliberate intention to prevent her claim 
from progressing and that she found its conduct to be harassment.
Amtrust declined Ms Hs complaint. It said that because it doesnt sell the policies, it doesnt 
hold policy details on its system  so it needed a copy of her schedule to ensure there was 
an appropriate policy in place that would cover this claim. 
As Ms H remained unhappy, she brought her complaint to our service. But our Investigator 
didnt uphold it as she didnt think Amtrust had done anything wrong. Ms H didnt accept this 
outcome, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Hs legal expenses insurance policy has the following condition:
You must supply at your own expense all of the information which we reasonably 
require to decide whether a claim may be accepted.
  
Amtrust are an insurer who underwrite legal expenses policies for many different providers. 
And because it doesnt sell the policies directly to customers, it doesnt hold policy details on 
its system. It will only become aware of a customer when a claim is made, at which point it 
will need to gather policy information to determine what type of cover is in place, when it 
started, and whether its still active. 
Im satisfied Amtrust is entitled to obtain that information from Ms H directly. Its unfortunate 
that Ms H felt that she was being accused of not having a policy in place, but I dont think 
that was Amtrusts intention. Its a common process to validation cover which we see on 
many cases, and I havent seen anything to suggest that this was a delaying tactic to prevent 
Ms Hs claim progressing or that Amtrusts behaviour was harassing in nature.
I can see that once Ms H provided the requested information, Amtrust were able to validate 
her policy with the provider and the claim moved forward. So I dont think Amtrust has done 
anything wrong or unfair here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman