DRN-3070146
The complaint
Miss M complains about the decision by BUPA Insurance Limited to turn down her private 
medical insurance claim.
What happened
Miss M made a claim under her policy for repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation 
(rTMS). BUPA turned down the claim as it thought Miss Ms specialist ought to have 
explored more conventional treatment for her first. 
After Miss M complained to BUPA, it maintained its decision to turn down her claim. 
However, it noticed that it hadnt called Miss M back when it shouldve done, and paid her 
£75 compensation for this. Unhappy with BUPAs response, Miss M brought a complaint to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Miss Ms specialist 
had made it clear why he wanted Miss M to undergo rTMS rather than other treatment. Our 
investigator therefore recommended that BUPA pay the claim. She also thought Miss Ms 
condition had worsened because of the delay caused by BUPA turning down the claim, and 
so recommended that BUPA pay Miss M £650 compensation for this. Finally, our 
investigator thought the £75 BUPA had paid Miss M for poor service was reasonable.
BUPA didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BUPA doesnt think rTMS is eligible treatment. This is defined in the policy as:
Treatment of:

A Mental Health Condition
together with the products and equipment used as part of the Treatment that:
are consistent with generally accepted standards of medical practice and 
representative of best practice in the medical profession in the UK
are clinically appropriate in terms of type, frequency, extent, duration and the facility 
or location where the services are provided
are demonstrated through scientific evidence to be effective in improving health 
outcomes, and
are not provided or used primarily for the expediency of you or your Consultant or 
other healthcare professional
and the Treatment, services or charges are not excluded under your Benefits.
BUPA accepts that rTMS has been approved by the National Institute for Health and Care 
Excellence (NICE) as treatment for depression. However, BUPA says that it hasnt seen 
sufficient evidence of alternative treatment being tried before rTMS. It thinks this isnt in line 
with generally accepted standards of medical practice in the UK. 
Miss Ms consultant psychiatrist (Dr Z) explained he was recommending rTMS as Miss M 
had had a negative experience with antidepressant medication previously. He said shed 
previously been misdiagnosed with depression and given antidepressant medication which 
had given her no benefit, and shed experienced severe withdrawal effects when attempting 
to come off it. Dr Z explained that Miss M was experiencing a new depressive phase, and he 
also said she suffered with symptoms of acute stress disorder. He advised treating her 
depression with rTMS initially, and observing for any post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) 
at a later stage. He also explained that he thought treating Miss Ms depression may improve 
her chances of avoiding PTSD.   
BUPA then asked Dr Z why talking therapies werent suitable, and whether consideration 
should be given to antidepressants. 
Dr Z explained he thought talking therapies would be unlikely to induce remission and should 
be used as an add on treatment, rather than a single treatment. He further explained that 
Miss M was already taking antidepressant medication which she had been trying to come off 
for two years, and didnt want to take other antidepressants because shed previously 
experienced severe adverse reactions and withdrawal symptoms.
NICE guidance says that rTMS is usually considered for patients with depression who 
havent responded to antidepressant medication, or patients for whom antidepressants arent 
suitable. Dr Z has explained why antidepressants arent suitable for Miss M. 
Although BUPA thinks Miss M ought to have tried talking therapies first, Dr Z has explained 
that he thinks this should be used in addition to the rTMS. As Miss Ms treating specialist, 
Dr Z was best placed to decide on the most appropriate treatment for her. Noticeably, the 
NICE guidance for rTMS doesnt suggest that it should only be used when other non-drug 
therapies have been explored. I therefore find that BUPA ought to have accepted the claim.
Dr Z wrote to BUPA around six weeks after his initial request for the rTMS treatment. He 
explained that Miss M had deteriorated since then, and he thought intervention shouldve 
taken place before that had happened. He said her Beck depression score had increased 
and was within the severe range of depression. He also said that Miss M had developed 
PTSD. 
Our investigator thought BUPAs decision not to fund the rTMS treatment may well have 
contributed to the deterioration of Miss Ms condition. Dr Z made it clear that he thought 
intervention (through rTMS treatment) ought to have happened before Miss M deteriorated. 
Whilst I cant be sure that the delay caused by BUPA definitely led to the deterioration of her 
health, I think its reasonable to say that it may well have contributed to this. Miss M has 
explained the impact that the deterioration has had on her  including how her work has 
suffered as a result. That being the case, I think the £650 suggested by our investigator is 
reasonable compensation for the impact to Miss M caused by BUPAs refusal to cover the 
treatment.
Miss M has explained that her treating consultant is no longer recognised by BUPA. As 
Miss M hasnt had the treatment yet, this means that if she has the treatment carried out by that particular consultant, this may not be covered by BUPA. I would suggest she contacts 
BUPA about this before having the treatment.
BUPA has paid Miss M £75 compensation for not calling her back when it ought to have 
done. I think that compensation was fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA Insurance Limited to accept 
the claim, subject to the remaining policy terms. I further require BUPA Insurance Limited to 
pay total additional compensation of £725 (less any amount already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman