DRN-1899658
The complaint
Mr W complains Santander Consumer (UK) Plc have withheld his deposit for a car he 
rejected which he acquired under a conditional sale agreement.
What happened
In August 2018, Mr W acquired a used car under a conditional sale agreement. Mr W paid a 
£500 deposit and the cash price of the car was £17,500.00. The monthly repayments for the 
car were for £296.60 followed by one final payment of £5,444.00.
In September 2018, Mr W complained to Santander as hed noticed the car was losing water 
and it was overheating. Mr W says he noticed other faults with the car such as the bonnet 
being misaligned as a result of missing bolts, various paintwork issues, no spare key and 
also that the tyres were worn beyond the legal limit. In addition to these issues, Mr W had 
noticed a mileage discrepancy between what was on the MOT certificate and what was on 
the cars documents at the point of supply. 
A few days later, Santander instructed an independent inspection of Mr Ws car. The report 
identified an issue with the cooling system, misaligned bonnet and also noted that two of the 
tyres needed replacing. The report didnt identify an issue with the car overheating. At this 
point, the faults werent deemed as proportionate to rejection of the car. So, the dealership 
repaired the faults.
In October 2018, Mr W told Santander the car was overheating. At this point, Santander 
arranged for the car to be looked at again at the dealership. However, they found no 
evidence of the issue Mr W says he was experiencing.
 
In November 2018, Mr W contacted Santander again to report that the car was overheating, 
and Mr W said he wanted to reject the car. However, Santander advised Mr W to provide 
them with evidence that the car was overheating because the independent inspectors they 
previously appointed found no evidence of this issue. Santander paid Mr W £30 
compensation for the mileage discrepancy that was previously noted of 173 miles.
In December 2018, Mr W provided Santander with a quote from a third-party garage which 
confirmed there was an issue with the car overheating.
Santander arranged for the independent inspector to look at the car again. The inspector 
wasnt able to identify an issue with the car overheating but did note a few paintwork issues 
which the dealership agreed to rectify.
 
Mr W then contacted Santander again to let them know that hed taken his car to a third-
party garage who had identified there was an issue with the cars heating matrix. Mr W said 
the overheating issue usually occurred after an hour of driving the car. So, Santander agreed 
for the independent inspector to carry out an extended road test and the car was driven over 
880 miles. During this, the inspector identified the car overheated several times and the 
coolant levels dropped significantly.
As a result of these findings, Santander allowed Mr W to reject the car in February 2019. 
The dealership advised they would be charging Mr W 30p per mile for his usage  which 
was 5,996 miles (not including the 880 miles completed during the road test). So, the 
dealership calculated that Mr W owed £1,789.80 for the mileage he completed. The 
dealership then deducted the £500 deposit Mr W paid, leaving a settlement figure of 
£1,289.00. However, as a gesture of goodwill, they reduced this to a total of £1,200.00. 
Santander said instead of refunding Mr Ws five monthly repayments (which was £1,483.00) 
they kept the £1,200.00. Santander paid Mr W the £283 difference and £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused. Mr W says he wants his £500 deposit and also 
doesnt think its fair hes being charged for the mileage completed. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ws concerns. Ultimately, she didnt think it was fair that, in 
this particular case, Mr W was being charged 30p per mile. She said Santander had retained 
approximately 70% of Mr Ws monthly payments which she thought was fair. However, she 
didnt think it was fair for Santander to keep Mr Ws deposit. So, she asked Santander to 
refund Mr W the £500 deposit and pay an additional £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
Santander disagreed. They remained of the opinion that the usage charge for was fair and in 
line with government guidelines. So, the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has rejected the car and Santander have unwound the agreement. So, the outstanding 
issue for me to consider in this case is fair usage and the amount Mr W is being charged.
Santander have told us that theyve considered the governments guidelines on mileage 
allowance and what a fair charge per mile is. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says a finance 
company is entitled to make a deduction for fair use when the goods have been rejected. It 
doesnt set out what rate or method should be used. Mr Ws finance agreement doesnt set 
out what deductions can be made in the event of a rejection either. While charging 30p per 
mile may be fair in some cases, Im mindful that there isnt an industry standard for what a 
fair usage charge should be. 
Our approach is to look at all of the circumstances and decide what is fair and reasonable. In 
normal circumstances, a monthly instalment is a good starting point for a fair months usage 
charge. 
At the time the car was rejected, Mr W made five monthly payments towards the agreement 
 Santander have provided evidence to show the February 2019 direct debt went unpaid. 
So, in total, Mr W paid £1,483.00 towards the agreement. Santander say instead of 
refunding Mr W his monthly repayments, they kept £1,200.00 of this amount and refunded 
Mr W the remaining amount which was £283. 
Ive looked at Mr Ws finance agreement and cant see there was a mileage allowance 
agreed for him. I also cant see any mention on the agreement that Mr W will be charged at 
30p per mile or excess mile. Mr W completed 5,996 miles during the five months he had the 
car. Having thought about this, I dont think the mileage Mr W completed was excessive. Ive 
also thought about the multiple trips Mr W had to make to have the car inspected and also 
repaired, which I think naturally increased the overall mileage Mr W did. Mr W wasnt able to use the car in the way that he wanted  he said the car often 
overheated after driving it for an hour and he also had to return it several times to the garage 
for repairs. So, I think Mr Ws use of the car was impaired. Had Santander not kept the 
£1,200, I think its likely I would have said that I think its fair Mr W pays his monthly 
instalments for usage but that there should be a deduction made for the impaired use. 
Having thought about what I think a fair reduction would be, I think I would have 
recommended a deduction of around 20% of the overall monthly payments made which 
would have been around £1,187. So, taking into account the £1,200 Santander have kept, I 
think this is a fair amount for usage.
I note Santander have said Mr W wont be getting his £500 deposit back, but I dont think this 
is fair. I say this because now that Mr W has rejected the car, he has to effectively start 
again in terms of finding a new car thats suitable for him. Ive already explained what I think 
a fair amount for usage is, so I think Mr W should get his deposit back.
I also think Mr W should be compensated for the trouble and upset that this has caused him. 
Mr W has told us he had to take time off work to take the car to be repaired and inspected, 
which I think wouldve been disruptive for him. I also cant see Mr W was provided with a 
courtesy car or alternative transport whilst his car was being inspected and repaired. I can 
see from Santanders internal notes that Mr W made several calls to Santander and also 
requested call backs throughout his complaint with them, which didnt happen. I think this 
wouldve caused Mr W stress and inconvenience, so I think Santander should pay Mr W an 
additional £150 to compensate him for this.
I note Santander paid Mr W £30 compensation for the mileage discrepancy. Its not entirely 
clear how this discrepancy happened but, in any case, I dont think Mr W was expecting this 
and I think finding out about this wouldve caused him some concern. I think Santanders 
compensation is fair in the circumstances, so I wont be asking them to do anything more in 
relation to this. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. I require Santander Consumer 
(UK) Plc to:
Refund Mr W his £500 deposit plus 8% simple yearly interest calculated from the 
date of payment to the date of settlement.*
Pay Mr W an additional £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused.
*If Santander Consumer (UK) Plc think that theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mr W how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give Mr W a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman