DRN-1808859
The complaint
This is a complaint that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs R. 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2001. The policy was sold to 
Mrs R by phone, a short while after she applied for the card by post. 
Our adjudicator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Barclays disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive considered what Barclays has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
Mrs R says her phone conversation with Barclays was about credit limits on the card, 
interest costs and the mechanics of paying the card bill. She says she didnt need PPI in her 
situation. But Barclays has not given me good evidence that it made clear that the PPI was 
not an integral expected part of the PPI, or that it properly checked that Mrs R wanted PPI or 
understood what she was agreeing to. 
From what Mrs R has said, and looking at her situation at the time, I think its likely she 
wouldnt have agreed to PPI if shed been properly informed about the PPI, and been told 
clearly that she could say no to the PPI. 
I think Mrs R has lost out as a result of Barclayss failings in this case  I dont think shed 
have taken out the policy if shed been properly informed.
Putting things right
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI.
A. Barclays Bank UK PLC should find out how much Mrs R would have owed when she 
closed her credit card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on 
those premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should then refund the difference between what Mrs R owed 
when she closed her account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays Bank UK PLC can 
take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
 
B. Barclays Bank UK PLC should add simple interest on the difference between what 
Mrs R would have owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until 
she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
C. If  when Barclays Bank UK PLC works out what Mrs R would have owed each 
month without PPI  Mrs R paid more than enough to clear her balance, Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs R paid. And it should 
carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs R wouldve owed Barclays Bank UK 
PLC something on her credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
 
D. Barclays Bank UK PLC should tell Mrs R what its done to work out A, B and C.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays Bank UK PLC to take off tax from this 
interest. Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mrs R a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
I require Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs R compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 June 2020.
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman