DRN-2928094
The complaint
This is a complaint that AXA France IARD mis-sold Mr N a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. AXA didnt actually sell the PPI, but its taken on responsibility for the sale and 
so Ill refer to it as the seller. 
What happened
Mr N took out a loan in 1995 to pay for a domestic item he was buying from a shop. At the 
same time a PPI policy was set up to protect the loan payments  this was added to the loan 
and interest was charged on the total amount. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr N disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ns case.
Ive looked at the possible ways in which the PPI might have been mis-sold, but Ive decided 
not to uphold the complaint. These are my reasons.
I dont think its likely AXA recommended the PPI to Mr N, in the technical insurance sense 
of making Mr N believe it had assessed his individual circumstances and was recommending 
the PPI as a suitable for his needs. Instead it just told Mr N about the PPI and no doubt 
pointed out its advantages. But, in doing this, it still needed to give Mr N enough clear and 
fair information, so that he could make his own assessment. 
This happened a long time ago, and I cant be sure what information AXA did give and 
whether this was good enough.  In such a situation, even if I think information might have 
been inadequate, I have to decide whether its likely full information would have made any 
difference. That is to say, was there something about the terms of the policy that would have 
been likely to put Mr N off the PPI, if hed known about it?
I dont have good evidence that full information would have deterred Mr N from taking the 
PPI. He says he remembers agreeing to the PPI and being told hed get a discount on the 
purchase price of the goods he was buying. He says the sales person told him that, if he lost 
his job or was ill, the PPI would meet the payments. 
This was correct  the PPI would have covered him in this way. It would have paid on top of 
any employer sick pay he received and so could have left him in a more secure financial 
position if he did fall sick long term or was made redundant. 
Mr N has referred to a possible significant waiting period before benefits were paid. We dont 
have a copy of the actual policy  which isnt surprising given that this was over 25 years 
ago. But we do have other policy documents from around this time for PPI associated with 
this lender. And there wasnt in those significant waiting periods. Typically you just had to be 
unemployed for at least a month and then you would receive a payment. That doesnt 
appear unreasonable. 
There were some things the PPI didnt cover (such as pre-existing medical conditions) but it 
doesnt look as though Mr N would have been affected by those at the time. 
The price of the PPI was given on the loan document, although it could have been clearer 
about how much this cost each month and the effect of the interest. But I dont see that this 
incompleteness in information is likely to have made a difference to whether Mr N took the 
PPI. 
Although I cant be certain, I dont think it likely that even the fullest information and 
explanations about the terms and conditions are likely to have made Mr N decide not to take 
the PPI. 
Overall, I dont have strong evidence that Mr N was mis-sold this PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman