DRN-3043005
The complaint
Mr C complains that Portal Financial Services LLP (formerly Portafina LLP) wrongly advised 
him to transfer a Section 32 Buyout Plan (S32) to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr C is being assisted with his complaint by a claims management company. For ease of 
reading the decision, Ill refer to all representations as being made by Mr C. 
What happened
In 2014 Mr C was approaching his 60th birthday and wanted pension advice. He was 
introduced to Portafina after hed been in contact with another business, from here on 
referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed representative (AR) of a 
regulated business, Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C were permitted to provide 
pension transfer advice. 
Firm C completed a fact find which was later passed to Portafina. It confirmed the following 
about Mr C;
He was 59 years old, in good health and living with his partner
He was employed as a test administrator earning £15,000 a year, providing a net 
income of £1,200 per month. His regular monthly commitments were £300
He was a home owner and the estimated value of his property was £120K. His 
outstanding mortgage was between £90K and £100K
He wanted to retire when he reached age 65
He had a S32 plan with a current value of approximately £107K. The plan had a 
guaranteed minimum pension attached. 
His objectives were stated as;
-Wants more flexibility E.g. tax-free cash (TFC) with no income required 
and/or income drawdown.Opportunity to semi-retire and access tax-free 
cash but doesnt need to take all the available income yet
He signed the fact find confirming that it was a true and accurate reflection of his 
personal and financial circumstances at that time
The fact find included a risk profiling questionnaire (RPQ) which included the following 
responses from Mr C;
People who know me would describe me as a cautious person. Agree
I feel comfortable about investing in the stock market. Disagree
I generally look for safer investments, even if that means lower returns. Agree
Usually it takes me a long time to make up my mind on investment matters. Agree
I associate the word risk with the idea of opportunity. Disagree
I generally prefer bank deposits to riskier investments. Agree
I find investment matters easy to understand. Disagree
I am willing to take substantial investment risk to earn substantial returns. Disagree
I have little experience of investing in stocks and shares. Agree
I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions Ive made. Disagree
Id rather take my chances with high risk investments than increase the amount Im 
saving. Disagree
Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments. Strongly Agree
Mr C signed a letter of authority to allow Portafina to gather information about his S32, which 
confirmed;
The plan was invested approximately 30% in a unitized with-profits fund and 70% in 
a mixed fund 
The transfer value was £114,749.27 which included a final bonus of £8,683.83
A Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) of £4,158.47 per year was due from age 65 
but could be paid earlier if the fund was large enough. It would include a 50% 
spouses pension, which was defined as; your husband, wife or civil partner when 
you die. 
A quarter of the GMP would increase in retirement by 3% per year
The plan normal retirement age was 60
The cost of meeting the guarantee of the GMP at the transfer date was calculated to 
be £103,969, which meant only the remaining £10,780 (9%) could be paid as TFC
The annual management charge (AMC) was 1% per year and there was also a 
yearly policy fee of £65.16
There were no other guarantees or protections
A Portafina paraplanner completed a second fact find. It documented the following additional 
information about Mr C;
He had been cohabiting with his partner for 16 years
He had cash savings of £25K
He was already receiving pension income of approximately £3.5K per year
Joint net monthly income with his partner was £4K and monthly net disposable 
income was £2K
His chosen retirement age was 66
His objectives included;
- Control & flexibility of pension plans; Want largest TFC available now and 
deferred income later
- Greater investment fund choice; [Mr C] likes the idea of a large fund and 
asset backed and stock market volatility controlled funds
His income in retirement need in todays terms was £12K per year and he felt he had 
sufficient income to meet this need
The paraplanner noted; [Mr C] is 19 years older than [his partner] and feels that the 
extraction of TFC right now is necessary. Secondly he and [his partner] are doing 
considerable and gradual work to their house and want to continue and add 
significant further improvements now. He also wants to buy a new car for the first 
time. [His partner]s career is likely to continue for about another 20 years. [Mr C] 
expects to continue his job probably into his 70s and therefore to at least State age 
66. [Mr C] is a Record collector with a collection of serious value
This fact find included an uncompleted RPQ. The paraplanner noted; Please note that [Mr 
C] was really uncertain about how to answer the ATR questions that were previously asked 
and wasnt expecting such incisive questions with no preliminary explanations as to their 
relevance
On 18 November 2014 Portafina produced a suitability report (SR) setting out its advice. In 
summary the report said:Mr Cs Stated Objectives were;
- To make home improvements
- To purchase a car
It set out the features of the S32 including that it included a GMP. It explained that; A 
Critical Yield of 3.1% applies to this plan. If you go ahead with this transfer you will be 
giving up access to a pension of £5,384 per annum upon reaching 65.. The Report 
later went on to explain that this Critical Yield was the investment growth required 
each year to at least match the income he could have received from his S32 if Mr C 
used income drawdown in his SIPP.
The total transfer value of the S32 was £114,749 and it explained that if he 
transferred to the SIPP; This will provide you with a Tax Free Lump Sum of £28.687, 
that you have stated you will use to make home improvements and purchase a car.
Alternative ways to generate a cash lump sum were set out, which included via a 
loan, remortgage, disposable income or existing assets, but Mr C did not wish to use 
any of these options. 
Mr Cs risk profile suggested he was an Adventurous investor. This was defined as;
-Adventurous investors typically have high levels of financial knowledge and keep 
up to date on financial issues. They will usually be experienced investors, who 
have used a range on investment products in the past, and who may take an 
active approach to managing their investments.
-In general, Adventurous investors are happy to take on investment risk and 
understand that this is crucial in terms of generating long-term return. They are 
willing to take risk with most of their available assets.
-Adventurous investors will readily take gambles where they see the potential 
rewards as being attractive. They will usually be able to make up their minds on 
financial matters quickly. While they can suffer from regret when their decisions 
turn out badly, they are able to accept that occasional poor outcomes are a 
necessary part of long-term investment.
It concluded that Mr C had sufficient capacity for loss for the recommendation.
Mr C was recommended to transfer his S32 to a SIPP for the possibility that the 
benefits available to him at retirement in the SIPP would exceed those that would 
have been available through his S32. The transfer would meet his stated objectives 
and would enable him to take 25% of his fund as TFC.
The transfer would initially be invested 100% in cash deposits until Firm C made its 
investment recommendations.
The initial advice fee would be 5% of the total transfer value, of which 2% would be 
paid to Firm C as part of an introducer agreement. The annual management charge 
for the new SIPP would be 0.5% a year plus a further £75 a year for funds in 
drawdown. Firm C would also charge a yearly ongoing advice fee of 0.5%.
The fund charges in the illustration enclosed with the SR [which this service has not 
seen] were specific to the funds selected.
The SR enclosed a declaration which Mr C signed and returned. It included the following 
statements;
I wish to proceed on this basis as my main priority is to release the tax free cash to 
make home improvements and purchase a car (ahead of retirement planning).
I fully understand what the Critical Yield is and I am aware that it is unlikely that my 
recommended scheme is going to achieve a growth rate of 3.1% to match the 
guaranteed benefits held with Aegon.
I am aware that I will lose the Guaranteed Pension of £5,384 pa payable from age 65 
by transferring my benefits to an alternative pension arrangement, and understand 
that I will be worse off in retirement.
I understand the loss of benefits to my pension funds by making this transfer, but still wish to proceed with the transfer to the Novia Platform.
On 21 November 2014 Mr C signed the necessary papers to set up the SIPP, complete the 
transfer and immediately transfer the agency of the SIPP to Firm C. The SIPP application 
confirmed the ongoing advisor charge of 0.5% per year, and that Mr C would immediately 
take the maximum allowed TFC of 25%. His partner was nominated as sole beneficiary in 
the event of his death.
The SIPP was established in December 2014 and the transfer completed. The transfer value 
was £115,874.04. The following day Mr C withdrew £28,928.51 as TFC, being his full 
entitlement of 25%, which was used to purchase a new car and fund home improvements. 
The remaining fund went into drawdown. 
An initial advisor charge of £5,793.76, this being 5% of the full fund transfer value, was also 
deducted. 
From the beginning of January 2015 Firm C begun to receive its ongoing advisor charge and 
the following investments were made:
Unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS)
- Biomass Investments - £8,100
- Brisa Investments  £11,300
- Strategic Residential Dev - £11,300
- Lakeview UK Invest - £8,100
- Real Estate Invest USA - £8,100
Regulated investments
- Ifunds Abs Rtn Orange - £8,100.89
- Marlborough ETF Gbl Gth - £21,869.11
In June 2018, Mr C complained to Portafina about the advice he received to transfer. 
Portafina considered Mr Cs complaint and concluded that it had provided suitable advice (in 
line with his circumstances, needs and objectives at the time) and acted in his best interests. 
It said it only provided the advice to transfer Mr Cs existing plan to facilitate increasing his 
TFC and had provided enough information for Mr C to make an informed decision. Portafina 
said it hadnt provided specific investment advice as this was given by Firm C. 
Portafina said it had conducted appropriate due diligence on Firm C, which itself was also 
regulated by the FCA. Because Firm S and Firm C were in liquidation, Portafina had 
forwarded Mr Cs investment concerns to the liquidators as a claim should be made to the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
Unhappy with Portafinas response to his complaint, Mr C referred the matter to our service. 
An adjudicator considered the matter and concluded that Mr Cs complaint should be partly 
upheld. She found the transfer advice to be suitable but found the investment advice to be 
unsuitable. She also thought that Portafina were responsible for Mr Cs losses because it 
was responsible for the transfer transaction as a whole, including the investment advice.
Portafina broadly agreed with the findings that the transfer advice was suitable but disagreed 
that they were responsible for losses from the investment advice.
Mr C agreed with the findings about the investment advice but disagreed that the transfer 
advice was suitable because the regulator had issued an alert that said that suitable transfer 
advice needed to consider the transaction as a whole, including the investment advice.As no agreement could be reached the case was referred for a final decision. Prior to the 
complaint being allocated to me, Mr Cs complaint was reconsidered, and a second view 
was issued on 22 March 2021. Reasoning was provided for why it was felt the complaint 
should be upheld in full, which included why Portafina was considered to be responsible for 
all of Mr Cs losses as a result of the transfer and what the appropriate redress method 
should be. 
Mr C accepted the findings of the second view and also raised concerns about how Portafina 
were valuing UCIS investments. Portafina requested that Mr Cs case be put on hold 
pending the outcome of another complaint being considered here at the service. This 
request was considered but it was ultimately decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to delay 
matters, as each case is decided on its own merits and particular circumstances.  Portafina  
didnt provide any further submissions regarding the merits of Mr Cs complaint. 
The case has now been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reaching my decision, Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. Having done so. Im upholding the complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Portafina advised Mr C to transfer his S32 but says it didnt provide any recommendation 
regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was meant to provide this. 
Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange Mr Cs 
underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portafinas responsibilities ended once 
the SIPP was set up, the funds transferred, and the money then made available for 
investment. I believe that as Mr Cs financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure the 
overall transaction was suitable, notwithstanding that another regulated firm was going to be 
involved. 
Suitable advice couldnt, in my view, be given without thinking about the intended 
investment. 
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened here, I dont think Portafinas advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator had made its view clear that it considered in order 
to suitably advise on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position was evident in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers () are under the mistaken impression () they do not have to consider 
the unregulated investment as part of their advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated schemes. It should be particularly clear to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in 
implementing a wider investment strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating () If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.
The regulators 2014 alert added: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will () transfer 
() to release funds to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer () at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Portafina appears to have been under the impression that, as it told Mr C it wasnt providing 
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled it to provide advice on a restricted 
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying investments. 
Both alerts specifically referred to the regulators overarching Principles for Businesses 
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which Portafina was subject to. And with 
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts said a firm would fall short of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt familiarise itself with the intended investment strategy and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr C under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration of how Mr Cs funds would be invested.
COBS 9.2 required Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr C. To achieve this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr C to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client must include, where 
relevant, information on the length of time for which he wishes to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile, and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process Portafina had to understand Mr Cs objectives and 
assess the related risks. It wasnt free to ignore how Mr Cs funds were going to be invested 
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be 
inextricably linked to the risks relating to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
transfer without knowing what Mr C would invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind 
seem reasonably possible.Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory framework that existed at the time of 
Portafinas advice and had to be complied with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers 
interests and treating them fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice for a customer entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what Ive outlined 
above, Ive considered Portafinas advice with these in mind. 
I accept that as a result of its appointed representative agreement with Firm S, Firm C was 
required to give suitable advice. However, I dont agree that this negated Portafinas duty to 
do the same. As Mr Cs appointed financial adviser, it had a significant responsibility to 
provide suitable advice and act in Mr Cs best interests. And as Ive said, this had to include 
an awareness of where Mr Cs funds would be invested. 
I recognise that the FCA allows for two advisers to work together to provide suitable advice
to their mutual client. However, the alerts make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on
a pension transfer needs to be aware of the intended investments before it advises on the
transfer, in order to provide suitable advice. Portafina shouldve requested this information 
from Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt fully
understand the underlying investment proposition intended to be held within a SIPP, then it
should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch at all. So, in the absence of
Portafina knowing the investment strategy Firm C intended for Mr C, it couldnt provide him
with suitable advice to transfer his pension.
I havent seen anything to suggest that Portafina, at any point, checked to see how Firm C 
broadly proposed to invest Mr Cs funds. I believe it shouldve given the unavoidable 
connection this had to the transfer it was proposing. 
Portafina needed to do more to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
expected investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr C. It needed at the very least, to 
ask Firm C for an outline of that proposition. It appears that Portafina failed to do that and as 
a result, a significant part of Mr Cs pension fund was invested in high risk, illiquid funds. I 
would expect Firm C to have given a clear and honest outline of Mr Cs investment 
proposition when asked to do so by Portafina. On receipt of that, I would further expect 
Portafina to have told Mr C that it couldnt recommend the transfer.
I accept, of course, that there is a possibility that Firm C may not have been entirely 
forthcoming to Portafina about its plans to spread a significant portion of Mr Cs portfolio over 
unregulated investments. Had Portafina requested this information and it had been advised 
that Firm C intended to invest Mr C in these unsuitable funds, then it couldve questioned 
this. And in the event that Portafina had been misled by Firm C as to the proposed 
investments, then its likely Mr C wouldve realised that the investments Firm C went on to 
arrange differed to those Portafina had based its suitability assessment on. And Mr C 
couldve taken action accordingly. 
Portafina says that its advisers carried out extensive due diligence on Firm C, including 
background checks on the company directors, accounts and information about previous 
complaints. It hasnt provided us with evidence of the due diligence it carried out on Firm C 
in connection with this complaint. But even if Portafina had carried the general due diligence 
checks it has mentioned, I dont think that negated the need to check the specific investment 
Firm C envisaged for Mr C. 
I also havent seen any evidence that further checks were made by Portafina to satisfy itself 
that the pension transfer advice it was giving to clients was aligned with the investment 
advice they were receiving from Firm C. The need to do so was a necessary part of the suitability assessment carried out by Portafina for individual clients. But I think it was also a 
reasonable due diligence requirement brought about by the ongoing relationship it had with 
Firm C. This wouldve highlighted any patterns of unsuitable or unaligned advice, which 
could be identified and addressed.
In any event, although I acknowledge that Portafina doesnt agree, Im satisfied that it as was 
clearly set out in the regulators alerts in both 2013 and 2014, Portafina couldnt restrict its 
advice merely to the transfer; it had to consider the proposed investments for Mr C, which it 
didnt do. 
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr C. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this. Had it done so, and Firm C had given it a clear framework of the 
proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have advised Mr C that it couldnt 
recommend he transfer away from his S32 in those circumstances. If Portafina had warned 
Mr C against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, I think he wouldve listened to it and not 
gone ahead with the transfer. 
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr C when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended as a solution to Mr Cs 
needs was being made on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings, it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Cs SIPP was invested. 
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mr Cs funds were invested. Portafinas recommendation that Mr C transfer 
to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were it not for the transfer and 
Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding this, Im not persuaded Mr C 
wouldve ultimately gone on to invest as he did.
The advice to transfer 
I have also considered whether the advice to transfer was suitable. In other words, if the 
investment advice had been suitable, would the advice to transfer have also been suitable? I 
dont think it would have been, and I will explain why.
The S32 was funded from a transfer of a defined benefit occupational pension scheme 
(OPS) and retained a significant part of the defined benefit guarantee in the form of the 
GMP. Giving up this guarantee and subjecting future pension income to the risks associated 
with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be shown that it was 
clearly in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS guidance (COBS19.1.6G) at the 
time of the advice, stated:
 When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, 
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests.
This guidance also applies to the S32 because of the defined benefit guarantee it retained 
from the OPS.
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests. And generally, a transfer will only be in the consumers best interests if theres a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account the individuals particular circumstances.
It is clear to me from Mr Cs background and circumstances that he satisfied the FCA 
definition of a Retail Client i.e. he was neither a professional client or an eligible 
counterparty. So, he was entitled to rights and protections afforded to Retail Clients and I 
think he was reliant on the advice given to him.
An essential requirement when assessing the suitability of a DB transfer was the use of a 
Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) to produce a Critical Yield. The regulator has 
updated its guidance about this over the years but guidance of particular relevance when 
Portafina advised Mr C was COBS 19.1.7AG from November 2007, which expected a 
business to explain the loss of the guarantees and the transfer of risk from the DB scheme to 
the client, and the extent to which benefits may fall short of replicating the DB pension.
The SR explained the Critical Yield in the following terms; A Critical Yield of 3.1% applies to 
this plan. If you go ahead with this transfer you will be giving up access to a pension of 
£5,384 per annum upon reaching 65.. It later went on to explain that this Critical Yield was 
the investment growth required each year to at least match the income Mr C could have 
received from his S32 if he used income drawdown in his SIPP. But this was the extent of its 
explanation of the Critical Yield, which I dont think went far enough, as it simply did not 
explain what it was in practical terms or provide any context to how it related to the loss of 
guarantees. 
It is also evident from the SR that the critical yield quoted was based on Mr C using income 
drawdown, which is typically lower than a critical yield based on purchasing an annuity. But I 
dont think this assumption was valid because Mr C was not intending to retire for a further 
six years. And not only was there no expectation of him taking drawdown income for six 
years, this was also too far away to know with any confidence that drawdown would still be a 
suitable option.
The SR said the transfer was recommended due to the possibility that benefits available at 
retirement via the SIPP would exceed benefits available under the S32. However, Portafina 
had Mr C sign a declaration stating that he understood it was unlikely the recommended 
scheme would achieve the growth rate required to match the guaranteed benefits under his 
S32, let alone exceed them. The declaration also had Mr C agreeing to accept that by 
transferring hed be worse off in retirement. Its not clear what the point of the disclaimer 
was, but either away, it doesnt suggest Portafina was acting in Mr Cs best interests when 
recommending the transfer.
Given the above, it is clear to me that Mr C was not in an informed position because I dont 
think the drawdown Critical Yield was valid, the SR lacked sufficient detail and the 
information provided in the SR and Disclaimer was inconsistent.Mr C disputes that his attitude to risk was adventurous and argues that it was at most 
medium. I have reviewed his answers from the RPQ that was completed by Firm C, which in 
summary point to a lack of investment experience and knowledge, and an aversion to risk. 
Portafina should have completed their own RPQ but didnt, they simply commented about 
Mr Cs observations regarding the questions asked by Firm C. His S32 was invested in 
unitized with profits but this seems to have been a policy condition as part of Aegons 
obligation to honor the guarantee of the GMP. The remainder was invested in a mix fund, 
which seems to have been a diversified managed fund. Portafina failed to accurately 
establish Mr Cs attitude to risk, and I have seen nothing from his background and 
circumstances or from the answers to the Firm C RPQ or from the nature of the existing S32 
investments that would suggest he had an adventurous attitude to risk. I think a medium 
attitude to risk was an appropriate assessment for Mr C.
Portafina also needed to consider Mr Cs capacity for loss. He was already receiving some 
pension income; his employment situation was stable and he had surplus income; but he 
also had a large outstanding mortgage. He was approaching 60 with only six years until he 
intended to retire, so his time horizon for making up losses if things went wrong or accruing 
additional pension provision was limited. So, I dont think he had the capacity for a level of 
risk higher than medium.
To give suitable advice Portafina should have established his income needs in retirement 
and how these could be met, including making up any shortfall. But instead they merely 
concentrated on advising on how the transfer would meet his immediate perceived 
objectives. His desired income in retirement was recorded as being £12K per year and 
although he was already receiving pension income of £3.5K per year, there remained a 
sizeable shortfall. He may have had a State Pension which could have been sufficient to 
meet this shortfall but Portafina didnt check this. 
Because Portafina didnt fully assess what Mr Cs income needs in retirement were likely to 
be it couldnt reach a reasonable conclusion about whether transferring to the SIPP would 
meet his long-term retirement needs. Even if I accept that Mr Cs retirement income need 
was in fact £12K per year, the guaranteed income from his S32 of £4,158 per year from age 
65 would have gone a long way to meeting this income shortfall when combined with his 
existing pension income of £3.5K per year. By transferring, he lost this guaranteed income. 
I have thought about how the transfer recommendation addressed Mr Cs stated objectives.
Transferring to access a greater level of TFC wasnt an objective Portafina appeared to 
interrogate or explore in any great detail with Mr C.  Merely meeting this objective in the 
short-term didnt make the transfer suitable. Portafinas role wasnt to simply justify and 
make a transfer happen based on his objectives, unless it could be clearly demonstrated to 
be in his best interests. I cant see that Portafina did this.
Although Mr C was able to access more TFC following the transfer, and he used this to 
make home improvements and purchase a new car, theres nothing to suggest these things 
were essential at the time, such that taking on the risks associated with the transfer were 
necessary. Even if they were essential, and the evidence does not prove this to be the case, 
he had £25,000 in savings which could, in the short-term, have arguably been more 
appropriately used for this purpose instead. But again, Portafina failed to explore this 
alternative in any depth, beyond simply stating that Mr C did not wish to pursue this option. 
Portafina should have established why this was not a preferred option; it should have set out 
the advantages and disadvantages of each of the options that could be used to meet Mr Cs 
objectives but it didnt. Mr Cs other stated objectives were control and flexibility and greater investment fund 
choice. But beyond simply stating these objectives in the SR, Portafina again failed to 
substantiate why either of these objectives were important to Mr C, and I can draw no 
inference from his background and circumstances that suggest to me why these objectives 
were of such importance to justify the risks of transfer.
I also dont think Portafina adequately considered the suitability of drawdown for Mr C. 
Saying it was suitable because he could take full TFC and reinvest the residual amount 
wasnt enough. As I have already stated, six years was too long to be confident that this 
would be Mr Cs preferred and suitable option when he retired.
Mr Cs partner was 19 years younger than he, which meant that the 50% spouses pension 
was of potentially significant value because this benefit was not conditional on the age of his 
spouse. I accept that the spouses pension was conditional on them being married or in a 
Civil Partnership, which they werent. But the point was that this benefit and the conditions 
attaching to it should have been considered; the advantages and disadvantages should have 
been set out so that Mr C was in an informed position and could take action if necessary.
In terms of costs associated with its recommendation, Portafina only partly set out what 
these were. It included only the adviser and SIPP charges in its SR and the fund charges in 
the illustration it provided were specific to the funds selected i.e. cash, which would have no 
charge. By not taking into account the impact of the costs of the intended investment 
strategy, Portafina failed to take appropriate steps to ensure the complete suitability of its 
recommendation. 
Although Portafina said the strategy it was recommending might cost more than Mr Cs 
existing arrangement, it needed to justify any potential costs as a result of the transfer in light 
of Mr Cs needs, and present this in a way Mr C was likely to understand. The cost of the 
transfer along with SIPP and investment charges would all play a role in determining what 
Mr Cs investment returns would ultimately be. So, weighing up all the costs associated with 
its recommendation was a crucial part of Portafinas consideration of the suitability of its 
advice. Any additional costs needed to be acceptable in terms of the specific benefit Mr C 
needed. I cant see that Portafina made any meaningful attempt to do this.
Overall I dont believe the recommendation to transfer was suitable to Mr Cs circumstances, 
or that Portafina collected or presented sufficient information to demonstrate it could properly 
advise him on the suitability of its recommendation to ensure it was in his best interests.
Would Mr C have gone ahead with the transfer in any event?
Ive thought about whether, if hed been correctly advised by Portafina not to transfer, Mr C
would have gone ahead with the transfer anyway. Having carefully considered all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe he would have. I think if Mr C had been given 
correct advice he wouldnt have transferred and wouldve stayed in his S32 and not taken 
benefits until his intended retirement. I can see no compelling reason why he really needed 
to take his TFC at age 60 or that potentially increasing his overall TFC entitlement 
outweighed the loss of guarantees by transferring.
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended for Mr C. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mr C that it couldnt recommend he transfer in those circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mr C against investing in line with Firm Cs proposal, I think its more 
likely than not that Mr C wouldve listened to it and not gone ahead with the transfer. 
Alternatively, had Mr C proceeded against such advice, Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility to him appropriately. For example, it couldve treated him as an 
insistent client. However, theres nothing to indicate Mr C was acting against the advice hed 
been given.
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mr C when assessing the suitability of the proposed transfer meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course of action it recommended as a solution to Mr Cs 
needs was being made on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings, it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mr Cs SIPP was invested.
I think it was clear from the outset that Mr C was seeking to rely on the advice he reasonably 
expected to obtain from Portafina. And I think Portafinas failings in appropriately assessing 
the overall suitability of the transaction it was recommending played a pivotal role in Mr Cs 
decision to transfer.  
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mr C are as a result of the inappropriate 
advice provided by Portafina. And had it not been for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe 
he would have gone ahead with the transfer of his S32 or the subsequent UCIS investments.  
Is Portafina wholly responsible for Mr Cs losses?
Ive considered whether I should apportion only part of the responsibility for compensating 
the loss to Portafina. In the circumstances, though, I think apportioning responsibility to 
Portafina for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont accept that anything 
Firm C did was an intervening act which absolves Portafina of its responsibility for Mr Cs 
losses. 
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were in a business relationship 
in which each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring about a single 
outcome for clients  pension switch advice and investment.  Portafina advised Mr C to 
transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits to be 
switched over. 
I acknowledge that Firm C advised Mr C to invest a significant share of his SIPP funds in 
unsuitable funds. But I think it is fair to hold Portafina fully responsible for Mr Cs loss. 
Ultimately Portafina recommended Mr C should transfer his S32 benefits to the SIPP, 
without ensuring the subsequent investments he would go on to make, through Firm C were 
suitable for him. So, in my view, the entirety of Mr Cs loss stems from Portafinas unsuitable 
advice to transfer away from his S32 where he had a GMP. Portafinas understanding that it 
could reasonably limit its advice to just the switch and the SIPP was wrong; it needed to 
consider the proposed investments too, even if Firm C was advising Mr C on the 
investments. It was only as a result of Portafinas involvement that Mr C transferred his S32 
plan to the SIPP. Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully 
reliant on the funds being switched over first; if that hadnt happened, he couldnt have 
invested as he did.
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction, and it considers 
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses. In Mr Cs case, hes confirmed 
that he hasnt complained about Firm C or Firm S and in light of their liquidation, there would be little point in him doing so.  He has complained about Portafina and because of what I 
have said, it is, in my view, fair and reasonable that Portafina should account to him for the 
full extent of his losses.  
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting point as to 
causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible for the losses Mr C 
suffered in switching his S32 to the SIPP and investing as he did. That isnt, to my mind, 
wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair and 
reasonable position. So, overall, I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the whole 
of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
My conclusion is that a fair outcome would be for Portafina to put Mr C, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the S32. Portafina should therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with 
the regulators pension review guidance, as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its 
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB 
pension transfers. 
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions at the 
date of the actual calculation. Portafina must contact the Department for Work and Pensions 
(DWP) to obtain Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If this demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should if possible be paid into Mr Cs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
In addition, Portafina should pay Mr C £200 for the trouble and upset this has caused him.
Treatment of the illiquid assets held within the SIPP
My aim is to return Mr C to the position he would have been in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily 
sold on the open market), as its value cant be determined. That appears to be the case 
here.To calculate the compensation, Portafina should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should include anything Portafina has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mr C to provide an undertaking to account to it for the 
net amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should 
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina asks Mr C to provide an undertaking, 
payment of the compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
Future SIPP fees
If Portafina had given suitable advice Mr C wouldnt have the SIPP. The SIPP only exists 
because of the investments. In order for the SIPP to be closed (should Mr C wish to move 
his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Portafina taking 
over the investments, or this is something that Mr C can discuss with his SIPP provider 
directly. But I dont know how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If any 
investment cant be removed, to provide certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portafina 
pay Mr C an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using 
the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange 
for the SIPP to be closed.
 My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portafina 
Financial Services LLP should pay the amount calculated as set out above. Portafina 
Financial Services LLP should provide details of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple 
format.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021. 
Lorna Goulding
Ombudsman