DRN-2596049
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain that Pearl Group Management Services Limited is charging too 
much interest on their lifetime equity release mortgages.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the following conclusions:
There are two parts to Mrs and Mr Rs mortgage; the original advance from 2004 and a 
further advance taken in 2011. Both are on lifetime fixed rates; 7.19% and 6.99% 
respectively. Theres no suggestion that Pearl is charging higher rates than the contracts 
allow. 
Mrs and Mrs R say it should simply charge less because rates generally have fallen 
since these loans started. But thats not how the contract works. Mrs and Mr R agreed to 
the terms of the mortgages when they took them out, and both agreements specified that 
the rate would be fixed for the duration of the mortgage. After all, if rates generally had 
risen since Mrs and Mr R borrowed the money, there wouldnt be a fair argument for 
Pearl increasing the rates it charges, and theyd be pretty upset if it tried to do that.
Mrs and Mr R are free to move them to another lender charging a lower rate if they 
wished to, without incurring an early repayment charge.
For these reasons, although I understand Mrs and Mr Rs frustration, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this 
services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman
