DRN-2397404
Complaint
Mr S has complained Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) have unfairly priced the 
cost of his pet insurance policy. 
Background
Mr S took out a lifetime pet insurance policy in 2013 to cover his dog. The policy is 
underwritten by RSA.
Mr S made a complaint after seeing his 2020 renewal price, as he had seen cheaper
quotes for the same policy online. He doesnt think its right that there is such a large 
difference in price between what he is paying and a quote for a new policy. He is also 
unhappy with the information provided by RSA through the course of his complaint.
RSA say Mr S premium is correct for the risk presented to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge for
the insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what their
insurance should cost or how they calculate the risk they are insuring. I would be, in effect, 
determining or telling a business how they should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant 
say the cost of Mr S policy was too high, he should have been charged less for the policy or 
that he should be charged a lower premium in the future.
Generally, the more risk the insurer is taking in providing cover, the more the policy will cost.
Thats why the cost of this type of policy goes up each year as the pet gets older  theres
more risk of an older pet needing treatment than a younger pet. But there are also reasons 
why a new policy is likely to be cheaper than a policy that was taken out some time ago, and 
renewed each year since then.
A new policy wont provide cover for any pre-existing medical conditions and there will 
usually be an exclusion period, which limits the risk RSA are taking - so a new policy will 
generally work out cheaper. 
RSA will also take into account the possibility a pet may have visited the vet since the policy 
started, without a claim being made. Any subsequent claim for anything related to this
wouldnt be covered by a new policy but it would be by an existing policy. So, the difference
in premium will reflect this additional risk to them too.
Over time a business will review and alter their pricing models and the way their new policies 
are underwritten to remain viable and competitive in the market  which they are entitled to 
do. I can understand why Mr S feels that the policy price should be the same for the same 
breed of dog, of the same age, living at the same address. But while that might be right for a 
policy taken out on the exact same day, a direct comparison cannot be drawn between a 
policy taken out in 2013 and a new policy quoted for. 
I know RSA have told Mr S that a discount would have been applied to new policy, also 
making it less expensive than continuing his cover. And they have said he would have 
benefitted from a discount when he took out his policy. Due to the time thats passed they 
havent been able to evidence any discount he received. But I dont think that means he 
didnt receive a discount. In fact, its likely that he did as its very common for insurers to offer 
these kinds of introductory offers. And in any event, even if he did not  Mr S chose to take 
out the policy at the time for the price quoted to him. Its a business discretionary decision to 
offer discounts, so I dont think RSA would have done anything wrong even if they had not 
been applying discounts to new policies when Mr S took his out. 
From what Ive seen there is nothing to suggest Mr S has been treated differently to any 
other customer in the same position, who took out their policy at the same time as him. So I 
cant say RSA have singled him or treated him unfairly. 
Ive also considered Mr S comments about an FCA press release. I understand why Mr S 
feels its relevant to his complaint as it concerns renewal prices for existing customers being 
higher than quotes for new business with the equivalent risk. But insuring the health of a pet 
is quite different to home and motor insurance which the report deals with. As covered off 
earlier in this decision, the risk for a business providing pet insurance for a new customer is 
lower than continuing the cover for an existing policyholder  so there are legitimate, risk-
related reasons for the premium increasing when a lifetime pet insurance policy is renewed. 
I know Mr S is unhappy that RSA did not provide him with clear information about why his 
premium was more expensive than a new policy - and from what hes said, I agree, RSA 
could have given him clearer information about why the cost of his policy had increased and 
was different to that of a new policy. But I hope that this decision makes it clearer for him. 
Having considered all the above, I dont think RSA unfairly priced his pet insurance policy 
and so I wont be asking them to do anything. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman