DRN-3952699
The complaint
Mr T complains that an appointed representative of St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJPWM) failed to provide him with appropriate advice about the use of 
some pension savings in 2021.
What happened
The matters that form this complaint arise from a relationship between Mr T and his 
financial advisor. That financial advisor is an appointed representative of SJPWM, so it is 
SJPWM that is responsible for the advice, and dealing with this complaint. In this decision, 
for ease, I will generally simply refer to the advisor as SJPWM.
Mr T holds pension savings with St James Place (SJP). He also holds other pension 
savings with another firm that I will call A. In the past Mr T had received advice in relation to 
the pension savings he holds with A from another advisor, who was no longer connected to 
SJPWM. In 2020 Mr T had started discussions with SJPWM about the transfer of his 
pension savings from A into his retirement account with SJP. But those discussions hadnt 
resulted in any transfer taking place.
In January 2021 Mr T asked for an urgent Zoom meeting with SJPWM. On that call he 
explained that his wife was facing some difficulties at work, and so he needed to take some 
income from his pension savings to allow her to retire, and to fund the purchase of a new 
car. SJPWM discussed the options open to Mr T at that time. It suggested that he would be 
able to take a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  otherwise known as tax free 
cash) of £7,500 from the remaining uncrystallised funds in his SJP retirement account. And it 
suggested that Mr T could take a bank loan for any additional income he required. Mr T 
confirmed that he was unwilling to take on any debt, and that the PCLS would be insufficient 
to cover his required income.
SJPWM says that it reminded Mr T that it would be unable to provide him with advice, or 
servicing activities, on the pension savings that he held with A. It suggested that he should 
speak with his previous financial advisor, or contact A directly, should he want to make use 
of those pension savings. And I can see that, around a week later, Mr T sent an email to A 
with his income request.
A explained to Mr T that the income he could take was limited to around £17,000 due to his 
pension plan being in a capped drawdown arrangement. But it told him that he could convert 
his pension plan to a flexi-access drawdown arrangement that would allow him to take a 
greater income payment. It warned him however that doing so would trigger the Money 
Purchase Annual Allowance (MPAA) and restrict the amount he could add to his pension 
savings in the future.
Mr T proceeded with his withdrawal. But, in November 2021, he complained to SJPWM that 
the advice he had received had been unsuitable. In summary he said that he should have 
been advised to split his pension withdrawal over two tax years. Or he said that SJPWM 
should have advised him to make three transfers to A from his retirement account that would 
have allowed him to take the monies using the small pots exemptions and so avoid 
triggering the MPAA. And he said that, if SJPWM felt it was unable to advise him on his 
pension savings that were held with A, that restriction should have been made clear, and he 
should have been directed to seek advice from elsewhere.
SJPWM didnt agree with Mr Ts complaint. But it paid him £150 as a gesture of goodwill for 
the time it had taken to deal with the complaint. Unhappy with that response, Mr T referred 
his complaint to us.
Mr Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He didnt think it would 
have been appropriate for SJPWM to have provided the advice that Mr T says it should 
have. And he thought it would have been clear to Mr T that formal advice hadnt been 
provided by the firm. So he didnt think that Mr Ts complaint should be upheld.
Mr T didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr T and by SJPWM. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The appointed representative of SJPWM that was acting as Mr Ts advisor was only 
authorised to advise on SJPs wealth management products and services. And it seems that 
restriction was what led Mr T to enter into discussions with his advisor, in 2020, about 
transferring the pension savings he held with A over to SJP.
In order to facilitate the advice that Mr T was given in 2020 he provided A with his authority 
for information about his pension savings with the firm to be disclosed to SJPWM. But 
having looked at the authority Mr T provided at the time I cannot share his conclusion that it 
suggests SJPWM was involved, on an ongoing basis, in the management of those pension 
savings held with A, or in providing him with any advice about their ongoing use.
In 2020 Mr T was provided with a lengthy document setting out the advice that SJPWM was 
providing to him. That is very much the norm in relationships such as these. So, if SJPWM 
had also provided advice to Mr T in 2021 about the use of the pension savings he held 
with A I would have expected a similar report to be produced. It wasnt, and the limited 
discussions that took place were held over Zoom calls and at very short notice. I am not 
persuaded that any formal advice was given to Mr T by SJPWM about the use of the 
pension savings he held with A to meet his income need at that time.So since I have concluded that Mr T wasnt given any advice by SJPWM in 2021, I dont 
think it reasonable to conclude it is responsible for the taxation consequences that followed. 
It does seem that A set out for Mr T the matters he would need to consider, such as the 
income tax he would need to pay, and that the MPAA would be triggered. I accept that Mr T 
might not have fully understood the implications of that information. But I dont think that is 
something that was the responsibility of SJPWM.
I have seen that Mr T had previously used a different financial advisor. And that advisor was 
still registered with A as providing support to Mr T. I accept that, as part of the withdrawal 
process, Mr T told A that he had terminated that advice relationship and that he intended to 
use SJPWM in the future. I doubt that approach had been discussed with SJPWM  as Ive 
set out above SJPWM could not advise Mr T on products that it didnt offer itself. And I have 
seen that more recently the former advisor has been providing some assistance to Mr T in 
matters relating to this complaint. But ultimately Mr T told A that he was making the 
withdrawal on a non-advised basis. That suggests he understood that he was responsible for 
ensuring the suitability of the decisions that he made.
Mr T has said that SJPWM should have advised him that he could make three transfers of 
£10,000 to A so that he could make his pension withdrawals using the small pots rules and 
so avoid triggering the MPAA. SJPWM has told us that it couldnt be sure that would be a 
reasonable application of the relevant regulations, and Id tend to agree. That would have 
been a matter that needed further discussions with a specialist tax advisor. But in any case, 
to give advice of that nature, SJPWM would have needed to recommend that Mr T transfer 
his pension savings away from SJP to A. That again would have been impossible given the 
restrictions placed on Mr Ts advisor to only deal with SJP products and services since the 
advisor would have needed to discuss the suitability of the pension product offered by A.
I think that SJPWM, both in 2021 and in previous discussions, had made Mr T aware that it 
couldnt provide him with advice on, or servicing of, the pension savings that he held outside 
SJP. It seems to me that the conversations Mr T had with his advisor, in the lead up to the 
withdrawal, did not form the basis of a formal advice process. And I think that would have 
been clear to Mr T. He undoubtedly felt he had a pressing need for the additional income 
that was generated from the withdrawal. But ultimately it was Mr Ts decision alone about 
how that withdrawal should be instructed, and the taxation consequences that followed. So 
I dont think SJPWM has done anything wrong, or that the complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman