DRN-2691742
The complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made mistakes with an international payment. 
He says he sent $930 to an account abroad but, although hed paid the associated fees, only 
$920 was received by the beneficiary. 
What happened
Mr F said that he paid the fees to ensure that the $930, approximately £735 would be 
received in full by the recipient. This didnt happen and the recipient received $920 USD, 
approximately £727. Mr F also said the reference hed asked for wasnt quoted. 
When Mr F initially raised the matter he was given some wrong information by the call 
handler. For this poor customer service, Barclays upheld his complaint. But Barclays said 
the additional $10 fee was applied by an intermediary bank - something over which it had no 
control. Barclays also said it was the intermediary bank that amended the reference. In 
acknowledgment of the inconvenience caused by the incorrect information, Barclays offered 
£40 compensation. And an additional £20 as a gesture of goodwill to cover the shortfall in 
the transfer. 
Mr F wasnt happy with Barclays response, so brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
reviewed matters but didnt think Barclays needed to do anything more, as both the charge 
and the reference were applied by the intermediary bank. The investigator also thought the 
compensation offered by Barclays was fair. 
Mr F didnt agree and said Barclays hadnt provided him with the terms and conditions 
explaining charges could be applied by the intermediary bank. Mr F also thought the 
investigator hadnt fully dealt with his concerns about the change to the transfer reference. 
The investigator referred Mr F to the account terms and conditions, available online. And as 
the reference had been changed by the intermediary bank, she didnt think Barclays couldnt 
be held responsible for that. Mr F remained unhappy, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr F thought hed sorted things out so the beneficiary would receive all 
the money he sent. With the transfer Mr F made, both his and the beneficiarys bank used 
intermediary banks to route the money to the right place. From the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied the change to the reference and additional $10 fee were applied by the 
beneficiarys intermediary bank. And I accept this isnt something over which Barclays has 
any control. 
I know Mr Fs unhappy he wasnt specifically warned about these possibilities in advance. 
With hindsight, it wouldve been better if Mr F had known about or had all the information up 
front, some of which was available to him in his account terms and conditions. But my role is 
to look at whether Mr F has been treated fairly in his dealings with Barclays over this issue. 
Barclays accepts C was given wrong information when he first raised his concerns. And 
whilst I acknowledge there will have been some inconvenience because of this, overall I 
dont think Mr Fs been treated unfairly. Barclays has offered a total of £60 to settle the 
matter. I think thats reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
To settle the complaint Barclays has already made an offer to pay £40 compensation for 
misinformation and £20 in relation to the shortfall in funds. I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So my decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay £60 to Mr F.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2021.
 
Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman