DRN-3500302
The complaint
Mr S1 and Mr S2 complain that Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited (SPML) returned a 
payment which was made to their mortgage by a third party in 2016. They also complain 
about the amounts SPML asked them to pay when they were in arrears on the mortgage.
What happened
Mr S1 and Mr S2 took out this mortgage in around 2006. They borrowed just over £200,000, 
on an interest-only basis, over a term of ten years. The term came to an end several years 
ago but the mortgage is still outstanding.
In 2021, Mr S1 and Mr S2 complained about what had happened in 2016, when they said a 
friend of a relative had tried to repay the mortgage for them in full. They said SPML had 
effectively prevented the payment from being made. They also complained about SPMLs 
treatment of them when the mortgage was in arrears, and the amounts it had asked them to 
pay. 
SPML said it had explained at the time what documents it would need in order to accept a 
payment from the third party, but it had never received either the documents or the payment. 
It said it had set up payment arrangements for Mr S1 and Mr S2 on the mortgage in 2016, 
after considering their circumstances and how much they could afford. It said it had done 
nothing wrong. 
Mr S1 and Mr S2 asked the Financial Ombudsman to consider this complaint. SPML initially 
said they had left it too late to complain, but also that it didnt think there were grounds to 
uphold the complaint. 
Our Investigator found that Mr S1 and Mr S2 had complained in 2021, within six years of the 
events they were complaining about in 2016  so they had complained within the relevant 
time limits, and he could consider the complaint. 
However, the Investigator didnt think SPML had done anything wrong. He found it hadnt 
been unreasonable in asking for relevant documents before accepting a large payment, and 
he didnt think any payment had been received but returned. He said he wouldnt have 
expected SPML to share records of any direct contact it had had with the third party with Mr 
S1 and Mr S2. He also concluded that SPML had considered Mr S1s and Mr S2s 
circumstances when coming to payment arrangements to clear the mortgage arrears, it had 
discussed the situation with them, and it had treated them fairly. 
Mr S1 asked for the matter to be reviewed. He said that much of what the Investigator had 
said was wrong, and his complaint hadnt been properly investigated. He had transcripts of 
conversations involving the third party which confirm her offer to repay the mortgage. But 
SPML hadnt told the third party what it needed from her, and as a result the payment was 
made but returned by SPML.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I share the Investigators view that this complaint isnt time-barred. Mr S1 and Mr 
S2 raised their complaint about the issues at hand here in 2021, within six years of events in 
2016, so I can consider it. 
I think its also important to be clear about what Im considering in this final decision. Mr S1 
has referred to an earlier complaint about the sale of the mortgage, but that is not what this 
complaint is about. This complaint is about the two points set out above  that is, the third-
party payment and other payment arrangements  so that is what Ive looked at. 
I should also say that its for the Financial Ombudsman Service to decide how to investigate 
the complaints it is asked to consider. We are impartial and we dont act for either party. So, 
while Ive noted Mr S1s unhappiness with our investigation and the outcome the Investigator 
came to, that doesnt mean we should put this complaint on hold or re-investigate. 
Im satisfied I have enough information to come to a fair and reasonable decision in this 
case. While Mr S1 hasnt provided the transcripts he says he has and which he feels are 
relevant, he has had considerable time, and the Investigator has given clear deadlines, to 
provide anything more he wanted me to consider. Im also satisfied that I can reach my 
decision fairly without discussing the complaint with either party. 
Ill deal with each part of this complaint in turn.
The payment from the third party
In late 2016, there were discussions between Mr S1 and SPML about a payment which Mr 
S1 was expecting from a friend of a relative to repay the mortgage in full. Theres no dispute 
about that. 
SPML has provided its contact notes from 2016. Mr S1 says he cant remember the detail of 
what was discussed, but those notes are inaccurate. Ive looked carefully at what both 
parties have said and provided and, having done so, I can find no record of SPML having 
received a payment to redeem the mortgage. Neither party has provided any evidence of 
such a payment. 
It follows that I cant fairly conclude SPML received a payment and then  rightly or wrongly 
 sent it back. 
SPMLs contact notes are in my view quite detailed and say, amongst other things, that Mr 
S1 told it the third party had had her bank accounts frozen, had no proof of identity, had told 
various lies and had several different aliases, and a solicitor had interfered and put her off 
paying. They also say that SPML told Mr S1 on a number of occasions that it required proof 
of the payers identity and of the source of the payment in order to accept the proposed 
payment. 
As the Investigator noted, there is also a note of SPML having contacted the third party 
directly to ask for this information, with Mr S1s agreement. Mr S1 wants a recording of this 
call. SPML has said it cant provide this without the third partys consent. It hasnt provided 
this to the Financial Ombudsman Service.I dont need to hear that call in order to make my decision, and I think it likely SPMLs 
contact notes as summarised very briefly above are broadly a fair reflection of discussions. I 
take that view having weighed up what Mr S1 and Mr S2 have told us as well, which includes 
that the third party got fed up of being asked for information and pulled out of the 
arrangement to pay off their mortgage for them. 
I also consider it was entirely reasonable of SPML to want to satisfy itself about the identity 
of the payer and the source of the payment. I think the information it asked for was 
appropriate in the circumstances. I also think it not unreasonable for SPML to decide not to 
release to Mr S1 a call which it had with a third party, without explicit agreement from the 
third party. It may, of course, no longer have a recording in any event given the time that has 
since passed. 
Overall, I cant fairly find that SPML is to blame for the payment in question not having been 
credited to the mortgage. 
Payment arrangements
SPMLs records show it has been in regular contact with Mr S1 in particular over the years, 
and it has discussed his and Mr S2s circumstances to try to find a way for them to maintain 
their mortgage payments. In light of the mortgage arrears, I dont think it treated Mr S1 and 
Mr S2 unfairly in terms of the amounts it asked them to pay. 
I recognise that Mr S1 and Mr S2 are in a very difficult position with the mortgage still 
outstanding and SPML expecting repayment. I would encourage Mr S1 and Mr S2 to keep 
SPML informed of their proposals and I would expect SPML to treat them fairly in any further 
efforts to come to an arrangement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman