DRN-4385912
The complaint
Mr W complains that Profile Financial Solutions Limited (PFS) failed to provide him with the 
agreed level of service for the annual fees he was paying. And wants the return of the 
annual fee that it was paid.
What happened
In October 2014 Mr Ws existing pensions were reviewed by PFS. It advised him to switch 
three existing pensions into a new pension policy. It agreed his attitude to investment risk 
with him and recommended an investment strategy for his new pension.
Mr W paid PFS a one off fee for that advice. And agreed to an ongoing adviser charge of 
0.3% of his overall pension fund. PFS explained that would be around £140 a year based on 
the initial transferring fund size. 
PFSs client agreement says that its ongoing service should have included:
Monthly monitoring of funds for quality and suitability
Yearly calls to assess any changes in circumstances or attitude to risk
Yearly updates and information regarding holdings
Ongoing support with correspondence and administration
PFS explained that it carried out an annual review call with Mr W in January 2016. It says it 
called Mr W in December 2016 to review his circumstances but didnt get to speak with him.
Around November 2017 Mr W cancelled his ongoing service agreement with PFS. PFS 
contacted him that month to discuss the service it offered him and in March 2018 Mr W 
agreed to re-instate PFS as his advisers providing him with ongoing advice.
In May 2019 PFS have shown details of its prepared review and that it called Mr W on 
21 May 2018 to book an appointment with him. This appears to have been missed and there 
is evidence of further attempts resulting in PFS contacting Mr W on the phone on 28 May 
2018 to review his circumstances.
In May 2019 PFS say it called Mr W and wasnt able to speak to him. So it didnt provide him 
with any review. And that in 2020 it attempted to contact Mr W in January but again was 
unable to speak with him. It made no further attempt to contact Mr W during 2020 or 2021.
PFS say that it contacted Mr W in March 2022 and completed a review of his pension. And 
recommended a further pension switch to a self-invested pension plan (SIPP) that it 
explained had cheaper fees.
In August 2022 Mr W complained to PFS via a representative. The representative explained 
that Mr W didnt consider that PFS had delivered the agreed service and that it should return 
the fees it had received from Mr Ws pension. PFS didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. It thought 
that the unsuccessful calls it made were sufficient to satisfy the service it had promised.
Our investigator was unable to resolve the complaint so it was referred for an ombudsmans 
decision. I looked into the circumstances and issued a provisional decision explaining why I 
thought Mr Ws complaint should be upheld and suggested what PFS should do to put things 
right.
In my provisional decision I said
In Mr Ws original complaint his representative suggested that it was unfair to charge an 
ongoing fee as a percentage of the fund because it would increase if the funds value grew. 
So Ill start by saying that Ive found no issue with the way in which PFS has explained its 
original charging structure to Mr W. The costs were set out in a clear and unambiguous way. 
It is acceptable industry practice to charge a fee as a percentage. But businesses should 
also give indicative values of those charges. And the charges must have been made clear 
prior to any agreement. Which they were. Ive seen that they were clearly set out in the 
documentation Mr W was sent in 2014. 
Ill now consider whether PFS actually delivered the service that it charged for. The facts in 
this case are not actually in much dispute. Quite simply, PFS failed to contact Mr W in a 
number of the years that he was paying it an annual fee. Namely 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, 
and 2021. PFS claim that it made calls to Mr W during four of those years and wasnt able to 
speak to Mr W. And it says that Mr W didnt have an email address. 
Ive considered what PFS indicated to Mr W in its original recommendation to switch 
pensions in 2014. Here it referred to reviewing his financial arrangement, saying:
We discussed the importance of regularly reviewing your financial arrangements 
including rebalancing your portfolio of investment funds. I recommend that your funds 
are rebalanced annually as part of their automatic process. The details of this are 
described in the Key features document. Your attitude to risk should also be 
assessed on a regular basis as this could change Our on-going commitment to you 
is detailed in our Client Agreement.
Weve asked for the Client Agreement. PFS have shown us a copy of a client agreement 
that it implies is relevant to this case. It isnt signed or dated unfortunately. If this was the 
agreement that PFS had with Mr W, as it claims, then it was contracted to provide the 
ongoing service that I set out earlier under what happened. It offers no further detail about 
what the specific features of that service offering would include. I can see that Mr W 
cancelled the ongoing advice in 2017 as he didnt think he was getting, in his words, 
anything for his money. And PFS made several phone calls to him and persuaded him to 
take up the ongoing service again. It sent him a new Adviser Charge Instruction form in 
March 2018 by post but doesnt indicate that there was any new or alternative Client 
Agreement.
So Ive thought about the following things that PFS agreed to do and what it was fair and 
reasonable for Mr W to expect.
Monthly monitoring of funds for quality and suitability
Weve asked PFS what this meant. It says that it has an Investment Committee that monitors 
investment strategy and the individual funds selected. And it says that its committee meets 
quarterly to discuss these matters. 
I think this is fairly vague. It is a service that appears to have no meaningful output or any 
quantifiable means for a consumer to understand whether it has or hasnt been done. 
Quarterly committee meetings dont provide evidence of monthly monitoring. Although I understand that PFS are saying it was continuous. In practice though, the only way that a 
consumer would know that this was being done would be if they were to be updated of the 
results of this monitoring periodically.
I understand that this service offering doesnt specifically tell Mr W that hell be updated of 
the results of this monitoring. But I think it would be reasonable to expect that it would form 
part of the periodic review that was also part of Mr Ws agreed service.
Yearly calls to assess any changes in circumstances or attitude to risk
This part of the service offering would appear to imply that once a year PFS will refresh its 
fact-find with Mr W. Which seems reasonable as it will influence any assessment it makes 
about the suitability of Mr Ws investments. The suitability report PFS gave Mr W in 2014 
promised yearly rebalancing of funds. So the information that it obtained through this would 
be important in providing the tailored service offering it promised.
I think it would have been fairer to Mr W if the delivery of this service offering had been made 
clearer. A year is a long time, and some expectation of when in the year this would be due 
would have made it easier to schedule and plan for. But it appears that, because Mr W didnt 
use email, PFS didnt schedule appointments consistently with him. 
I need to decide whether trying to phone him or write to him once in a year satisfies this 
element of the service offering. I note that this statement is worded in such a way to imply 
that PFS will make yearly calls. Not simply offer them. I also note that where these calls 
havent happened the attempts have happened at seemingly random times of the year. And I 
dont think that the attempts to contact Mr W were very persistent. Or that the importance of 
the calls was emphasised at any point.
Ive considered how difficult it might have been for PFS to actually get to speak to Mr W. And 
of relevance for me in considering this is the contact that PFS had with Mr W following his 
cancelling the ongoing service in November 2017. He was contacted by PFS and spoken to 
on the phone in November 2017; December 2017; January 2018; February 2018 and finally 
on 7 March 2018 when he eventually agreed to reinstate the ongoing advice charge. This is 
five times in five months that PFS were successfully able to contact and speak with Mr W on 
the phone.
I also note that in May 2018, shortly after reinstatement, PFS showed a degree of 
persistence over a number of days that month in order to get to speak with Mr W in order to 
successfully review his circumstances. 
Overall, the evidence doesnt persuade me that it was impossible for PFS to have provided 
Mr W this service as it had agreed to do. And I would note that the responsibility was on PFS 
to make genuine and reasonable efforts to perform this service. And I dont think that it 
consistently did this. And during 2021 it cant evidence it made any effort to reach out to 
Mr W at all. And offers little in the way of reasoning for that. I understand that Mr W didnt 
have email. And it may have meant that PFS couldnt use its preferred approach in dealing 
with Mr W. But it had his address. It was able to write to him, as it did when it sent him the 
Adviser Charge Instruction form in 2018. And should have done that in order to fulfil its duty 
here as well.
Yearly updates and information regarding holdings
This service offering doesnt promise Mr W phone calls. So could, presumably be fulfilled by 
a written update. I think it would be reasonable to assume that this would be the means by 
which PFS would inform Mr W of the result of its monitoring of his funds and its review of his personal circumstances.
PFS havent provided any evidence that it provided any update to Mr W about his holdings in 
any year other than 2022 when it recommended a further pension switch. Which it did in 
writing.
I am aware that Mr W received annual statements from his pension provider. So he would 
have been aware of the value of his pension and that it continued to be invested in the same 
way. But those statements offered no commentary on the performance or ongoing suitability 
of the holdings. And they were statements that were provided as part of the service offering 
of Mr Ws pension provider. In the case of the provider that he was transferred to in 2014, 
that provider levied a charge of 0.23% of fund value.
This means that the statements that PFS have sent us, as evidence that Mr W was aware of 
his pension value, are not evidence that PFS did anything to satisfy this element of its 
service offering. These are statements that were prepared and provided by a third party. And 
I dont think its fair or reasonable for PFS to charge an additional element of its annual fee 
for something that Mr W has already paid that third party for.
Ongoing support with correspondence and administration
This element of the service offering was conditional on any specific ad hoc requirement 
Mr W might have had. Mr W hasnt suggested that he required or asked for any specific 
ongoing support. But Ive no reason to suppose that PFS wasnt available to him in the event 
that he did.
Summary
Ive considered the specific rules and guidance from the time. Which means that PFS were 
required to clearly set out the services that it would provide Mr W for the ongoing fee it was 
receiving. And it needed to have robust systems and controls in place to make sure that 
Mr W received the ongoing service that it committed to.
I think PFS could have been clearer to Mr W about what it was offering. So Ive taken a fair 
and reasonable approach in determining what that service offering ought to have provided. 
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think that PFS provided Mr W with the service 
that he paid for. He didnt receive annual calls or suitable yearly updates in any years other 
than 2018 and 2022. I come to that conclusion based on the specific circumstances of this 
case and the evidence thats been presented. 
It follows that I dont think its fair or reasonable for PFS to have taken its adviser charge 
from Mr Ws pension scheme without delivering the service that it had promised him. This 
was an agreement between PFS and Mr W. Put simply, it would be reasonable for PFS to be 
paid the agreed amount for providing a service that had been agreed. But not where that 
service hasnt.
Responses to my provisional decision
PFS responded to disagree with my provisional decision. In summary PFS made the 
following points:
It responded with a timeline which was the same as the information that I had already 
considered.
It said that periodic suitability assessments and review calls are only part of its ongoing service and commitment to its customers. It said that it monitors funds for 
quality and suitability and the provision of pension statements. It is available for ad 
hoc enquiries. And said that the customer can choose to complete the review or not.
It referred to things our investigator said that differed from the answer Id given. 
Including that he didnt think it was our approach to ask a business to refund fees in 
these circumstances. 
It believes that the outcome I reached differed to other decisions it has received from 
our service about this type of issue. 
It requested that I review my outcome based on its new proposal to refund 40% of 
the charges taken during the period from 2017 until Mr W removed PFS as his 
adviser. And that it also pay 40% of the annual charges that it received in 2021 when 
it agrees that it failed to attempt to contact him for a review. It suggested paying 8% 
interest to those amounts. But argued that it shouldnt pay the £100 distress and 
inconvenience payment that I had proposed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would start by reassuring PFS that the timeline it sent in response corresponds with the 
facts that I had already considered and taken into consideration. It is not new evidence. I 
think I was clear in determining that PFS had told us it had called Mr W in some of those 
years that it failed to provide him with a review of Mr Ws pension.
I understand PFSs position is that its okay for it not to provide a key part of the service to 
Mr W if it tries to call him once a year and he doesnt take the call. But I dont agree that is 
fair or reasonable.
I made the point in my provisional decision that Mr W was, more likely than not, available to 
speak with PFS. And I came to that conclusion based on the evidence that PFS was 
successfully able to contact him every month for 5 months whilst it was trying to persuade 
him to re-instate the ongoing advice agreement that hed cancelled. During that period he 
wasnt actually PFSs client. Yet it went to great lengths to contact him repeatedly. I havent 
seen the same level of persistence from PFS in trying to get hold of Mr W to then deliver the 
service that it promised him. 
Ive considered the argument that PFS have put forward again regarding Mr Ws failure to 
give it an email address that it could use. But I dont think that is a reason that it couldnt 
write to him with an update, review, or invitation to have a telephone meeting. It had his 
address. I re-iterate again that it wrote to him in 2018 when it needed him to sign the 
Agreement to re-instate the ongoing adviser charge. 
Ive listened to a call that PFS made to Mr W in December 2017. The caller asked him why 
he had cancelled and whether he had gone to another advisor. He explained that he hadnt. 
But he had left because he didnt think he got anything for the money. Mr W said he hadnt 
had any contact. The caller from PFS expressed surprise saying, I have to apologise for 
that. Thats bang out of order. We normally do an annual review over the phone to bring you 
bang up to date with the situation. The caller didnt know why Mr W had been missed that 
year. And asked him if he had an email address which Mr W explained he didnt. The caller 
explained that PFS sends emails to customers to arrange convenient times to call. And told 
him that he was missed because he doesnt have an email address. The caller told Mr W that PFS could rectify the fact that he doesnt have an email address by calling him to 
provide his reviews.
This call is further evidence that has led me to decide that Mr Ws lack of an email address 
was not a suitable reason for PFS to fail to provide him with its agreed service. If it was 
actually the case that PFS couldnt reliably provide a service for a customer without an email 
address, then it should have made that clear. And not entered into a further agreement to 
take an ongoing charge for a service it didnt reasonably expect to be able to provide.
In my provisional decision I explained why I thought that the annual review was a key part of 
PFSs service offering. And, taken as a whole, there were far too many years where it simply 
didnt provide it. In 2021 PFS acknowledge it made no effort at all to contact Mr W. Yet seem 
to consider, up until my provisional decision, that was a fair and reasonable way for it to 
have treated Mr W. For the same reasons that I explained in my provisional decision, I 
disagree with PFSs view. I dont think it was fair or reasonable not to make any effort to 
contact Mr W in 2021. And I dont think it was fair or reasonable for it to have failed to 
conduct a review call in the years 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, 2021 even if it may have tried to 
make an unscheduled call to him once during each year. I understand that PFS couldnt 
make Mr W engage with them. But I would expect to see further efforts being made and then 
Mr W being contacted in writing about his review. And I dont think this happened.
PFS believe that my provisional decision differs from things that were said in our 
investigators view. And it is correct. When a case is referred for a final decision it is the role 
of the ombudsman to review all the evidence and make a decision based on what is fair and 
reasonable. In this case I have done that and have come to a different conclusion to our 
investigator. So what I have said will disagree in a number of ways. But I think I have clearly 
set out my reasons for coming to the conclusion that I have.
PFS have also referred to two decisions it has received on other cases. We assess each 
case on its own merits. Circumstances and evidence may differ. In this case I have based 
my decision on what I think a fair and reasonable outcome is based on the evidence of what 
has happened in this specific case. I am not bound by determinations given in other cases.
PFS have suggested that it should only be asked to refund 40% of the fees charged. And 
only 2017 and 2021. Ive explained above why Ive decided that it needs to compensate 
Mr W for all of those years in which it failed to provide him with any review calls. So I dont 
consider its offer to be fair in the way it still seeks to limit the years that it compensates for.
Ive considered PFSs suggestion that it only refund 40% of the fee it took though. It explains 
that it has previously offered this to settle complaints and it has been accepted. But it hasnt 
provided any evidence to explain why the provision of a review call once a year accounted 
for 40% of the work that it did on Mr Ws behalf each year. 
And I would reassure PFS that I did give this matter consideration prior to issuing my 
provisional decision. I considered in some detail the client agreement it said it had with Mr W 
in trying to work out what service Mr W was entitled to expect. And I addressed each 
element of its service offering in my provisional decision. Nothing has changed my mind on 
what I decided previously. 
To summarise my findings on the overall level of service according to each element of 
service agreed to:
PFS demonstrating that it held quarterly investment committee meetings is not 
adequate evidence that Mr Ws funds were monitored monthly. 
PFS didnt provide yearly calls to assess Mr Ws circumstances in 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, 2021 without reasonable excuse for not having done so.
PFS didnt provide Mr W with any yearly updates of his pension holdings. The only 
information that Mr W received was from his pension provider, who he was paying 
separately for the service it provided.
Mr W didnt require any ongoing support with correspondence or administration in 
any of the years where there was no yearly call. 
I considered all of this in order to gauge whether it was fair and reasonable to suggest that 
PFS refund all of the fees that it took from Mr Ws pension. Ive considered this issue again 
in light of PFSs suggestion. But I am not persuaded that the other things that it agreed to do 
for the fee amounted to 60% of the work required. PFS havent evidence that being the case. 
And for the reasons given in my provisional decision and summarised above, I do not think 
PFS have adequately discharged those elements of its service either. 
Taking everything as a whole, PFS hasnt evidenced that it provided Mr W with the service it 
agreed to in many years. So my final decision is that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld for 
the reasons given in my provisional decision and expanded upon here. In those years where 
PFS failed to provide Mr W with the service promised I think it is fair and reasonable that it 
refunds 100% of the fees that it took. And that, in doing so, it restores Mr Ws pension to the 
position it would have been in if those fees had not been taken. I set out below how it must 
do that.
Putting things right
My intention is to put Mr W, as close as possible, into the position hed have been but for 
PFSs mistake. In this case that means putting Mr Ws pension fund into the position it would 
have been in had the fees not been taken. The pension would have been higher by the value 
of those fees and any investment returns that those fees would have gone on to benefit 
from. 
PFS must calculate the loss in value of Mr Ws pension due to the deduction of the fees 
taken in 2016, 2017, 2019, 2020, and 2021. To be clear, this will mean calculating the lost 
investment returns on each fee, based on the actual investment strategy of Mr Ws pension, 
from the date the fees came out to the date that PFS are told that Mr W accepts my 
decision.
When PFS have calculated this total loss to Mr Ws pension (from the fees that should not 
have been paid, and the lost investment returns from those amounts) it should, if possible, 
pay that total loss amount into Mr Ws personal pension. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr W as a lump sum after making a notional reduction to allow for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
If Mr W has remaining tax-free cash entitlement, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% 
would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this.
PFS must also pay Mr W £100 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused. I 
understand that PFS disagrees with this. But I think that Mr W has been caused an amount 
of distress and inconvenience by PFS service failing. He previously raised his concern about 
a lack of ongoing service but was convinced, following a number of calls, that he would get a regular service. And then subsequently didnt causing him repeated inconvenience in having 
to raise this issue again. 
If payment of compensation is not made within 28 days of PFS receiving Mr W's acceptance 
of my final decision, interest must be added to the compensation at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If PFS deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell PFS how much has been taken off. PFS should give Mr W a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr W asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HMRC if appropriate.
My final decision
For the above reasons I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Profile Financial Solutions 
Limited to compensate Mr W in the manner set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman