DRN-1087787
The complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
In 2003, Mr W was sold a PPI policy on a secured loan he was taking out in a meeting with 
BoS. The policy was paid for by a monthly premium of £9.90. It protected Mr Ws loan 
repayments for up to sixty months if he wasnt able to work because of an accident or 
sickness and up to twelve months if he became unemployed. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr W didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding 
it for reasons that Ill explain.
Mr W says it wasnt made clear to him that the policy was optional. BoS doesnt have a 
record of what was said at the meeting when the PPI was sold. And Mr W doesnt appear to 
have a particularly good memory of this sale either. This isnt that surprising given how long 
ago the meeting took place. But this means I need to decide what I think is most likely to 
have happened then, based on the limited information available to me now.
BoS has provided a copy of the loan agreement which Mr W signed. I can see that theres a 
pre-printed cross in the Yes box next to the statement Do you want Personal Loan 
Repayments Insurance? The monthly cost of the loan and PPI are also shown separately 
on the agreement.  On balance, I think its most likely that the PPI policy was discussed with 
Mr W and that he actively decided to take it - knowing he had a choice - before the 
agreement was printed off and signed. If this discussion hadnt happened, I think Mr W 
would have queried why the box had been ticked by the BoS advisor without him first 
agreeing to take out the PPI policy.
 
 
 
 
This was an advised sale, which means that BoS had to ensure that the PPI policy was 
suitable for Mr W. I dont know what it did to ensure that this was the case. But from what I know of his circumstances at the time of the sale, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt 
have been suitable. I say this because:
Mr W appears to have been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr W says he didnt need the PPI because he had generous sick pay and could also 
have relied on his parents for support. But this policy would have lasted for longer 
than his sick pay and would have been more secure than relying on relatives if things 
went wrong. And he chose to take PPI, which makes me think he wanted this type of 
cover. So I still think he would have valued the extra protection that the policy gave 
him if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr W. And as the premiums 
were paid monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs.
 
BoS also needed to give Mr W enough information for him to decide if he wanted to take it. I 
think its possible that the information BoS gave him could have been better than it was. But 
for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable, I dont think better 
information would have changed his mind about taking it out. I think hed still have thought it 
gave him useful protection at an affordable cost.
So I dont think Mr W has lost out by anything that BoS may have done wrong when it sold 
this PPI policy to him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2019.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman