DRN-3972103
The complaint
Ms B, as a potential beneficiary of her late husbands pension plan and Executor of Mr Hs 
estate, says St. James's Place UK Plc (SJPUK) failed to carry out his expression of wishes 
in regard to death benefits from his policy on his passing.
SJPUK (and St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc) are represented by DAC 
Beachcroft LLP (DBL).
What happened
I am sorry for Ms Bs loss. I am mindful that while she and other parties close to Mr H seek 
resolution of this matter there is an ongoing emotional toll on them, as well as the significant 
financial consequence attached to the outcome.
Ms Bs complaint is effectively about the alleged acts and omissions of two entities  SJPUK 
and St Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc (SJPWM). In broad terms, the latter was 
responsible for the advice about and arrangements made in relation to Mr Hs flexible 
drawdown pension plan. The former was administrator of his policy and responsible for 
advising Trustees on the payment of funds from his pension to beneficiaries.
To keep things as simple as possible, Ive addressed the key issues arising against both 
firms in this single decision. This will be placed on each case file as they are linked with 
much of the information overlapping and interlinked. DBL has confirmed it has represented 
the interests of both SJPWM and SJPUK in its responses to this Service.
Before proceeding, I should also make clear this Service isnt a court of law. We dont have 
powers to call witnesses, place them under oath and / or cross examine them in order to get 
to the bottom of their testimony. And we cant join third parties to complaints. This is 
important to bear in mind given other parties, outside the respondents and complainant to 
this case, have been involved. If Ms B doesnt accept my decision she or Mr Hs estate may 
still be able to take the complaint to court. But thats not something I can advise her about.
Turning to some of the background and facts of the case.
SJPWM conducted a confidential financial review with Mr H in the autumn of 2015. The 
purpose of the meeting between SJPWM and Mr H was to discuss his retirement benefits. 
Mr H was 65 at the time, married with a financially dependent son from a previous marriage. 
He was employed through his own limited company and also had income from an 
occupational pension scheme and the basic state pension.
Mr H also held a personal pension with Aviva valued at around £79,000 and a plan with 
Friends Life worth about £164,000. In relation to death benefits, SJPWM noted Mr H:
wants to keep death benefits of drawdown over any annuity so wife or son could access 
funds after his death.
It was also recorded that Mr Hs wife wasnt dependent on the pension benefits but he 
wanted his family to be able to access any funds. Ms B notes, this was a situation that 
changed entirely over the subsequent period.
On 5 October 2015, SJPWM recommended Mr H switch his two personal pensions into a 
Flexi-Access Drawdown plan it provided. The intention was for him to withdraw maximum 
tax-free cash (TFC) with the residual funds being invested according to his assessed attitude 
to risk.
In relation to death benefits, SJPWM stated:
You want to retain some death benefits for wife and son. You want to know that any 
remaining funds upon death could pass to your family and know that they have the flexibility 
to use the funds in the best way to meet their needs upon your death. Your family would not 
be relying on your pension funds but you would want them to have the option to benefit from 
any remaining funds upon your death.
SJPWM recommended:
I have recommended the Asset Preservation Trust because it allows the pension funds to 
be passed on to your chosen beneficiaries in a tax efficient manner upon your death, before 
having to obtain Grant of Probate. It also ensures that any death benefit does not form part 
of your beneficiaries estate, which may become liable to Inheritance Tax upon their death.
A Trust Deed for an Asset Preservation Trust (APT)  Pension Death Benefits was 
completed with Mr Hs son named as the default beneficiary of the Trust allocated 100% of 
the benefits  no other beneficiaries were detailed. A long-standing friend of Mr H (Ill refer to 
him as Mr Z) was appointed as Trustee.
SJPWM had recorded that Mr H didnt have a Will, but the respondents legal representative 
has since located a copy of such made in 2014. This provided for Mr Hs beneficial share 
and interest in their matrimonial home to pass to Ms B. The remainder of his estate was to 
pass to his son, who was at that time said to be financially dependent on his father. The 
executor of the estate was Mr Hs solicitor.
Sadly, Mr H became seriously ill in 2016. He could no longer work and as a result wasnt 
able to generate further earnings/dividends, which had been previously recorded as 
amounting to around £70,000 per year. He had a critical illness policy but this only provided 
for around £2,000 a month. Ms B gave up her studies and any work to support her husband.
A new Will was established in 2016, this appointed Mr Hs wife as Executor for his Estate 
and main beneficiary.
Ms B said by 2017 she and her husband were forced to sell their matrimonial home and rent 
closer to London so she could access work while looking after Mr Hs material and medical 
needs. By March 2018 after surviving his initial treatment, and recovering to some extent, Mr 
H was informed his illness had worsened, and he was given an estimated two years as a 
maximum to live. She says subsequent decisions were informed by this knowledge.
Ms B says a series of discussions with friends and advisers ensued. Due to the expenses 
incurred, outstanding credit card debt due to their situation, and her having to give up work 
to care for Mr H, as well as the necessity to rent property, her husband was aware of the 
situation shed be left in.On 18 June 2018, Mr H completed further documentation in relation to the death benefits 
from his pension. These are at the heart of the dispute about how the funds should be 
distributed.
Mr H completed an Expression of Wishes (EOW) form, which was related to his draw-down 
pension. It noted the discretion of SJPUK in distribution of pension death benefits. It 
recorded Mr Hs request for it to consult with SJPWM prior to making any payment. And his 
wish for benefits to be paid into an APT. He went on to identify Ms B as the first and only 
beneficiary. The proportion of benefits was to be 100% to his wife, as either an income or 
lump sum.
Mr H also completed a Letter of Wishes (LOW) addressed to the Trustees of his APT. It 
stated he had created the Trust to receive the death benefits from his pension scheme. It 
again made provision for consultation with SJPWM and giving due consideration to acting 
upon their advice. And it noted his wish that the Trustees of the APT should regard the 
financial needs of his wife as paramount and for it to consult her on various matters including 
on the amount and nature of provision to be made for other beneficiaries.
Sadly Mr H passed-away in July 2019.
SJPUK considered where Mr Hs pension benefits of approximately £127,000, ought to be 
allocated. At a meeting of its Pension Death Benefit Review Committee held on 29 May 
2020, it considered the information available to it at the time.
SJPUK concluded Mr H had intended for his pension benefits to be paid to the APT. It 
recommended to the Trustees of his pension plan this is where the funds should be 
allocated. And thats what happened.
In preparing the ground for potential legal action, Ms Bs then legal representative sent 
documentation to SJPWM on 28 October 2020, setting out concerns about what had 
happened. DBL responded on 23 December, concluding in the following terms:
Your clients complaint is not being upheld.
Having reviewed your clients concerns, and considered the contemporaneous documents 
available, SJP has concluded that it is not responsible for the decision taken by SJP UK 
when exercising its discretion in paying monies to the APT. In any event, SJP has also 
concluded that there was nothing improper in SJP UKs exercise of its discretion. That 
decision was taken after due consideration of the circumstances and the evidence as to Mr 
Hs intentions.
Any complaint in respect of the advice given by SJP in relation to the APT is also rejected. 
SJPs advice was given based on the information provided by Mr H and your clients 
complaint appears to be founded on a misunderstanding of Mr Hs instructions.
SJP is not responsible for how funds were distributed, or are distributed in the future, from 
the APT. That is a matter that your client would have to raise with the trustees of the APT 
directly if she has concerns in that regard.
Ms B brought her complaint to this Service. She said:
St James' Place Wealth Management (SJP) has overturned my late husband's Expression 
of Wishes Letter of 2018, in which I am named as sole beneficiary of his retirement fund. 
They have not provided any written evidence of meetings either with my husband or 
amongst themselves justifying this decision. Neither SJP nor the Trustee have contacted me 
(their solicitor responding only to my solicitor) at any point. They sourced an alternative 
beneficiary not named on the Expression of Wishes form and have already paid a substantial amount out to him, despite this complaint being ongoing. The legal response to 
my enquiry/complaint and on which this decision appears to have been based is filled with 
subjective rhetoric and evidentially provable inaccuracies.
The Investigator upheld Ms Bs complaint. He thought that SJPWM shouldve provided Mr H 
with more effective advice about the implications of the operation of his APT and personal 
pension trust, and the associated paperwork for his death benefits in 2018. He concluded 
that had it done so it was more likely than not the APT wouldnt have been used and instead 
100% of the benefits wouldve flowed to Ms B as nominated on his EOW form.
In responding, SWPWM and SWPUKs legal representative rejected the Investigators 
findings and concluded in the following terms:
All considered, we do not agree with the crux of the Investigators conclusion that: It would 
appear reasonable to conclude that the issue was as to whether the funds would be paid to 
the asset preservation trust or to his wife directly. On balance, I think Mr H had wanted the 
benefits of the pension to be foremost for his wife.
All of Mr Hs actions (as explained in the Final Response and again in this letter) are 
consistent with him wanting to ensure that the funds would be paid to the APT and, 
specifically, not to his wife directly. In our view, the evidence clearly supports that Mr H 
wanted [his son] to inherit something, and he put in place a mechanism to do that via the 
APT. There is no evidence available to support the Investigators conclusion that Mr H 
intended to disinherit [his son]. We cannot see any indication that the Investigator has 
considered that position and why, on balance, he considers that is more likely what Mr H 
intended.
In any event, even if we are wrong on all of the above and Mr Hs intentions were to favour 
his wife, then the person best placed to put into action Mr Hs intentions is the Trustee of the 
APT... If, as the Investigator considers to be the case, Mr H wanted [the Trustee] to pass the 
pension assets to Ms B, then there is nothing preventing [him] from doing so now.
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Ms Bs complaint has been 
passed to me to review afresh. I issued my provisional findings and conclusions in 
December 2022 and earlier this month. Im grateful to both parties for their further detailed 
submissions, which Ive carefully considered in arriving at this final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint. I appreciate she would prefer my decision to be in line 
with the Investigators view, but its not the purpose of this Services two-stage process to 
endorse what opinion has been provided previously. Whenever one or both parties cant 
agree to an Investigators recommendations, matters are referred to an ombudsman to review all the evidence again with a fresh eye. And based on the information available to me, 
Ive come to a different conclusion. Ill now go on to explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by SJPWM (and SJPUK) for Ms B. The FCA Handbook contains eleven 
Principles for businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to 
(PRIN 1.1.2 G in the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 3, which requires a firm to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk management systems.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms like SJPWM (and 
SJPUK). As such, I need to have regard to them in deciding Ms Bs complaint.
DBL said it was important context that:
Mr H had significant professional experience in probate and estate administration services 
through his employment with Kings Court Trust Ltd and Title Research. Even if he was not 
advised (which he was), the Ombudsman should assume that Mr H was fully aware of the 
consequences of his actions.
On this point Ms B said:
This representation of Mr Hs professional experience is at best, misleading. Mr Hs career 
was as a General Manager of a series of professional firms, with one significant position 
(over 10 years) as the General Manager of the UK arm of a global postal technology 
manufacturer. On leaving that position, he undertook short term contracts (less than 2 years 
and on occasions 3 and 6 months at a time) as interim general manager, for a series of 
unrelated and diverse businesses. His role in each case was managerial and Board-level 
administrative.
I understand why DBL makes the point it has. The arrangements Mr H had in place were 
involved, a pension which was already held in Trust, effectively being diverted to another 
Trust, the APT, on his passing. And in addition to this various nuances applying to 
beneficiary rights. Its saying he understood these matters fully.
Im mindful of testimony Ive seen on file from SJPWM which said:
[Mr Hs] career working for both Title Research and Kings Court Trust required him to have 
a high degree of technical understanding of the probate and administration process, and he 
would have been broadly familiar with pensions, trusts and post-death administration as part 
of his role. [SJPWM] had this confirmed by the Chairman of Kings Court Trust.
DBL hasnt done enough to evidence Mr Hs specific knowledge and experience was 
relevant to the situation which had been constructed for his own personal pension 
arrangements. Nor how recent his experience was. Mr H was paying for advice from 
SJPWM and the onus was on it to make sure he understood the situation he was in.While I think a case has been made with corroboration that hed have had a broad 
appreciation of his arrangements, Ive placed limited weight on this. He was after all paying 
for expert advice and was a retail customer.
Turning to the central matter of this case. The documents completed by Mr H in June 2018 
and the implications for payment of his pension death benefits.
Mr H completed an EOW form, which was related to his SJP draw-down pension. It stated:
I [Mr H] would like you [SJPUK] to consider payment of death benefits from my 
St.Jamess Place pension(s) in accordance with the instructions below.
I would like you to consult with my St. Jamess Place Partner [SJPWM] prior to making any 
payment and give due consideration to acting on their advice.
The EOW form went on to ask Mr H if he wanted a lump sum on death to be paid to the 
trustees of an APT. He confirmed that was what he wanted. And he was asked to provide a 
copy of the APT and an Expression of Wish Letter.
The form then invited Mr H - if hed responded that he didnt want a lump sum paid into an 
APT  to say if he wanted a lump sum paid into a separate non SJPUK trust. In theory he 
didnt need to complete this. But he went on to indicate he didnt want this to happen and in 
so doing also responded to questions related to this about beneficiaries. The form asked:
If you have answered No, please enter details below and continued overleaf of the 
person(s) you would wish to receive benefits on your death and indicate whether you would 
like St. Jamess Place to consider paying benefits as a lump sum or income or both.
Mr H identified Ms B as the first and only beneficiary. The proportion of benefits was to be 
100% to his wife, as either an income or lump sum.
On the same day, because hed opted to pass his death benefits into an APT, Mr H also 
completed the LOW addressed to the Trustees of that Trust. It stated:
I have created this Trust to receive the Death Benefits from my Pension Scheme. I have 
done so in full recognition of the fact [SJPUK] may not elect to place funds into the Trust. 
However, should they elect to do so, I should like my Trustees to consult with [SJPWM] and 
give due consideration to acting upon their advice.
When administering the Trust, I should like my Trustees:
-To regard the financial needs of my spouse/partner as paramount.
-To consult my spouse/partner as to the benefit that she/he requires from the Trust.
-In accordance with the above, to provide my spouse/partner with adequate financial 
resources by means of such advances or interest-free loans of Trust capital, or 
distributions of Trust income, as my Trustees shall consider appropriate.
-To consult my spouse/partner when deciding upon the amount and nature of 
provision to be made for the other beneficiaries.
In bold, just above Mr Hs signature dated 18 June 2018 the following instruction was made 
to the Trustees of the APT, it said:
This request cancels any I have previously made on this matter.
Mr H passed-away in July 2019.SJPUK considered where Mr Hs personal pension death benefits of approximately 
£127,000, ought to be directed. At a meeting of its Pension Death Benefit Review Committee 
held on 29 May 2020, it considered the information available to it at the time. It concluded Mr 
H had intended for his pension benefits to be paid to the APT. It recommended to the 
Trustees of his pension plan this is where the funds should be allocated. And thats what 
happened.
Ive thought about the respective roles and responsibilities of SJPWM and SJPUK in this 
case. Clearly, theres considerable interaction and dependency between both entities. 
SJPWMs financial advice for Mr Hs personal pension arrangements
Ill touch first on SJPWMs advice in 2015 for Mr H to establish an APT. When I issued my 
provisional findings and conclusions in December 2022, I asked SJPWM for more 
information about why an APT was a suitable arrangement for Mr H.
Specifically, I said my understanding of pension plans was that they are operated as a Trust 
in any event. This confers potential advantages, for example sitting outside of an Estate for 
death benefit purposes. I said that arguably, having two Trusts to contend with in the event 
of Mr Hs passing seemed over-engineered. But was keeping an open mind on this point, 
pending any arguments and evidence submitted.
DBL responded to my request in the following terms:
APTs have a number of potential advantages. They can, for example, offer additional tax 
planning opportunities if monies within the APT are loaned to beneficiaries. And they can 
provide asset protection as funds within an APT would not generally be considered part of a 
beneficiarys estate for divorce, bankruptcy or care claims. There is nothing out of the 
ordinary in SJPWMs recommendation to Mr H to implement the APT.
Perhaps the biggest advantage of an APT is the control it gives over who can benefit from 
the assets that would be within it. This is particularly relevant to people with young(er) 
children, or children from a first (or earlier) marriage. Mr Hs adviserhas confirmed that Mr 
Hs specific concerns when he sought advice were: 1) to make sure [his son] would have 
access to the pensions if he needed them; 2) to protect [his son] from undue financial 
pressure from third parties (for example, a future girlfriend); and 3) to make sure that his (Mr 
Hs) wife could not access the pension monies or control [his sons] access.
Mr H therefore put in place the APT because it gave him the ability to appoint trustees of his 
own choice who could mitigate these risks. That option is not available within the SJP 
pension where, although the SJP pension fund trustees will take into account the deceaseds 
wishes where those wishes are known, the trustees inevitably have no direct personal 
relationship with the settlor/member. In essence, the APT allowed Mr H to put in place 
someone he trusted to manage the assets and to control distributions to [his son]. It was, in 
Mr Hs own words, a firewall between the pension fund and any request for money.
The operation of the APT is straightforward and, generally, creates no practical issues in 
terms of distribution of assets by the trustees following the settlors death. If, at any point 
prior to his death, the APT had ceased to meet Mr Hs needs and objectives, he could have 
updated the Expression of Wishes to the SJP Trustees asking that the APT be 
bypassed[his adviser] says he discussed this with Mr H after Mr H had first been into 
hospital, but Mr H specifically asked that the APT be kept in place so that his intentions (i.e. 
the monies passing to [his son]) were met.
Im satisfied that the establishment of the APT wasnt an exceptional provision and that it did 
provide for certain advantages over a basic pension trust in some circumstances. This 
included the ability for Mr H to instal a Trustee of his choice.In responding to my provisional decision from December 2022 Ms B questioned the 
appropriateness of the Trustee (Mr Z), who Mr H had appointed to the APT. She listed 
several concerns. Amongst other reasons she thought because Mr Z was a close friend of 
Mr Hs son, got to know Mr H as a sort of mentor and that he had no knowledge or 
understanding of her relationship with Mr H, that he was biased in favour of Mr Hs son. She 
also questioned his judgement to date given that hed already released £47,000 from Mr Hs 
pension benefits to his son even though her dispute was yet to be resolved.
Ms B says that SJPWM shouldve ascertained Mr Zs suitability for the role and advised Mr H 
accordingly. 
While I understand the concerns Ms B has raised here, I have to consider that Mr H and Mr 
Z were close friends. It was her husbands judgement when establishing the APT that Mr Z 
was an appropriate person to fulfil the role of Trustee. He never gave instruction for the 
arrangement to be undone. Unless SJPWM had been aware of any obvious reason for Mr H 
not to appoint Mr Z or to maintain his role  and Ive not seen evidence of such  I cant 
agree it shouldve advised Mr H not to appoint Mr Z.
SJPWM played an important ongoing role in Mr Hs financial affairs after its advice in 2015. 
For example, it was Mr Hs financial adviser when he completed the EOW and LOW forms in 
June 2018. And it was also subsequently consulted by SJPUK in its consideration of the 
distribution of Mr Hs death benefits.
In respect of the EOW form that her husband completed, Ms B says
Having already provided for his son, in terms of property, almost all the university fees by 
this stage, and the Trust Fund, [Mr H] stated that he wished me to be the sole beneficiary 
and sole executor of the Will, and that the sum under consideration here (the only significant 
remaining asset) should pass to me, as evidenced by his signature at the bottom of the 
EOW document, under the statement which clearly states it supersedes any prior document. 
Mr H and I discussed all this at length, (and broadly, with others) and he was not aware of 
any confusion which might occur over this.
I have no reason to doubt what Ms B says. And it is a fact that Mr H did complete the EOW 
form. But this isnt a straight-forward matter for the reasons Ill set out.
Firstly, I also have to consider the testimony of SJPWM which says it made it clear to Mr H 
that there was a potential contradiction between the EOW and LOW forms and the APT 
deed. But he still wanted to proceed.
SJPWM said when Mr H completed the EOW and LOW forms he sought confirmation from it 
that:
- The Trustee of the APT would still be able to decide who should benefit.
- The Trustee would be entitled to consider both the LOW and any other instructions 
hed provided and that the Trustee would then take the course of action that they 
thought best.
- That his sonremained the default beneficiary under the APT Trust Deed.
SJPWM gave him assurances on these matters.
In providing testimony to the SJPUK Committee considering distribution of death benefits,
SJPWM said:Mr H knew that making [Ms B] a beneficiary via the EOW didnt mean she would 
automatically benefit, only that she would become a nominated beneficiary alongside [his 
son]. [Mr H] was very wilful in his decision to reaffirm the use of the APT, keep the trustees 
the same, and only add [Ms B] as a nominated beneficiary. [Mr H] was adamant that he 
didnt want [Ms B] to be a trustee.
Ms B says theres no evidence to support what SJPWM says here. She says there are no 
notes of meetings or telephone conversations on file. She says:
From mid-2016 to his death, Mr H was very unwell, and for considerable periods of time, 
completely housebound. From March 2018, other than a few conversations with advisers to 
which I was party, and the one meeting when the EOW document was signed, (when I drove 
Mr H to and from the offices of the Adviser) there is no evidence that any significant 
meetings or conversations between Mr H and any adviser took place.
From late 2018 until his death, Mr H was not able to drive or leave the house other than to 
see people locally. The suggestion that any adviser had a significant relationship with him, 
or had any ongoing understanding of his state of mind, intentions or feelings is simply 
unsupportable.
Ms Bs argument here isnt without merit. And I do tend to put more weight on evidence 
contemporaneous with the events complained about. SJPWMs inability to provide file notes 
in support of its position is a weakness.
However, unlike the Investigator, I dont disregard what SJPWM said. Thats because the 
advisers recollections are quite detailed and were provided in March 2020, less than two 
years after Mr H signed the EOW and LOW. And it had an ongoing financial advice 
relationship with him, which makes me think it wouldve had a reasonable appreciation of his 
situation and what he wanted. And I cant see why it would have an axe to grind, so to 
speak. So I do place some weight on SJPWMs testimony.
In what is a tricky case, the Investigator made further significant findings, including that:
- SJPWM shouldve advised Mr H to give clearer instructions, otherwise he couldnt 
have had confidence his wishes would be carried out.
- Because Ms B was the Executor of Mr Hs Estate it appeared inconsistent to use the 
APT to ring-fence his pension death benefits.
- And so, had Mr H received clearer instructions he wouldnt have utilised the APT. 
And on the basis of the EOW form, SJPUK wouldve received a correctly completed 
form and all the death benefits wouldve flowed to Ms B.
I dont think these findings are safe.
In terms of SJPWMs broad account of the conversation it says it had with Mr H about the 
forms he was completing in June 2018, I think its more likely than not it told him about the 
potential confusion arising from the arrangement. But when he was given assurances that 
his main objectives would be met, he continued. Importantly, given the opposing opinions in 
this case, what actually happened is consistent with this view.
Using the EOW form, Mr H chose to pay any death benefits into an APT. And in turn the 
Trustee of the APT would be able to distribute those assets in accordance with his wishes. It 
would be reasonable to assume the Trustee shouldve been best placed to understand and 
implement those wishes.Ive not seen any evidence that makes me think Mr H made a mistake in opting to have any 
death benefits placed in an APT. I say this because the same day he completed a LOW 
form, which is only required if assets are to be paid into the APT. And theres nothing on file 
which shows he intended to revoke the APT Deed he established years previously.
There are other findings the Investigator arrived at with which I disagree. For example, in 
respect of the LOW he thought this indicated that Mr Hs death benefits ought to be paid to 
his wife. But it seems to me he jumps a few steps here.
Firstly, the APT and LOW were required to have been submitted together by Mr H when he 
completed the EOW. My understanding is the former remained unchanged from 2015 and 
showed his son as the default beneficiary at 100%.
The LOW also instructed the APT Trustee to consult with SJPWM and give due 
consideration to acting on its advice.
Further the APT Trustee was instructed by Mr H to: regard the financial needs of his spouse 
as paramount; consult her as to the benefit she required from the Trust; accordingly, to 
provide her with adequate financial resources as the Trustee considered appropriate; and to 
consult her when deciding upon the amount and nature of provision to be made for the other 
beneficiaries.
Ms B has provided more context about how Mr Hs assets were distributed. She says:
The Estate which I inherited amounted to around £70k, most of which was used in 
surviving the period up to and surrounding Mr Hs death, and the necessary funeral and 
administrative costs thereof. As sole beneficiary, I also advanced £20k and several valuable 
items to Mr Hs son, to meet needs and informal obligations made by Mr H.
As is evidenced by the Deed of Probate, I inherited nothing else at all, before, or after Mr 
Hs death. This Fund was made over to me to address this. I had already lost my house, my 
income, and the prospects for my further academic study on which I had already spent over 
a year, and accrued accompanying costs. I have no further assets or any significant pension, 
believing that Mr H and I would continue to work for some years.
There was a Life Assurance payment, which was the result of a mutually beneficial policy 
originally taken out by Mr H and myself to meet the outstanding mortgage on the marital 
home. Payments continued on both sides after the house was sold. Without this payment I 
would have been left destitute, which is why Mr H made the decisions he did. The payment 
was not enough to ensure my long-term security, but was enough to secure a small property 
with a mortgage which means I will have to continue in full-time employment long beyond 
any potential retirement age. This is the only asset I have. My future is uncertain.
Mr Hs son has benefitted, and continues to benefit from the house he lives in and the Trust 
Fund. He also has well-paid employment. His small remaining mortgage was paid off by the 
APT Trustee some time ago in the absence of any consultation with me.
The Investigators view was that Ms B should receive all the death benefits from Mr Hs 
pension. He placed weight on the changing circumstances Mr H found himself in by 2016, 
for understandable reasons. For example as a result of his illness, he had to stop work, Ms B 
was looking after him and they sold their home and moved into rented accommodation. He 
found that his diminishing asset position was a compelling reason why Mr H wouldve 
wanted her to receive his pension death benefits.
Id observe that matters were more complex. Mr Hs instructions from 2018 in relation to his 
pension were confusing, or at least nuanced, but Ive concluded were knowingly made.The change in Mr Hs Will between 2014 to 2016 showed a shift from Mr Hs son to Ms B in 
terms of provision from his Estate. This presumably reflects the changing circumstances 
identified, as well as that Mr Hs son was approaching the end of university and had inherited 
a home from his mother, with only a small mortgage outstanding. The Trustees were 
required to consider these circumstances and many other matters.
I do agree with the Investigator when he found  arguably at odds with the effect of his 
ultimate conclusion  that a consistent thread in the documentation provided to this Service 
about Mr Hs affairs, was a stated intent to provide for both his wife and his son.
I also note that in her response to DBLs position on her complaint. Ms B said:
I do not claim all [my husbands] assets were to be left to me. [He] made it clear he wished 
[his sons] University fees were to be paid, and I had every intention of meeting the final 
years expenses, which is why I advanced him money (£20k) after [Mr Hs] death and before 
Probate was granted.
The instructions Mr H made may, or may not have, meant Ms B received all, a proportion or 
none of the death benefits from her husbands pension. But crucially, these arent matters for 
this Service to determine  subject that is to my findings and conclusions in respect of the 
responsibilities SJPUK had in that regard (as Ill explain below).
Rather, in principle, this was a matter to be decided by the APT Trustee. And in doing so he 
will no doubt consider Mr Hs wishes and instructions, and the wider evidence and 
arguments available to him. In doing so he will be mindful of the duties placed on him, 
including exercising fair and reasonable judgement.
In my provisional decision issued in December 2020, I asked SJPWM for evidence of when it 
had sent the APT Trustee a copy of the LOW from June 2018. In responding DBL said:
It is denied that SJPWM had any duty to provide the LOW to the APT Trustee. It is the 
Settlors [Mr Hs] responsibility to make the Trustee aware of his wishes. The LOW is one 
way  but not the only way  of doing so. Section 6 of the [APT] Guide explains that:
the Settlor may wish to give the APT Trustees discretion as to how he/she would like the 
Trustees to administer the trust fund following their death. This can be done with a Letter of 
Wishes.
There is no obligation to complete a Letter of Wishes. There is certainly no obligation on 
SJPWM or the SJP Partner to disclose it to the APT Trustee. SJPWM would not necessarily 
be in a position to know whether the Settlors intentions changed: the APT Trustee is best 
placed to make those decisions on direction from the Settlor.
the guide also includes an APT completion process flowchart. We would highlight the 
final two boxes of that flowchartAs the Ombudsman will note, this confirms that the Letter 
of Wishes is not obligatory but is to be completed if appropriate. Second, it is expressly 
stated that the Letter of Wishes should be held by the Trustees of the APT (with a copy 
to be held by the settlor as an option). It is not required that SJPWM retain a copy. The onus 
is clearly on the settlor to make their wishes known to the APT Trustee.
In the present case, [SJPWM] has confirmed that Mr H retained the original LOW. It was for 
[him]  not SJPWM  to ensure that a copy was passed to the APT Trustee if that is what Mr 
H wanted to do.
Notwithstanding the above, we would note that the APT Trustee did not need a copy of the 
Letter of Wishes to understand Mr Hs wishes and instructions in this case. Mr H had direct 
discussions with the APT Trustee and explained that he would tell him personally if anything 
ever arose that required a change in approach. Nothing ever changed from when the APT Deed was first executed: Mr Hs intention remained that the pension monies were to be for 
the benefit of [his son] The Letter of Wishes did nothing to alter that.
On balance, Ive concluded that it wouldve been Mr Hs primary responsibility to have 
informed the APT Trustee of his wishes regarding distribution of benefits from the trust he 
was establishing and for him to have kept Mr Z informed of his requirements. It was he who 
had the direct relationship with the Trustee, not SJPWM.
And in this regard DBL says:
SJPUK received a detailed statement from the APT Trustee that set out his 
understanding of Mr Hs wishes and the background to them. In his statement, the APT 
Trustee confirmed that he met with Mr H for lunch every month or two, and they would 
regularly talk on the phone. It is abundantly clear from the APT Trustees statement that he 
understood Mr Hs intentions and his instructions. Those instructions were not altered by the 
Letter of Wishes.
In responding to my provisional decision from earlier this month Ms B said:
I have always been confused by the matter of the Letter of Wishes, and why, given that 
[Mr H] voluntarily completed, it, and signed and dated it, and there are any number of 
verifiable reasons and corroborations, from professional and personal witnesses, at the time, 
and subsequent to his death, as to why he would have done it, I have never received any 
reason or explanation as to why it should be dismissed. I believe it constitutes the clearest 
indication as to his intentions for the Fund.
I understand the point Ms B is making. But I think this is a matter she needs to take up with 
the APT Trustees. 
SJPUKs management and administration of Mr Hs personal pension
I first note the significance of the terms that applied to Mr Hs pension, in particular those 
which provided for a significant degree of latitude for SJPUK in advising the Trustees, and 
them in turn deciding on matters such as the allocation of death benefits from his plan. This 
is reflected on both the EOW and LOW forms, for example on the former its stated:
[SJPUK], as administrator of the above registered pension scheme, will normally have 
discretion on how the benefit is to be distributed. [SJPUK] is not obliged to follow your 
wishes but will take them into account.
It was SJPUKs role to administer Mr Hs pension. And this included making 
recommendations to the Trustees about how his death benefits should be paid. At a meeting 
of its Pension Death Benefit Review Committee held on 29 May 2020, it considered the 
information available to it at the time.
SJPUK has provided a copy of the terms of reference of its Committee. This included the 
requirement that in carrying out their duties members were to have regard to the statutory 
directors duties, the guidelines set by the Pension Ombudsman and to the Regulators 
Principles of Business (some of which Ive already set out).
The Committees responsibilities were as follows:
- To exercise the discretion afforded to the trustee of the scheme in respect of 
payment of death benefits when there are multiple potential beneficiaries in 
accordance with the rules of the Scheme (as amended from time to time) and having 
considered all of the relevant facts available.- The primary responsibilities will be delivered with consideration given to the following 
secondary responsibilities:
- Determining eligibility of each potential beneficiary under the rules of the Scheme.
- Considering all the relevant facts relating to the nature of the relationship of each 
beneficiary with the member of the Scheme and their financial dependency on the 
member.
- Considering any other factor which may be relevant to payment of the death benefit 
and could have reasonably been known or found.
- Ensuring potential beneficiaries are kept informed as appropriate throughout the 
decision making process.
- Setting reasonable timescales to ensure a decision is reached, as soon as 
reasonably possible and in any event within the two year period (following the date of 
the members death) set by the rules of the Scheme.
- In the event it is not possible to reach a decision within the two year period, ensuring, 
under clause 9.16 of the deed of amendment dated 7 September 2017, payment is 
made to the personal representatives of the members estate upon receipt of a grant 
of representation.
- Ensuring notification of the decision (the Decision) is made and providing an 
explanation on how the Decision was reached when required.
- To respond to any investigation carried out by the Regulator upon receipt of a 
complaint from a potential beneficiary and to reconsider the Decision if the complaint 
is upheld by the Pension Ombudsman.
Ms B told this Service:
On the death of Mr H, I was never, and still have never been, contacted by anyone from 
SJP, other than a short private conversation from the Adviser to offer condolences, a day or 
so after the death occurred. I was not aware of any Pension Death Benefit Review 
Committee, that it existed, that it had met, or what its agenda or findings were.
My financial needs were never considered at all, other than a demand from the Trustee to 
see my household bills. Obviously, my financial needs extend far beyond this. I was never 
consulted about any benefit required. I have never been provided with any financial 
resources. There are no other beneficiaries to this Fund, according to Mr Hs Expression of 
Wishes, and the decisions we made together towards the end of his life.
Ms B also says:
The only contact I have had since then, and which I will refer to later, was a pair of badly 
worded, slightly aggressive emails from the person referred to as the APT Trustee, which 
appear to have been prompted by this Committee meeting, suggesting that I provide details 
of household expenditure as evidence of need. This was irrelevant, would have served no 
purpose, and was extremely humiliating. I also had no guarantee that any such information 
would have been used in any way responsibly or with any care...
SJPUKs Pension Death Benefit Review Committee undertook a review of Mr Hs case in 
May 2020. Ive been provided with a summary of its deliberations. It considered the available 
evidence, including evidence from two solicitor firms representing Ms Bs interests. Notes 
indicate the Committee was made aware of her circumstances and many of the points she 
has raised about her situation in bringing her complaint.The Committee also considered information from Mr Hs son, the Trustee of the APT and Mr 
Hs adviser from SJPWM.
In responding to my provisional decision from earlier this month Ms B said:
There is new evidence here. In the most recent provisional decision of the Ombudsman (6 
February 2023), I see that [Mr Hs] Expression of Wishes, dated June 18, 2018 as provided 
by SJPWM, had not found its way to the Pension Death Benefit Review Committee by 29 
May 2020  a period of almost two years. It is stated that the Committee only considered the 
information available to it at the time. This changes the perspective of everything which has 
gone before.
I dont agree with Ms Bs interpretation of my provisional decision. The Committees broad 
conclusions included that:
- Both his son and Ms B had been dependent on Mr H financially.
- Ms B had received funds from Mr Hs estate, while his son had received no benefit.
- Mr H executed the APT in 2015 with his son as sole beneficiary. Ms B was added in 
2018. Up until his death, Mr H didnt attempt to remove his son as a beneficiary, nor 
did he make attempts to void the APT. And he reaffirmed his wish to use the APT in 
his 2018 EOW. Mr Hs son and Ms B were therefore considered both to be default 
beneficiaries of the APT.
- The LOW from 2018, accompanying the EOW, asked for the APT Trustee to take 
into account the financial needs of the scheme members spouse.
- The EOW from 2018 directs SJPUK to consult SJPWM. The latter had confirmed Mr 
H wanted the money to go into the APT and was adamant that the existing 
nominated Trustee was to remain in that role.
- It was clear from the evidence available (i.e. execution of the APT, the EOW and the 
information provided by SJPWM) that Mr H intended the death benefit to be paid to 
the APT.
- It was also clear Mr H had chosen a Trustee to make the decisions about the funds 
held in the APT.
As can be seen, SJPUK did consider the instructions as provided by the EOW and LOW 
forms. It might be Ms Bs recent observation is a reference to what happened with Mr Hs 
LOW form and whether this found its way to the APT Trustees, which Ive dealt with 
previously in this decision.
SJPUK concluded that Mr H had intended for his pension benefits to be paid to the APT. It 
recommended to the Trustees of his pension plan this is where the funds should be 
allocated. And thats what happened.
Its not the role of this Service to discern Mr Hs motivations for the arrangements he put in 
place. Neither to review the decisions already arrived at by Trustees of a pension scheme. 
Determining the distribution of death benefits from a pension scheme is not always straight-
forward. It often involves highly sensitive and complicated family matters. Its the role of the 
Trustees to consider all the relevant evidence in coming to its decisions.
Of course, as a regulated firm, SJPUK must meet the obligations placed on it by the FCA. 
The Committee comprised appropriately senior and experienced members. It considered the 
evidence available. But in order to come to a broader view about whether there was anything obviously irrational, partial or incorrect in the conclusions it drew, in my provisional decision 
from December 2022 I required further information from SJPUK.
In particular, I noted that in responding to DBLs final response from December 2020, Ms B 
posed the following questions:
I am concerned by the claim from SJP that how funds are distributed (once in the APT) is 
"not a matter for SJP or SJP UK", even when SJP UK have acknowledged themselves as 
Scheme Trustees. Included in the Asset Trust Preservation Trust documentation supplied to 
[Mr H] by [SJPWM] on 23 November 2015 was an accompanying "Trusts Powers and 
Provisions" outline. In it, it states:
Definition 1.14 "the Trustee(s)" means the Original Trustee(s) and any other Trustee for the 
time of being of the Trusts of this Deed.
In 5.2 it states that " ..the number of Trustees cannot be reduced below two, one of whom 
must be an individual other than the Settlor or, following the Settlor's death, the surviving 
spouse or surviving Civil partner of the Settlor."
It seems to me that the duties of a Scheme trustee would include: Administering the trust in 
accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed; Acting in the best interests of beneficiaries and 
treating them fairly.
It also appears to me, with reference to point 5.2, not only should I have been informed of 
all the Trustee activity relating to this fund (including the £47k advance already paid out to 
[Mr Hs son] but this clause suggests that I should in fact BE a Trustee.
My own reading was that clause 1.14 of the Trusts Powers and Provisions schedule cant be 
taken in isolation. Clause 1.13 provides that Original Trustees refers to Mr H (as Settlor) 
and any other Trustees he appointed to the APT. It doesnt refer to SJPUK. Ive not received 
any further information which makes me reconsider my interpretation here.
I asked for SJPUKs response to Ms Bs residual points here. Clause 5.2 refers to the 
Appointers responsibilities with regard to Trustees. But Mr H didnt nominate an Appointer. 
This clause refers to a minimum number of two Trustees (as does clause 6.5). And it 
seemed to provide that in the event of the Settlors death, the surviving spouse should be a 
Trustee.
In response to my enquiries here DBL said:
it appears that the Ombudsmaninterpret[s] clause 5.2 of the Trust Deed as providing 
that, on the death of the Settlor (Mr H), the Settlors spouse (Ms B) would be appointed a 
Trustee. That interpretation is incorrect. Clause 5.2 in fact reads (emphasis added):
5.2 The Settlor during his lifetime and following his death the Appointor during his lifetime 
may by deed dismiss any Trustee provided that the number of Trustees cannot be reduced 
below two, one of whom must be an individual other than the Settlor or, following the 
Settlors death, the surviving spouse or surviving Civil Partner of the Settlor.
Clause 5.2 therefore provides that: the Trust ought to have two Trustees; that during the 
Settlors lifetime, one of those Trustees must be someone other than the Settlor; and 
following the Settlors death (and as is relevant here) one of those Trustees must be 
someone other than the Settlors spouse or civil partner. There is nothing within clause 5.2 
requiring that the Settlors spouse or civil partner be appointed a Trustee. Quite the 
opposite.
Im satisfied with this explanation.
DBL also set-out:Where an Appointor is not named, Section 36 of the Trustees Act 1925 provides that: (1) 
Where a trustee, either original or substituted, and whether appointed by a court or 
otherwise, is dead, or remains out of the United Kingdom for more than twelve months, or 
desires to be discharged from all or any of the trusts or powers reposed in or conferred on 
him, or refuses or is unfit to act therein, or is incapable of acting therein, or is an infant, then, 
subject to the restrictions imposed by this Act on the number of trustees,
(a) the person or persons nominated for the purpose of appointing new trustees by 
the instrument, if any, creating the trust; or
(b) if there is no such person, or no such person able and willing to act, then the
surviving or continuing trustees or trustee for the time being, or the personal
representatives of the last surviving or continuing trustee;
may, by writing, appoint one or more other persons (whether or not being the persons 
exercising the power) to be a trustee or trustees in the place of the trustee so deceased 
remaining out of the United Kingdom, desiring to be discharged, refusing, or being unfit or 
being incapable, or being an infant, as aforesaid.
In accordance with section 36(1)(b), where there is no Appointor under the APT, upon Mr 
Hs death the surviving Trustee (Mr Z) acquired the power to appoint a new trustee.
DBL says following Mr Hs death the surviving Trustee (Mr Z) executed a Deed of 
Appointment installing a new Trustee. It said that who should be appointed was a matter for 
the surviving Trustee to decide when exercising the powers conferred on him by the Trust 
Deed and/or by the relevant statutory provisions.
In responding to my recent provisional decision Ms B said:
It is accepted that the APT was properly established by SJPUK at its outset. I was already 
included in the class of beneficiaries at that point. What the Expression of Wishes did in 
2018, was to inform the Trustee of a priority list of beneficiaries and proportion. It is accepted 
that the nominated Trustee would not be expected to properly grasp the onerous legal and 
moral duties imposed on any individual so nominated. These would include:
-Requiring a Trustee to become familiar with what the Trust says.
-To comply, precisely, with the directions they have been entrusted to carry out.
-To balance competing interests and not permit one beneficiary to suffer in favour of 
another.
-Trustees are required to keep accurate records. (Not to overly rely upon subsequent 
recall of informal conversations without contemporaneous supporting notes).
-To distribute assets correctly
And while the Trustee may not be expected to fully comprehend the burdensome 
responsibilities, the Pension Death Benefit Review Committee of SJPUK, would have done 
so. It would have been for them to guide the Trustee in full consideration of [Mr Hs] written 
instruction. [He] was a retail client, not a professional one, and one already diagnosed as 
terminally ill  something that tends to focus attention. He had already altered his Will 
appointing me as executor and sole beneficiary the year before. He had time to think about 
this. The overwhelming evidence, (and not hearsay), is that [my husband] wanted me to 
recoup losses relating to his illness, and be made financially safe for the future.
I understand the concerns Ms B has raised here, but as Ive already mentioned it was her 
husbands judgement when establishing the APT that Mr Z was an appropriate person to 
fulfil the role of Trustee. Unless SJPUK had been aware of any obvious reason to have concern about the arrangement  and Ive not seen evidence of such  I cant agree its role 
was to direct Mr Z in what to do.
SJPUKs position is that it undertook proper due diligence in carrying out all its 
responsibilities in the circumstances of this case. In reviewing DBL and its clients responses 
here, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude it hadnt performed its role with proper care, skill 
and diligence.
In responding to my last provisional decision Ms B provided a list of seven people who in a 
professional and/or personal capacity had a connection/contact with her late husband and/or 
herself. She says these individuals support various aspects of the case she has made. Ive 
no doubt what she says is the case. But as Ive mentioned, this Service isnt a court of law. 
We dont have powers to call witnesses, place them under oath and / or cross examine them 
in order to get to the bottom of their testimony. And we cant join third parties to complaints.
I recognise Ms B will be very disappointed with my findings and conclusions. I know from 
what shes told this Service she will strongly disagree with the outcome. Im not oblivious to 
the situation she finds herself in. Neither am I unsympathetic to her plight. But based on the 
information available to me it wouldnt be reasonable for me to uphold her complaint.
Although Ms Bs journey with this Service has come to an end she will now be considering 
her next steps. In the first instance an approach to the Trustees of the APT to set out matters 
from her perspective in more detail is something she may want to consider.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined Im not upholding Ms Bs complaint. It follows I dont require 
either St Jamess Place UK Plc or St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman