DRN-3258108
Complaint
Mr K has complained about charges that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) applied 
to his overdraft. Hes said the charges were unfair as he was financial difficulty. 
Background
One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and thought that what NatWest has already 
agreed to do  refunding the interest, fees and charges added from January 2017  was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Mr K disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Ive separately explained why Im only able to look at the charges applied to Mr Ks account 
from May 2015 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking whether NatWest 
acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr K from May 2015.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what NatWest has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr K is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at NatWests charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr K if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Ks 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been 
aware Mr K was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were 
instances between May 2015 and January 2017 where NatWest didnt treat Mr K fairly and 
reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether NatWest continued charging Mr K even though it 
ought to have known he was in financial difficulty during this period or it ought to have 
realised this was the case. Ive looked through Mr Ks transactions during the period 
concerned. And I cant see that NatWest ought to have been aware that Mr K might have 
been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Mr K used his overdraft regularly during the period Ive looked at. And while Im not seeking 
to make retrospective value judgements over Mr K expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. Plus Mr K was seeing a credit balance relatively regularly 
during this period too.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr K wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty at this time. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted NatWest to potential financial difficulty. And I know 
that the fees and charges which Mr K is most unhappy about occurred during the period Im 
unable to look at.
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr K, I dont think 
that it was unreasonable for NatWest to have proceeded adding the charges that it hasnt 
refunded already. And I dont think NatWest charged Mr K, between May 2015 and January 
2017, in circumstances where it ought to have realised that it was unfair to do so. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do to put things 
right for Mr K is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his case. And I leave it up to 
Mr K to decide whether he wishes to accept NatWests offer.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do to put things right for Mr K is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of his case. So Im not requiring to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman