DRN-2276382
The complaint
 Mrs W has complained that when British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) undertook a repair 
under her HomeCare policy, it caused damage to her flooring.
What happened
The details of this complaint are known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account BGs response to our investigators initial view on Mrs Ws complaint, 
as did our investigator when issuing his second view. I agree with the conclusion that he 
reached and Ill explain why.  
BG isnt being asked to settle an insurance claim. Its being asked to compensate Mrs W for 
damage to her floor. BG doesnt dispute that its responsible for that damage, and that the 
floor had previously been in good condition. The damage cant be repaired and will therefore 
need to be replaced if Mrs W is to be returned to the position she was in before the damage 
occurred.
BG has argued that it shouldnt be required to pay the full replacement cost of Mrs Ws 
flooring (£1,228) because it was approximately 15 years old. Its offered her £680.
If Mrs Ws floor had been capable of being repaired, then I think it wouldve been reasonable 
for BG to pay for that repair. But as it cant be repaired, Mrs W either has to live with a 
damaged floor for which shes been offered compensation of £680, or to pay £548 on top of 
BGs compensation to replace it. 
Only BG paying the full cost of replacement will return Mrs W to her original position. I 
accept that she will then have a brand-new floor replacing one that was 15 years old, so 
there is some benefit to her. But the alternative is for her to suffer a detriment through 
something that BG did, which isnt fair. 
 
I dont consider that its reasonable for BG to suggest that Mrs W claims on her home 
insurance. This would cost her at the very least an excess, but also potentially higher 
premiums in the future.
I consider the fair and reasonable outcome is for Mrs W to be put back into the position she 
was in before the damage occurred, that is with a floor in good condition. BG should 
therefore return her to that position by paying the £1,228 shes been quoted for the 
replacement of her floor. 
I also consider that it should pay her the £50 it originally offered her for the inconvenience 
shes been caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. 
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W compensation for the damage to her 
floor of £1,228.00.    
I also require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mrs W compensation of £50 for the 
inconvenience shes suffered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman