DRN-3445650
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs T, and the late 
Mr T, payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly-premium PPI policy, which covered a mortgage 
that started in January 1991. Only the late Mr T was covered by the policy. Mrs T 
says that Nationwide must have created the PPI policy, and charged for it, without 
the consent of Mrs T and the late Mr T.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should not be upheld. Mrs T and the estate of 
Mr T said they didnt agree, and so the complaint was passed to me. 
I saw that, after the adjudicator gave an assessment of this complaint, other 
information had become available. So I decided it would be fair to set out my view 
of the case in the form of a provisional decision. This would give everyone the 
chance to make further comment and send in any other evidence they wanted me 
to consider. In my provisional decision I said:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
My current view is that the PPI was not mis-sold and that I should not uphold this 
complaint. I will explain why I think that.
Mrs T says she is sure that she and the late Mr T never requested PPI or agreed 
to it being added to their account. For me to uphold the complaint on this point, I 
would need to decide that its more likely than not that Nationwide added the PPI 
without permission.
In support of the complaint, Mrs T and her representatives have sent us a copy 
of a mortgage completion document from 1991 which has details of monthly 
payments to be made for the mortgage and a joint life insurance policy, but 
which has the PPI section left blank. They have also pointed out a mortgage 
offer document which said that PPI would be available for one person costing 
£3.87 per month and which says please advise if required  so at that point 
too, it strongly suggests that Mrs T and the late Mr T had declined PPI.
Nationwide, not surprisingly, has only computer records of the mortgage and 
PPI, and no surviving documents from the time. The documents I have seen 
are what Mrs T and her representatives have managed to find from her own 
files.
However, these documents dont prove that Mrs T and the late Mr T didnt, a 
short while later, decide to take PPI. As this all happened about 30 years ago, its 
fairly likely that there are important documents missing, and these might show 
events in a different light.
As a general principle of fairness, where someone has said another person (or 
organisation) has done something wrong, there needs to be reasonable evidence 
that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to make someone prove they 
didnt do something wrong, especially when it was such a long time ago. But I 
dont have that evidence.
It has also been argued that, if they had wanted PPI, Mrs T and the late Mr T 
would not have taken cover for just Mr T. This is because both of their incomes 
were needed to cover household outgoings.
I agree that makes sense, and I did wonder whether there might be a reason 
to say Nationwide had made an error, by not offering to set up the PPI to 
cover both Mrs T and Mr T. But, at the time, I see that Mrs T had more than 
one job  and it would usually be inappropriate to set up a PPI policy for 
someone with two jobs. This is because it would then be difficult for that 
person to claim under the policy, unless that person lost both jobs at the same 
time  if they still retained one of their jobs, they might still be regarded as 
employed and so ineligible to make a claim. This is a likely reason a policy 
would have been set up only to cover the late Mr T.
Also, there is evidence that Mrs T was aware of the PPI policy in the years that 
followed even if, not surprisingly, she doesnt now remember it. Ive seen 
screenshots of Nationwides computer records. These show that, in February 
1997, Nationwide sent Mrs T a PPI claim form. Another entry says that, in late 
March 1997, MPC [what Nationwide called PPI] claim form returned to borr[ower] 
as Mrs not covered with MPC.
And, in December 1998, there was a computer note saying the property would 
be transferring to Mrs Ts sole name. And, two weeks later, a note saying: Mrs 
rang re MPC will send let[er] to CNC [cancel] MPC with Mr sign[ature] on.
So I do think it likely that, all those years ago, Mrs T and the late Mr T were 
aware of the PPI; and I think its likely that they knew it was optional but 
decided to take it.
On the assumption that Mrs T and the late Mr T did agree to the PPI, Ive 
checked to see whether there are other reasons to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
But I dont think there are:
I dont think it likely Nationwide recommended the PPI, in the sense of 
having assessed Mrs T and the late Mr Ts particular circumstances and 
advised them it would be suitable for their needs. So, instead, it would 
have been up to Mrs T and the late Mr T to decide if the PPI was 
suitable for their needs, based on the information given to them by 
Nationwide.
I cant know how good that information was, but it does seem the price 
was set out, and I dont see that there was anything about the terms of the 
PPI that would have made it seem unsuitable in their circumstances. Not 
being able to pay a mortgage can cause significant difficulties, and the 
PPI would have paid out on top of any employer sickness and redundancy 
benefits, and possibly for longer. And Ive not been told anything to 
suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out, or that the late 
Mr T would have been caught by any of the significant exclusions in the 
policy. So the PPI would have been potentially useful.
 So my current view is that its unlikely the PPI was mis-sold.
In response to my provisonal decision, Mrs T said she didnt agree with me. Her main points were, in summary:
Mrs T and the late Mr T both had life insurance policies.
Both were fit and healthy and in secure work.
If theyd wanted PPI it would have been in both names.
Mrs T is certain she did not agree to take out the PPI.
Mrs T would have claimed on the PPI when Mr T was made redundant and when he 
had a serious accident.
It is unlikely she claimed and then was told she wasnt covered  as she would at that 
stage in her life have cancelled the PPI as she was no longer living with Mr T. 
Mrs T has always kept documentation and she would have kept documents about 
PPI
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that there are unresolved questions. But, as this happened so long ago, there is no 
likelihood that these can ever be resolved. In my provisional decision, I explained why the 
PPI might not have been in both names, and that there was some documentary evidence 
that Mrs T was, at least at one point, aware of the PPI. 
The rest remains unprovable, and so I cant fairly say its likely the PPI was added without 
consent. 
Nationwide Building Society has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T and 
the estate of the late Mr T because:
 Nationwide Building Society got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs T and Mr T about that. 
Because Nationwide Building Society didnt tell them, that was unfair.
 To put that right, Nationwide Building Society has paid back the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think 
that is fair in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mrs T 
and the estate of Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 3 June 2022.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman