DRN-4199830
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy ongoing adviser charges totalling £5972.42 were taken from her Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) after she told Quilter Financial Services Ltd she no longer
required ongoing advice.
What happened
In August 2018 Mrs B had transferred her defined benefit (DB) pension into a SIPP. The
value in 2020 was about £1.2m, managed on a discretionary basis by Quilter. There were
also annual advisory reviews, charged at 0.25% of the portfolio, with an adviser that is now
part of Quilter.
Quilter was unable to carry out a review directly with Mrs B in August 2020 and so sent a
Statement of Continued Suitability to her instead. Mrs B was also considering making
investment changes towards socially responsible investments in August 2021, and during
discussions with Quilter about that she asked for the ongoing advice service to be cancelled.
After her instruction, further fees of £1,292 and £4,679 were deducted in October 2021 and
April 2022. As the payments were made in advance for services yet to be provided (and
which now wont be provided), Quilter ultimately offered Mrs B £5,509 compensation in cash
in July 2022. This allowed for 20% tax relief on paying as much as possible of the
compensation back into the SIPP (£3,600 gross), and a 15% reduction to the remainder to
allow for the future tax treatment of funds that couldnt otherwise be paid into the pension.
Although investments had already been cashed in to meet the overcollected charges, Quilter
also calculated that Mrs B was better off as a result of this at the time of its offer, because
the markets had fallen. As a goodwill gesture it made no further downward adjustment to the
amount offered. £300 was also added for the distress and inconvenience she suffered.
Mrs B has told us that she hasnt accepted Quilters offer and so hasnt received this money.
She remains unhappy about the assumption made that she will pay some of the
compensation back into her SIPP, resulting in an reduction for tax relief. This is because she
doesnt feel shes had enough support from Quilter on how to get this payment into her
pension. She now also asks why it took the adviser until October 2021 to inform AJ Bell that
she had cancelled the ongoing advice, and what would have happened if she hadnt queried
the discrepancy. She is seeking a full refund of the overcollected fee, plus a reconsideration
of the compensation for distress caused.
Our investigator asked Mrs B if she intended to use part of the redress to pay one years
maximum contribution to her SIPP. Referring to the additional paperwork being involved she
has said she felt this was too difficult, and probably wouldnt do it.
As a result, the investigator thought Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld because the right
tax adjustment was to reduce the total fees by 15%. This was an appropriate adjustment to
ensure she was not overcompensated because eventually, Mrs B would take a 25% tax-free
cash sum from her pension pot and the remainder would likely be taxed at the basic rate.
The investigator also said that Quilter should re-establish whether there was an investment
loss from these excess funds not being invested in the pension up to the present date.
Quilter didnt agree with the investigator. It maintained that its offer best ensured that Mrs B
was placed back into the position she would have been in, had the money remained in her
pension  by assuming she will pay it back into the pension. As its offer was fair and
reasonable at the time it was made, it didnt consider it was obliged to recalculate if the
position with any investment loss had changed.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 7 June 2023. In that decision, I said that I 
wouldnt ordinarily agree with Quilters expectation that it is for Mrs B to make all the
arrangements herself to redirect part of the payment it proposed to make to her, back into
her pension scheme. As an ombudsman service, we do aim to put the consumer back into
the position they would have been in had the error not taken place, but subject to the
limitations on getting redress paid into a pension and the associated requirements.
Compensation that is paid into a pension is now treated as a tax-relievable member
contribution (essentially, on the basis that there is no latitude in the HMRC rules for it to be
treated as anything else). So, Quilter is entitled to make a reduction to account for full basic
tax relief on any payment it is making into the pension. In Mrs Bs case, this is limited to
compensation of £3,600 gross (after tax relief is added back on), as she has confirmed she
has no earnings to support a higher contribution.
However in my view, there needs to be a degree of co-operation between the respondent
business and the consumer for a payment into their pension to be fairly achieved. I would
expect the business to be willing to make the payment (or part of it, in this case) directly to
the pension provider  and obtain the necessary forms for Mrs B to sign. It doesnt seem to
me that there was going to be this level of assistance from Quilter in this case, so Im not
surprised that Mrs B objected.
Where it isnt possible to achieve payment of compensation into the pension, we wouldnt
expect a business to reduce the payment by the full 20% of basic rate tax relief. As the
payment would have to be made to Mrs B in cash instead, we would consider what tax she
would later have to pay on these funds if they were still in the pension, that she now wont
have to pay. For most people, the answer to that is 15% - because if they pay basic rate tax,
they only do so on 75% of the proceeds, as 25% is the tax-free element. In actual fact
though, I think these points have become moot because of something else Ive noticed about
Mrs Bs situation.
The last valuation we had for Mrs Bs SIPP looked to be over the lifetime allowance (LTA),
which is currently £1.073m. From what shes told us it seems likely that Mrs B has, or will in
future, put a total value of benefits into payment that exceed this figure if she puts her
pension into drawdown. Mrs B may want to check her paperwork to see if this is the case.
Although the government recently abolished all the other tax charges for exceeding the LTA,
there is still no additional tax-free cash available once benefits in excess of the LTA have
been put into payment. That means that the additional funds in the pension that a cash
payment represents, would have been taxed at the full rate of 20% as income.
So, irrespective of how Quilter pays compensation to Mrs B  whether it is a cash payment
or if some of it goes directly into her pension - I think that the correct answer will be to
reduce that payment by 20%. As Im not satisfied that Quilters offer to Mrs B was calculated
correctly, I also think its reasonable to look again at whether those amounts, had they
remained invested in her pension in October 2021 and April 2022, would have been worth
more today.The closest benchmark to the way Mrs Bs pension is invested, that I have access to, is the
FTSE UK Private Investor Balanced Total Return Index. This contains a similar split of
shares to bonds as in Mrs Bs current portfolio. At the time of my provisional decision, that 
Index was almost exactly the same level as its values in both October 2021 and April 2022, 
and of course fluctuates on a daily basis. So, my provisional decision was that I didnt think it 
was necessary for Quilter to make any further uplift to the refund of charges.
I invited both parties to respond to the provisional decision and my comments about the level 
of award which should be made for distress and inconvenience, which Ill revisit below. 
Quilter agreed with the provisional decision. Mrs B said that she felt she would have to 
accept the compensation for financial loss, but she made the following comments about how 
shed been treated by Quilter:
Quilter had dealt with the matter in a high handed manner with no real apology nor 
concern for their customer. 
She had to wait for a considerable length of time to get any resolution during which 
time Quilter was content to leave her position unresolved.
It was a concern that systems are not in place to pick up incorrect fee payments.
In view of Quilters unhelpful tone and it requiring her to take the matter to the 
ombudsman, she felt an increased sum should be paid for the upset caused.
Mrs B also clarified that she has accessed a small lump sum of £24350 and is taking a small 
monthly income of £1383 since November 2022. She has no other pension funds .
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mrs B was minded to accept the compensation for financial loss, although she did 
have concerns about the distress and inconvenience payment. 
In terms of the financial loss, I set out in the provisional decision (above) how this should be 
calculated. At the time of my provisional decision, there hadnt been a material increase in 
the benchmark index of performance closest to how Mrs Bs pension was invested, and as 
that was very recently checked Im not persuaded its necessary to look at this again. 
Mrs Bs comments about how much tax-free cash shes taken, suggest that she hasnt yet 
crystallised all of her pension pot. But given its value at the time of the complaint, which is 
likely to continue increasing over time, I remain of the view that its likely Mrs B will crystallise 
benefits which exceed her lifetime allowance in total  before the redress payment is taken 
into account. So, a 20% reduction to allow for future income tax on this payment is in my 
view fair and reasonable. 
Quilter also made a £300 offer for distress and inconvenience to Mrs B, which I said in my 
provisional decision was fair and reasonable, and consistent with the level of awards this 
service would have made in comparable situations to Mrs Bs. She has said in response that 
the £300 doesnt go far enough in recognising how Quilter has dealt with her, but Im 
satisfied that it does. 
It was clearly a mistake for Quilter not to cancel the ongoing fee arrangement, but on being 
made aware of its mistake it made proposals to put this right. Mrs B didnt agree with those 
proposals and brought them to the Financial Ombudsman Service, but this hasnt resulted in more compensation from Quilter. As Quilter didnt take into account that Mrs B was already 
over her lifetime allowance, Ive set out above how it would be fair for Quilter to pay her 
slightly less and reduce the payment by 20%. 
I dont think this is evidence of Quilter treating Mrs B in a high handed manner or being 
unwilling to put matters right. Mrs B had a choice whether to accept Quilters original offer or 
ask this service to look into it, with no guarantee that the amount on the table would remain 
the same. We dont increase the awards we make for distress and inconvenience simply 
because of the extra inconvenience of referring a complaint to this service.
I understand Mrs Bs strength of feeling about what would have happened if shed not
questioned the payment, but this is a matter of speculation. It doesnt alter that Mrs B now 
has an award from this service for her financial loss which puts her back into the position she 
would have been in, but for Quilters mistake.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and require Quilter Financial Services Ltd to pay her back the 
fees it wrongly deducted from her pension, reduced by 20% to allow for future income tax 
that would otherwise have been paid when these sums were withdrawn from the pension as 
income. I also require Quilter to pay her the £300 compensation it has already offered for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Gideon Moore
Ombudsman