The complaint
After making a successful claim on the group income protection insurance policy she has the 
benefit of, Ms D is unhappy that Unum Ltd has stopped paying the monthly benefit.
What happened
Ms D had the benefit of an income protection policy (the policy) through her employer at the 
time, which can pay out a portion of her income after shed been off work sick for 26 weeks 
(the deferred period). 
Ms D became absent from work in May 2009 and a claim was made on the policy during the 
deferred period, which was accepted by Unum. It began to pay the monthly benefit with 
effect of November 2009. 
Unum reviewed Ms Ds claim in 2017 and after having spoken to her and reviewed her 
updated medical records, it asked her to attend a functional capabilities assessment  which 
she did in November 2018. Around that time, it also arranged for surveillance to be carried 
out on Ms D and she was filmed over three days in November 2018.
Unum decided to stop paying the monthly benefit with effect 30 November 2018 but it did 
agree to pay a lump sum transitional payment, equating to three months benefit, to support 
Ms D returning to work.
Ms D didnt think that was fair and appealed that decision. Unum maintained its position so, 
unhappy, Ms D complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ds complaint; 
in light of all the evidence he didnt think Unums decision to stop paying the monthly benefit 
was unfair or unreasonable.  
Ms D disagreed so her complaint has been passed to me to consider everything afresh and 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unum has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt turn down a 
claim unreasonably. When making a claim, its for Ms D to demonstrate that she meets the 
definition of incapacity and she was able to do that.
As Unum has terminated the claim, its for Unum to show, on the balance of probabilities, 
that Ms D no longer meets the definition of incapacity. 
DRN-1287303Under the policy, for the first two years immediately following the end of the deferred period, 
a member is incapacitated if they are: 
 unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation; and 
are not performing any occupation
After the two years, the definition of incapacity changes to:
unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to perform the material and substantial duties of 
the insured occupation; and
unable, by reason of their illness or injury, to follow any occupation for which they are 
reasonably fitted by reason of training, education or experience
Insured occupation means:
the gainful occupation the member was actively following for the employer Immediately prior 
to incapacity
Material and substantial means:
duties that are normally required for the performance of the members insured occupation 
and which cannot be reasonably omitted or modified by the member of employer
The role Ms D was carrying out immediately before she was unable to work was a sedentary 
 mainly desk based  position and she estimates involved 60% typing. 
Ms Ds claim was originally accepted and so Unum agreed, at that time, she met the 
definition of incapacity as set out in the policy. As Ive said above, as Unum has terminated 
the claim its for it to show she no longer met that definition. Im not a medical expert. So, Ive 
relied on the evidence available to me when considering this issue. 
Having done so, Im satisfied Unums decision to stop making monthly payments under the 
policy is fair and reasonable. I know Ms D will be very unhappy with my decision and nothing 
in my decision should be taken to mean that Ms D hasnt been in pain for a number of years 
or that she continues to be so. But for the reasons Ive set out below, Im persuaded Unum 
has been able to fairly demonstrate that Ms D no longer met the definition of being 
incapacitated under the policy at the time it took the decision to stop paying the monthly 
benefit. 
Ive seen a note of a conversation between Ms D and one of Unums representatives dated 
July 2018. It reflects that Ms D says she is still experiencing constant, significant pain but 
apart from patches, she shed stopped taking pain relief. Shed also been discharged from 
the pain team. 
Its reflected that she said she:
was able to walk upstairs but was in the process of selling her house to move to a 
bungalow;
takes the train and bus, and is able to walk independently to appointments;
is able to wash, cook and dress everyday on her own;
swims twice each week and tries to walk five times each week, 30 minutes at a time; 
is able to tidy up, sweep and mop floors.  
However, she reported being unable to sit due to the pain she was in and this was the main 
barrier in returning to work. 
Ive also reviewed the surveillance footage (and the accompanying report), commissioned by 
Unum, taken over a number of hours, and over a period of three consecutive days, in 
November 2018. Amongst other things this shows Ms D:
standing and walking, unaided, for long periods of time, without stopping. Her walking 
pattern appears consistent and regular;
sitting on the train / tube for significant periods of time  the surveillance report says 
40 minutes at any one time;
walking up and down stairs at stations and in shops   sometimes using a handrail, 
other times not  and walking uphill;
browsing around shops;
carrying a bag over her shoulder and a second bag in her other hand;
bending down; and
lifting and passing bags to another person.
 
The activities Ms D was doing in the surveillance footage arent necessarily consistent with 
what she reported to the independent chartered physiotherapist who met with her, also in 
November 2018 (the assessment). The physiotherapist states they had been qualified for 
over 25 years and first started working in the field of functional testing in 2000.
For example, the assessment report reflects that Ms D was asked: 
what do you see as the barriers to you returning to work at this time?
Its reflected Ms D replies that she:
would not be able to sit for prolonged periods and would not be able to stand and walk 
carrying files
On arrival in the assessment room its reflected Ms D requested to lie down on the 
assessment couch and remained lying down throughout most of the appointment; the 
longest period of sitting during the physical assessment was 6 minutes which indicated only 
occasional sitting tolerance.
The physiotherapist concludes that:
... all of today's objective test findings showed extremely high levels of unreliability in 
respect of both Ms D's reported symptoms and functional capabilities
from a physical perspective, today's objective findings indicated functional levels that 
would be compatible with Ms Ds previous sedentary role with the exception of sitting 
tolerance... 
And:
recent MRI scans also indicate no significant ongoing problems to account for the level of 
reported symptoms. Therefore, it would normally be expected that Ms Ds condition could be 
accommodated in a graduated return to a sedentary work environment with appropriate attention to good working practices, regular posture breaks and optimal ergonomic 
workstation layout, which in this case would be likely to include a sit to stand desk...
So I dont think Unum has unfairly concluded that Ms D was no longer incapacitated. 
Although, Ms D told Unum and the physiotherapist that she was unable to sit or periods of 
time because of the pain she was in, thats not consistent with the surveillance footage. And 
the physiotherapist concluded that with some work station adjustments, she could be able to 
return to work.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account the contents of a letter from Ms Ds 
consultant orthopaedic and spinal surgeon (the surgeon) dated January 2019. This reflects 
theyd seen Ms D in their clinic and that, clinically, she has pain affecting her whole body; her 
neck, shoulders, upper back, middle back and lower back. And concludes that Ms D
is very disabled and is unable to return to work, contrary to Unums decision.
I can see that Unums medical advisor considered the contents of this letter. They noted that 
the letter doesnt document any examination findings or provide any clinical explanation for 
the pains reported by Ms D. It concludes that the surgeon didnt provide any medical or 
functional justification in support of their view and it was at odds with the objective evidence 
obtained.
Further, with Ms Ds permission, Unum wrote to the surgeon telling him about the 
surveillance and the assessment, and offering to provide them copies if they wanted to 
review. Although, initially, it said a formal response wasnt required, Unum did then 
subsequently write to the surgeon a number of times via their secretary, as requested, for 
their comments. In one of these communications it said, unless Unum heard back from the 
surgeon on 1 April 2019, it would assume they had nothing further to add and complete its 
review. The surgeon hasnt provided any further comment, despite Unum making further 
requests after April 2019.  
In light of the contents of the surgeons letter and given what the surveillance footage and 
assessment reflects, I dont think Unum unreasonably placed less weight on what the 
surgeon said  particularly as they havent provided further comment once aware of the 
outcomes of the assessment and surveillance and the letter was written, seemingly, without 
knowledge of what they showed. 
Ms Ds GP also provided a letter in January 2019 in support of her appeal against the 
decision to stop paying her claim. However, I dont think Unum has unreasonably concluded 
that her GP mainly referred to her surgeons letter (referred to above), which 
contained statements without providing medical or functional justification and also that some 
of the comments made by the GP werent consistent with the evidence as a whole.
Ive taken into account everything else Ms D has said, including what she says about 
adopting various coping mechanisms to assist with her pain and that being single, shes 
required to go out, on occasions, to get things and attend appointments. She says the 
surveillance doesnt show the days when she is in so much pain that shes unable to go out 
at all; when shes forced to do nothing but lay in her bed. She also says when shes at home; 
she spends much of her time laying down with her knees elevated.
I agree that the surveillance footage only covers a three day period and those three days 
might not be typical of what shes able to do every day of the week. Further, it doesnt show 
whats shes doing indoors. But in light of all the collective evidence, I dont think Unum has 
unfairly concluded that Ms D no longer met the definition of incapability, and thereafter, 
stopping the monthly benefit payable under the policy when it did.Ive also taken into account the recent letters Ms D has sent me from various medical 
professionals either dated late 2019 or early 2020. They show that Ms D is in pain and shes 
been invited to various medical appointments to investigate the possible, ongoing, cause of 
this, and ways to treat / alleviate that pain. However, theres not anything written in those 
letters that persuade me that Unums decision to stop paying the benefit when it did - and 
based on the evidence it had available at the time - was unreasonable. 
Ms D also says that Unum unfairly withdrew its offer to pay her £50,000 in full and final 
settlement of her claim under the policy in June 2019, after she complained about its 
decision to stop paying the monthly benefit. I can see that this offer was made and Ms D was 
advised to take advice on it as if accepted, she wouldnt be permitted to make any further 
claims on the policy. 
Ms D declined that offer on 10 June 2019 and requested Unum proceed to issuing a final 
response. That was, of course, her choice to make. However, I dont think Unum has acted 
unfairly by not reinstating that offer subsequently, particularly given that Ive found that it 
didnt do anything wrong by stopping the monthly payments. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman