DRN-2522456
The complaint
R (a limited company) says Travelers Insurance Company Limited wrongly declined a theft
claim made on its commercial insurance policy.
What happened
The certificate of commercial motor insurance issued by Travelers shows that vehicles
owned by R are covered by the policy. So are those owned by Rs customers whilst in Rs
custody and control in connection with its business.
In December 2018, a car owned by Rs sole director was stolen from Rs premises. The car
was bought by him in 2016 for £105,000 and is estimated to have been worth £200,000 or
more at the time of the theft. Travelers declined the claim. It said the car wasnt owned by R
and that the director wasnt one of Rs customers. It said had Rs broker mentioned when the
policy was set up that cover was needed for the directors personal vehicle, it could have
provided a directors policy extension. But that didnt happen.
One of our investigators considered Rs complaint. She was satisfied that the directors car
wasnt owned by R. She noted that it was in the custody and control of R when stolen and
that a customers vehicle would have been covered in that situation. The investigator didnt
agree with Travelers that for the car to be treated as a customers car, there would have to
be a contract between the director and R.
The investigator accepted that a contract would be normal practice between R and its
customers, but she didnt think it was reasonable to expect that to apply between R and its
director. She said there wasnt an exclusion for directors vehicles in the policy - and that the
broker didnt know an extension for such cover was required. In addition, in her view, the car
was declared on a list of vehicles provided to Travelers at inception.
Travelerss legal representative said the director couldnt be considered as one of Rs
customers as he couldnt show that any payment had been made to R for its services. She
said if the director wanted to store his car on Rs premises, the broker should have asked
Travelers about how it could be covered. She said the list of cars the investigator had
referred to in her view was one shared between the director and the broker in 2017. She
said it was never on Travelers business file, and although a car of the same type as the
stolen car was on the list, there was no evidence that it was the same car.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
Its not disputed that the stolen car wasnt owned by R. I think the director might reasonably
have been classed as one of Rs customers for the purposes of the policy had he been
paying for the cars storage at the time of the theft. I appreciate that he had the right to store
the car on Rs premises free of charge, but it still had to be insured, in order to cover it in the
case of theft and other perils. Although the car was left in Rs custody and control, I dont
think the director was one of Rs customers, and the car wasnt there in connection with Rs
business. Consequently, I dont think it was covered by the policy.
In my opinion, its reasonable to assume that the director and the broker were commercially
aware. I think they should have checked with Travelers before assuming (as they seem to
have done here) that the directors privately-owned car would be covered on Rs commercial
policy. I think that would apply regardless of the type of car being stored. But I think it was
especially important to ensure cover was in place given the cars very high value. Had a
query been made at inception, Travelers could have arranged extra cover for it.
I dont think its fair to expect a commercial motor policy to state that privately-owned cars
wont be covered, when the wording makes it clear that only cars owned by the company 
or by its customers (in some circumstances) - are covered. And I dont think it was for
Travelers to check when the policy was set up whether R expected the directors privately-
owned cars to be covered on its commercial policy. The broker put forward the proposal
based on Rs requirements. I think it was reasonable for Travelers to consider the
commercial risks posed in it and base the policy cover and the premium on that.
In my opinion, the list of cars provided by the broker isnt really relevant to this complaint.
Theres no evidence that Travelers ever saw the list, and it says it didnt. In any event, the
list was a record of cars in Rs workshop two years before the theft. If all the cars listed were
owned by Rs customers, they would have been covered by the policy at the time. One of the
cars listed could have been the car that was later stolen. But even if thats the case, I dont
think that amounted to declaring it as the directors privately-owned vehicle.
I asked the parties to comment on my provisional findings. The following information was 
provided on behalf of R by its representative: 
Rs director submitted a statement in which he said he was Rs customer through an 
unwritten vehicle business contract with it, which had existed with previous privately-
owned cars hed stored with R. He also said it was Rs intention to cover all vehicles 
on its premises. He said it had an insurable interest in his car through a contractual 
or bailment relationship with him. Rs representative said the directors statement was 
evidence that he was a business customer of R.
Rs representative also said the directors extension only applied to road risks, that 
Travelers hadnt asked about the number of cars covered and that there was no 
exclusion for directors cars. He said a bailment relationship between the director and 
R existed because Rs director (on behalf of R) had agreed that the car would be 
insured under the policy. And as the director (on behalf of R) had also voluntarily 
agreed to take possession of the car, that gave R an insurable interest in it. 
Rs representative also said that, based on either a contractual or a bailment 
relationship, the policys inadvertent omission clause applied, as R intended all cars 
on its premises to be covered, and it thought they were. He said R had an insurable 
interest in the directors car. In his view, Travelers must therefore deem the car to be 
covered  perhaps subject to an extra premium.    
Finally, Rs representative said the complaint should be upheld on the grounds of 
overall fairness. He said Travelers underwriter had initially said the claim would be 
covered, and there had then been a delay in dealing with it. He said there was 
ambiguity about the meaning of the word customer in the policy, so it should be 
construed in Rs favour. He said there was no intention to deceive on Rs part and 
that the premium to cover the car had been paid, as it was on a list of cars insured. 
We asked Travelers to comment on Rs response and it replied as follows:
Travelers said new points and arguments had been introduced in the directors statement about his status as a customer, including the new issues of bailment and 
the policys inadvertent omission clause. 
It remained of the view that the director wasnt Rs customer and that his privately-
owned car wasnt a customers car. It said even if the car was on the list referred to 
by Rs representative (and theres no evidence that it was) it still wasnt a customers 
car. It said the ordinary meaning should be given to the word customer in the 
contract, so no ambiguity arose. It said its underwriter had put forward a view (later 
retracted) which did not amount to confirmation of cover. It said the directors 
extension wasnt limited to road risks but also applied to material damages. And it 
queried why, on the one hand, R said the premium for the car had been paid, yet on 
the other hand said it had omitted to insure it.
Travelers said Rs representative had tried to show there was a contractual or 
bailment relationship between R and the director in order to support Rs contention 
that it had an insurable interest in the car, so it could try to rely on the inadvertent 
omission clause. Travelers said in reality the car was stored on Rs premises for the 
directors convenience only, not for business purposes, and there was no contractual 
or bailment relationship between the director and R.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the comments made in the directors statement only amount to an assertion that he 
was a business customer of Rs in relation to the car that was stolen. The director says he 
had a business relationship with R previously, in connection with his other privately-owned 
cars. He says one of them was stored on Rs premises for five years, during which work was 
done on it, for which the director paid. And he then drove the car using Rs branding, to drum 
up further business for R. 
No supporting evidence of the business arrangement in relation to that car has been 
provided. Travelers may not have known about it  and I think its debateable whether the 
car was covered by the policy - at least until plans for the work and the payment were 
agreed between the director and R. In my view, its doubtful. But I dont think previous 
arrangements are relevant to this case anyway. My understanding is that no work had been 
done on the stolen car and theres nothing to show that any business arrangement was in 
place in connection with it. The director says the stolen car was a personal investment. It 
seems it had increased significantly in value without any work being done on it. I think the 
director could have disposed of the car at any point with no involvement from R, as (based 
on the information Ive seen) I dont think R had any interest in it. 
In order to rely on a contractual relationship with R (or one arising through bailment) I think 
the director would have to be able to show he had some kind of arrangement with R (based 
on something such as charges and duties) in relation to the stolen cars storage that would 
make him one of Rs business customers. As I dont think R can show that either relationship 
existed, I dont think the inadvertent omission clause applies to the situation.  
 
In my opinion, the most important issue is whether the insurer was made aware of the risk it 
was later asked to cover. I still dont think the list of cars relied on by R shows that the 
insurer knew about the stolen car. Travelers said it never saw the list and R cant show that it 
did. I also think that as Travelers didnt ask for a list of the cars that were covered by the 
policy (according to R) that supports Travelers assertion that it wasnt aware of a list and 
thought it didnt need one. I think its clear that Travelers intended all of Rs cars and its customers cars to be covered, 
in line with the commercial policys terms and conditions. Presumably, the cars insured 
would have changed during the policy year. That didnt matter, as long as R could show that 
the cars were owned by it or by its customers should a claim have to be made. But the 
directors privately-owned car didnt fall into either category, in my opinion, as I dont think R 
has shown that its director was one of Rs customers in relation to his stolen car. 
I remain of the view that as the director and the broker were (or should have been) 
commercially aware, they should have considered whether a privately-owned car would be 
covered by Rs commercial policy. I dont agree that a commercial policy needed to have an 
exclusion for privately-owed directors cars. I think the policy was clear about the cars that 
were covered. I dont there was any ambiguity in the policy about the word customer. I think 
its reasonable for Travelers to say it should be given its everyday meaning. 
My understanding is that directors extensions are common in commercial policies, yet it 
seems no thought was given to getting one for the stolen car. I dont think there was any 
intention to deceive Travelers, but in my opinion an incorrect assumption was made that the 
directors privately-owned car would be covered by the commercial policy.
Rs representative thinks the claim should be covered on the basis of general fairness. 
Thats partly because an underwriter said at one stage that it should be covered and partly 
because there was a delay in dealing with the claim (as well as ambiguity in the policy and 
the lack of an intention to deceive, which Ive already referred to above). 
The underwriters initial view was retracted, so that cant be relied on. And I think the delay 
has to be viewed in the context of the basic issue, which is the dispute about whether the car 
was covered by the policy or not. When we consider fairness, we take into account whether 
an insurer has acted reasonably overall in the way it has dealt with a claim. In this case, 
although it may have been possible to deal with the claim more quickly, I dont think theres 
evidence that Travelers did anything that was substantially wrong. So I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to uphold Rs complaint.  
Rs representative put forward legal points in response to my provisional decision that Ive 
referred to above. If R decides to reject my final decision, the option of taking legal action 
remains open to it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman