DRN-1820065
The complaint
Mr K complains Santander UK Plc closed his accounts without providing sufficient notice. 
Hes also unhappy they didnt accept credits he was due to receive which led to negative 
reporting on his credit file. Hed like compensation, the overdraft balance to be cleared and 
the negative credit reporting removed.
What happened
On the 10 July 2019 Santander restricted Mr Ks access to his Santander account and on 
the 11 July 2019 they closed his account with immediate effect. At the time of Mr Ks account 
closure he had an overdraft of £333  and in July 2019 he made contact with the bank to 
explain he was expecting credits into his account from a merchant Ill call U. Mr K explained 
he was aware that there was an outstanding overdraft on his account and asked Santander 
to remove the blocks from his account to allow the credit from U. He said once these credits 
had come in hed repay the remaining balance. 
The payments didnt credit Mr Ks account, so he complained to Santander that they didnt 
give him the required notice period on closing his account and hadnt allow his payments to 
credit as theyd agreed. 
Santander didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint  they explained that theyd follow their terms and 
conditions when closing his account. And had a responsibility to accurately report data to 
credit reference agencies. 
Mr K wasnt satisfied with the banks response so complained to our service. He explained 
that due to the negative impact on his credit file he couldnt get a new mortgage and wasnt 
able to obtain a promotional deal with another bank. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt think Santander needed to 
do anything further. She explained that Santander had followed the terms and condition of 
Mr Ks account when closing it and was satisfied theyd allowed credits to come into his 
account from U to clear the overdraft balance. Because these hadnt been received she felt 
Santander were entitled to report the overdrawn balance to credit reference agencies. 
Mr K didnt accept our investigators opinion and in doing so said:
-Hed informed U to send the credit straight to his bank account, they tried before the 
3 September 2019 to deposit the money but Santander didnt do their job so it was 
never received. 
-Hes now lost his credit from U.
-Nobody would want their credit file ruined for 6 years for £140, and hed like the 
adverse data removed. 
As Mr K didnt accept our investigators opinion its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And in doing so Ive come to a similar conclusion to our investigator for the same reasons.  
Ill explain why below.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with a bank.
But, before a bank closes an account it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms
and conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks account state that there are certain circumstances in
which Santander can immediately close a customers account. The terms and conditions of 
Mr Ks account state that Santander can close an account with immediate notice if a 
customer breaches any of these terms:
17.3
a) Act abusively, offensively or violently towards our staff; or
b) Become bankrupt; or
c) Misuse your account; or
d) Act dishonestly with us; or
e) Act in any way to give rise to reasonable suspicion of fraud or other criminal 
activities.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ks account  and Im satisfied that Santander 
acted within them when they closed his account immediately. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr K and I appreciate the closure of his account caused 
him inconvenience. But Santander can make commercial decisions about who it offers
banking services to. They cant unfairly discriminate against a consumer. But they can
decide they no longer want to do business with individuals. Thats because they have the
commercial freedom to decide who theyd like to contract with. And Im satisfied that
in Mr Ks case Santander exercised its commercial freedom legitimately when it decided to
close his account.
Overdrawn balance
At the time of Mr Ks account being close on the 11 July 2019 Mr K had an overdraft balance 
of £333. On the 16 July 2019 two credits came in reducing Mr Ks overdrawn balance to 
£174. Mr Ks explained that on in July 2019 Santander agreed to remove the credit blocks on 
his account to enable the payments to come in from U, but despite this Mr K says Santander 
didnt honour their agreement.
Ive looked at the evidence provided by both Mr K and Santander, and both parties are in 
agreement that during a phone call in July 2019 Santander agreed to remove the credit 
blocks on his account. Looking at the account notes Santander have provided, the bank 
agreed that between the 25 July and 26 August 2019 theyd allow credits from U to enter his account. Whats is in dispute is whether Santander actioned this as agreed. Ive looked at 
the account records provided by Santander and I can see that the block on receiving credits 
was removed and then re-imposed on the 4 September 2019. I understand that Mr K 
explains that U informed him that the credits were being returned from his bank account  
but I can only go by the evidence Ive seen. And on seeing the banks records Im satisfied 
the block was removed and the account was free to receive credits. 
Mr K responded to our investigators view by saying hes lost out because hes unable to 
obtain his credit from U  for the reasons Ive explained above I think Santander followed 
what they agreed with Mr K in July 2019. Id suggest that if Mr K wishes to pursue obtaining 
his credit further he contacts U directly. 
Mr K also commented that nobody would want their credit file ruined for £140. Ive thought 
about Mr Ks point here, and I think its clear he did make attempts to arrange repayment of 
the outstanding balance. Hes requested that any negative information is removed from his 
credit file  but Santander have a responsibility to accurately record information with credit 
reference agencies. And Im satisfied thats what theyve done here. 
I release this will be disappointing to Mr K but in conclusion I wont be asking Santander to 
do anything further here. 
My final decision
My Final Decision is I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman