DRN-4427445
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained about their home insurer AXA Insurance UK Plc because it 
wont pay a project management or contingency fee as part of a cash settlement for insured 
repairs to be done at their home. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs Hs home suffered subsidence. They werent happy with how AXA dealt with 
their claim. They complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service and later issued court 
proceedings against AXA seeking compensation for the upset caused. 
In 2023, the parties decided to cash settle the repair work. Mr and Mrs H presented three 
quotes and AXA paid against the lowest, less the project management and contingency fees 
detailed therein. In a final response dated 1 August 2023 AXA said it didnt think the 
reinstatement programme warranted project managing  and if it did it would usually only 
pay at 10%, not the 15% quoted. It said it would consider paying for a project manager if a 
suitably qualified person, independent of the reinstatement contractor, was appointed. AXA 
said it wasnt clear if the contingency fee would actually be charged  so it wouldnt pay that 
upfront. However, it would consider making a payment if Mr and Mrs H showed it their 
contractor was expecting this to be paid.
Mr and Mrs H felt AXA was being unfair and unreasonable. They said the settlement was 
meant to be based on the costs they would incur for the work  and with the lower quote 
including both a project management and contingency fee, these were sums they would 
have to pay. They said the lowest quote had given a comprehensive breakdown and not 
absorbed costs like this within the general scope of work. Mr and Mrs H said project 
management was essential to avoid further delays. Regarding the contingency they said the 
lowest quote had included this to address the variability in labour and material costs and 
was to be applied as the contractor saw fit i.e. not specified. 
Our Investigator thought AXA should be paying the project management fee at 15%, subject 
to an invoice for the same. But, bearing in mind the quote said the contingency fee was for 
unforeseen works, she felt it was reasonable that AXA would only consider paying this 
subject to Mr and Mrs H showing they had to pay it  with it being reasonably entitled to 
enquire as to what it was being charged for.
AXA agreed. Mr and Mrs H objected. 
They said if theyd known the breakdown of costs would be used against them, they wouldnt 
have allowed any of the contractors to add sums against each area of work and AXA 
wouldnt have been able to cherry-pick what not to pay. They said a cash settlement was 
meant to allow them to complete work as they see fit  AXA shouldnt be seeking to control 
that outlay. The purpose of obtaining the quotes, they believed, was to determine the 
quantum of the cash settlement, and AXA had chosen the lowest of the three quotes so it 
should pay in-line with the costs detailed. Meaning they shouldnt be put to proving how the 
sums are to be spent, its their choice how they go about fulfilling the project. They said 
theyd explained to AXA that the contingency did not relate directly to unforeseen elements 
of the work  it was more to cover inflation and any cost differences which may occur. So 
they said its not possible to provide specific invoices for the contingency sums spent. They 
said their contractor wouldnt be prepared to invoice AXA directly but they will raise an 
invoice to AXA if it will agree to pay it. They said they believe a court would understand and 
appreciate what a cash settlement means. Their complaint was referred for an 
Ombudsmans consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I find Im of the same view as our Investigator, for the same reasons. I know 
this has been a difficult claim for Mr and Mrs H and that this last part of it has likely been 
frustrating. But I note theyve chosen to place the concerns about claim handling and 
compensation before the courts. So I wont comment further here on any upset which may 
have occurred.
I think AXA should pay the project management fee detailed on the quote. Im glad its 
revised it position in this respect  it was happy to settle for Mr and Mrs Hs cost for getting 
the insured work done and that sum has been quoted for that purpose. But as Mr and Mrs H 
have pointed out  that has been quoted by this contractor because that is how they choose 
to work. Its not something which every contractor would charge. As theyve also pointed out 
the cash settlement leaves them free to fulfil the project how they wish. So I do think its 
reasonable that AXA wants to see an invoice for this cost  which would usually be an 
invoice from the contractor to their client (Mr and Mrs H)  showing that Mr and Mrs H have 
incurred such a cost in getting the insured work done. 
AXA agreeing to cash settle does not just mean it should open a blank cheque book for 
payment of whatever sum is created and placed before it. AXA reasonably needs to know 
that any costs it is being asked to settle for, are costs associated with the claim, with the 
insured repairs which it is reasonably liable for. For that reason most insurers wont pay 
costs such as VAT or contingency sums upfront. 
As Mr and Mrs H have pointed out, the costs which they think might fall under the cost label 
of contingency arent specified. And the quote actually details the contingency sum as being 
for unforeseen additional repair work etc. That is usually what a contingency sum is added 
for  to give some leeway on a quote whilst preventing the bottom-line sum from increasing. 
But AXA is liable for covering the cost of insured work  work which has, so far, been 
unforeseen cant have been validated as necessary insured repairs. Even where a cash 
settlement is made it is quite normal for an insurer to agree in principle to considering other 
extra costs/work as it arises, subject to work pausing so it has chance to consider that. As 
long as an insurer carries out that consideration reasonably, its likely that wouldnt be seen 
as unfair. What wouldnt be fair is for AXA to pay £12,000 up front for work which may not 
come to pass or, if extra work is done, it has not had a chance to consider its liability for.Putting things right
I require AXA, subject to proof of outlay being provided, of Mr and Mrs H incurring a project 
management fee, to reimburse their outlay. Its liability in this respect will be for a project 
management fee of up to 15%, if theyve incurred a project management fee of more than 
15%, its liability will be limited to just 15%.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to provide the redress set out 
above at Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman