DRN-4028782
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Lloyds Bank plc (trading as MBNA) was irresponsible to approve her 
credit card application.
What happened
Mrs R was approved for a credit card with MBNA on 15 August 2018. She was initially given 
a £7,400 credit limit which was increased to £9,000 in March 2019 and then to £10,000 in 
November 2019.
Mrs R says that she doesnt believe that MBNA carried out the correct checks before it 
agreed to the credit card. She said that the lending was clearly unaffordable to her and she 
was struggling with her mental health at the time. Mrs R says that she is struggling 
financially and has tried to release equity from her house but has been declined due to her 
debt management plan and her poor credit rating.
MBNA says it asked Mrs R about her income and checked her credit file. It said she passed 
all its checks and it agreed to offer her a credit card with a £7,400 limit. It then increased her 
limit to £9,000 in March 2019 and to £10,000 in December 2019 following further credit 
checks. It says that, as there has been no bank error and it has an obligation to report 
accurate information, it cannot remove the adverse information from Mrs Rs credit file.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. She found that proportionate 
checks would have shown that Mrs Rs expenditure exceeded her income each month and 
therefore further borrowing was unaffordable to her. She recommended that all interest and 
charges should be refunded to Mrs R and that adverse information should be removed from 
her credit file.
MBNA responded to say, in summary, that the rules in place at the time did not require that 
level of affordability assessment and it was not proportionate given what it knew about 
Mrs Rs income, housing costs and credit history. It adds that Mrs R transferred money into a 
savings account each month and that is not consistent with a customer experiencing 
financial difficulties.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As MBNA said in its response, I need to take into account the relevant rules and guidance 
that were in place at the time of the lending, along with good industry practice.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when MBNA lent to Mrs R. Its rules 
and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that MBNA needed to take reasonable and proportionate 
steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet their loan repayments in a 
sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
At the time of the lending CONC 5.3.1G stated that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of credit is likely 
to be greater and the borrowers required to make payments for an extended period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mrs Rs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did MBNA complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mrs Rs 
loan application to satisfy itself that she would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? Did MBNA make a fair lending decision?
Did MBNA act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive seen evidence to show MBNA asked about Mrs Rs income and housing costs and 
checked her credit file. I acknowledge it no longer has a copy of its affordability calculations 
for August 2018 but based on the information it received Im not satisfied those checks went 
far enough. I say that because:
The credit card was an open-ended account and so MBNA needed to ensure any 
repayments were sustainably affordable long term;
Based on Mrs Rs existing debts, she was already committed to repaying almost 24% 
of her declared income on credit;
oThe new credit card took this figure up to 35%;
MBNA used an estimate for Mrs Rs living expenses which, given her credit 
commitments, I dont find to be proportionate in the circumstances.
Mrs R has provided bank statements from the time which Ive used as a reasonable proxy 
for what proportionate checks would have shown:
Although Mrs Rs income from employment was slightly less than the salary shed 
declared, she also had other regular income taking her average monthly income to 
£2,647;
Mrs Rs mortgage was £724, with council tax, utilities and insurance totalling £370;
Phone and TV costs were £144 with tax and other direct debits coming to £252;
With existing credit commitments of £457, this left Mrs R with £700 for other regular 
expenditure, including food, for herself and her two children.
I can see expenditure on food and groceries of around £400 in the month prior to the 
credit card application.
If MBNA had carried out proportionate checks, I think it would have seen that Mrs R could 
not sustainably afford the repayments on a further credit card with a limit of £7,400 when the 
minimum repayments on such an amount would be over £220. So Im satisfied that it was 
irresponsible for MBNA to approve the new credit card and that minimum credit 
commitments of over 25% of Mrs Rs income going forwards were likely to be unsustainable.
Ive also considered Mrs Rs circumstances at the times of the credit limit increases and I 
can see that her financial situation had not improved. Indeed, I note that MBNA recorded 
that Mrs R had made six consecutive minimum payments in October 2019  just a month 
before it increased her credit limit for the second time.
With regard to what MBNA has said about the regular transfers to Mrs Rs savings account, I 
accept that to be the case. However, those transfers were actually outweighed by money 
being transferred in the opposite direction each month. In fact, on average, Mrs Rs savings 
decreased by about £400 per month in the lead up to the credit card application and she had 
less than £1,200 in the account by the beginning of August 2018. Given that this indicates 
that Mrs Rs expenditure was already exceeding her income to the tune of £400 per month, she could only afford to use her savings in this way for a further three months, even before 
the new credit card was approved.
Finally, I note what Mrs R says about her mental health at the time of the lending. I 
completely sympathise with the position in which she found herself and understand how this 
affected her financial decision-making, but I need to consider whether MBNA acted 
unreasonably as a result. Based on the evidence Ive seen, I cant see that Mrs R made 
MBNA aware of her mental health issues until 2020. As this was after the time of the lending 
decisions, I cant conclude MBNA acted unfairly in this regard.
In summary, I find it was irresponsible to lend to Mrs R and MBNA did not make a fair 
lending decision, although I cannot conclude that it acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank plc (trading as MBNA) should:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied.
oIf the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs R 
along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement. MBNA should also remove all adverse 
information regarding this account from Mrs Rs credit file.
oOr, if after the rework there is still an outstanding balance, MBNA should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs R for the remaining amount. 
Once Mrs R has cleared the balance, any adverse information in relation to 
the account should be removed from her credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MBNA to deduct tax from this interest. It must give Mrs R 
a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it intends to 
apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman