DRN-3075100
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) delayed handling his claim 
for a broken cooker under his appliance protection policy, and then declined it when the 
cooker was stolen.
 What happened
Mr M had appliance protection for his cooker with D&G. He made a claim when the glass 
door was damaged and, for safety reasons, he moved the cooker out of his house into the 
front garden. D&Gs engineer reported there was no fault, but Mr M disagreed. He sent 
photos to show that the cooker didnt have a door. D&G arranged another engineer 
appointment, but Mr Ms cooker was stolen before they could attend.
Mr M complained to D&G that hed had to chase updates on his claim; he didnt think the 
engineer attended when they shouldve done, and he held D&G responsible for the theft. He 
wanted D&G to replace his cooker and pay compensation for the inconvenience caused.
D&G said its engineer reported no fault because the cooker wasn't connected when they 
visited. D&G acknowledged that it hadnt kept Mr M informed about the claim as well as it 
shouldve done and it paid him £25 compensation, cancelled his policy and refunded the 
premiums. However, D&G didnt think it was responsible for the theft and declined Mr Ms 
claim for a replacement cooker.
Our investigator thought D&G had made a fair offer for the failure to keep Mr M updated, but 
she didnt think it was reasonable to hold D&G responsible for the cooker theft. She didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr M didnt agree for a number of reasons. But, overall, he repeated his view that D&G 
hadnt handled his claim properly and it should replace his cooker.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr M will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mr M doesnt think it was fair that D&G declined his claim for his damaged cooker door. D&G 
said it declined his claim because he no longer had the cooker. Ive looked at the policy and 
under the exclusions it says:
We shall not be liable for:
any loss, damage or impairment to functionality caused by: theft, attempted theft, 
neglect, deliberate damage;
The cooker was stolen from Mr Ms garden, so Im satisfied that D&Gs decision to decline 
the claim was in line with the terms of the policy. I dont think D&G treated him unfairly here.
But Mr M thinks that D&Gs delays led to the theft of his cooker, so he thinks it should 
replace it. His main concerns are that D&G didnt attend on the appointed day and it failed to 
inspect his cooker. Ive looked at the timeline of events to see whether D&G handled the 
claim in line with the policy and whether there were any avoidable delays.
D&G sent an engineer three days after Mr M made his claim. Its notes show that was the 
agreed date. While Mr M said the appointment shouldve been the day before, I havent seen 
any evidence of that. However, I dont think the difference in one day has a significant effect 
on the overall claim. Thats because, when the engineer attended, testing couldnt be 
completed because the cooker was disconnected and in the garden. The policy states:
Your responsibilities
You must arrange any work required to make your product accessible and compliant with 
all relevant safety standards and safe to work on (as determined by our engineer). We will 
not do any work where these standards
are not met.
So, while the cooker wasnt inspected, I cant fairly hold D&G responsible for all the resulting 
delays because Mr M hadnt met the policy standard for the inspection on the first 
appointment. 
This brings me to the question of whether it was necessary for the cooker to be connected 
for D&G to see that the door was broken. I dont think it was. But given the discrepancy 
between Mr Ms account and that of the engineer, I think it was reasonable for D&G to ask 
for photos. Unfortunately, D&G couldnt see the photos of the cooker and Mr M had to 
resend them several times. I understand Mr M became frustrated with this and D&G agreed 
it hadnt been the best experience. 
I dont think its fair to hold D&G responsible for any system incompatibility which may have 
prevented it from seeing the photos attached or within the body of Mr Ms emails. I note that 
he chased progress every few days throughout his claim, and I can understand that wouldve 
caused him inconvenience. D&G acknowledged this and paid him compensation of £25 by 
way of apology. In the overall circumstances, I think thats a fair amount for the 
inconvenience of making phone calls and sending online update requests.
On receipt of the photos, D&G noted that the cooker door was missing altogether but it also 
said the cooker appeared to be in poor condition. Having seen the photos, I agree. The 
policy says:
your product must be in good working order when this policy starts
Mr M took out the policy just a few months before, so I think it was fair that D&G commented 
on this point when it responded to Mr Ms complaint.
Given the conflicting opinions on the condition of the cooker, D&G offered to arrange another 
engineer visit and Mr M agreed. That same day, Mr M emailed D&G to say his cooker had 
been taken from his front garden. He felt it was D&Gs fault that it had been taken because 
of the delays and he asked it to replace his cooker. 
Ive thought carefully about this point, but I dont think D&G could reasonably have foreseen 
that any delays would result in the cooker being taken from Mr Ms front garden. It was Mr Ms decision to put his cooker in his garden and, while I understand the reasons hes given 
for doing so, I cant fairly hold D&G responsible for the resulting theft.
In summary, Mr Ms cooker was stolen from his garden while his claim was progressing. 
While its fair to say D&G was responsible for some of the delays, I dont think it can 
reasonably be held responsible for the theft. As Mr M no longer had the appliance, D&G 
declined his claim, cancelled the policy, and returned his premiums. It also paid £25 
compensation for the failure to keep him up to date with progress. Im satisfied that D&G 
declined the claim in line with the policy, as explained above, and I see no reason to require 
it to replace Mr Ms cooker.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman