DRN-2951502
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the service provided by Lansdown Financial Ltd when dealing with his 
timeshare property claim.
What happened
Mr R was introduced to Lansdown through a third party (company A). Mr R paid company A 
an upfront fee of £10,950 by cheque. Company A referred Mr R to Lansdown.
In June 2018 Mr R instructed Lansdown to undertake a claim for him in respect of a 
timeshare contract. The terms and conditions explained:
-Our service helps you to obtain Compensation from Resort Owners and/or Creditors
-Assuming we think you have reasonable grounds; we will send letters of claim to the 
Resort Owners and/or Creditor, negotiate with them where appropriate and/or submit 
cases to the Financial Ombudsman service for adjudication/ review of the 
adjudication. 
On 19 August Lansdown wrote to Mr R to say that theyd secured the services of a trusted 
partner law firm in Spain. Mr R was asked to complete and return a questionnaire regarding 
his timeshare property so that Lansdown could start his Spanish court claim.
 
On 12 December 2019 after sending a chaser email asking for an update, Mr R received an 
email from Lansdown saying that theyd passed [Mr Rs] information to the trusted 
Spanish Lawyers for assessment
Mr R sought further clarification on details for the lawyers involved. Lansdown informed Mr R 
We are unable to provide any information about the lawyers at this stage Please note that 
we will not be able to provide you with any information or update until we have received 
viability assessment report from the lawyers. We are reverting to providing you with an 
update every 6 months as per FCA guidelines we are not able to answer any query 
regarding [company A]. 
In February 2020 Mr R received notification from Lansdown that another company (company 
M) were going to take over handling of his claim, and Lansdown would no longer be 
involved. Mr R wrote to Lansdown requesting information as part of a data subject access 
request. Mr R says this has not been responded to. 
On 5 March 2020 Lansdown were no longer regulated to undertake claims management 
business. 
On 5 June Mr R received an email from company M telling him In this matter it would appear 
that [company A] were dealing directly with the resort owners and there is no claim against a 
UK lender that we can pursue on your behalf. As resort only claims are not our area of 
expertise, we cannot assist any further.
Mr R contacted the Claims Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman Service) on 
24 June as he was unhappy with the way Lansdown had handled his claim. Mr R was 
seeking a refund of the £10,950 hed paid to company A, saying that the two companies had 
worked together in committing fraud. 
On 11 August this service requested Lansdowns business file. On 30 November a further 
chaser was sent. 
On 26 July 2021 the investigator shared findings with Mr R and Lansdown using the 
evidence provided by Mr R. The investigator found that we wouldnt be able to ask 
Lansdown to refund the upfront cost Mr R had paid to company A. The investigator also said 
they couldnt find any evidence of Lansdown fulfilling their side of the agreed terms and 
conditions, and so Lansdown should pay Mr R £350 for the trouble and inconvenience hed 
suffered in having to continually contact Lansdown for updates, and for his claim not 
progressing the way he was expecting. 
Lansdown didnt respond to the investigators findings. Mr R said the compensation 
recommended wouldnt be enough to cover the financial loss hed suffered. As the complaint 
couldnt be resolved its been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the evidence I agree with the investigators findings on this complaint. I can 
understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to Mr R but I hope my findings go 
some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive focused my comments on what I 
think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
I have considered the very detailed and emotive account provided by Mr R, about his 
dealings with company A, and how company A is linked to Lansdown. I appreciate this has 
been a very challenging time for Mr R. Mr R has provided evidence of his contract with 
company A, and payment made to company A directly. 
Although I appreciate all that Mr R has explained about the money he has lost through the 
upfront fee that he paid, Im unable to investigate the actions of company A. Company A is a 
separate business entity, subject to different regulations which this service doesnt have the 
power to investigate. 
Ive considered the complaint against Lansdown and their service provided to Mr R as part of 
this final decision. Lansdown havent responded to any information requests sent by this 
service. So Ive considered the evidence provided by Mr R when reaching an outcome I feel 
is fair and reasonable. 
The terms and conditions agreed to by Mr R set out the type of service he could expect from 
Lansdown. This included send letters of claim to the Resort Owners and/or Creditor, 
negotiate with them where appropriate and/or submit cases to the Financial Ombudsman 
service for adjudication/ review of the adjudication. Mr R has provided evidence of several 
chaser emails sent to Lansdown throughout his contract with them, but I havent seen any 
evidence of work completed by Lansdown on the claim. 
The contract says Lansdown would first need to confirm that Mr Rs claim has reasonable 
grounds. I wouldve expected updates to have been provided to Mr R about the work 
completed by Lansdown in determining whether his claim has reasonable grounds. I have seen no evidence of any updates provided to Mr R about his claim in the first 12 months of 
him instructing them. This wouldve left Mr R feeling frustrated and upset.  
Lansdown told Mr R we will not be able to provide you with any information or update until 
we have received viability assessment report from the lawyers. I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr R to have expected some movement on his claim in the last 15 months. 
As the company that had been appointed to deal with Mr Rs compensation claim, I wouldve 
expected Lansdown to have been more proactive in moving Mr Rs claim forward, and 
updating Mr R on the progress of his claim. Ive seen no evidence that any updates were 
provided to Mr R without prompting from Mr R, and the updates that were given, provided 
very little information about what work Lansdown had done on Mr Rs claim.  
Although Lansdown say they were working with lawyers in Spain to progress Mr Rs claim, 
Ive seen no evidence of this. And when prompted for further information about this by Mr R, 
Lansdown didnt explain what communication theyd had, and the result of this. Based on the 
evidence, I think its fair to say that its more likely than not that no work had in fact been 
completed by Lansdown. Especially in the first 12 months where theres no evidence of any 
contact from Lansdown with Mr R. 
I think Lansdowns lack of active involvement in Mr Rs claim, and failure to progress his 
claim in the 19 months that they were regulated to deal with it, left Mr R feeling frustrated 
and upset. Although Lansdown say it was company A that was dealing with legal matters 
associated with Mr Rs claim, I dont think this changed what Lansdown had agreed to do for 
Mr R when he signed a contract with them. 
I havent seen any evidence of Lansdown completing the service they said theyd provide in 
the contract. Because of this, I think its fair that Lansdown pay compensation to Mr R in 
recognition of the impact on him, caused by their poor handling of his claim. 
  
Putting things right
While Lansdown are no longer a regulated CMC, they were regulated throughout the period 
of time that Mr R is complaining about. So its for this reason Im able to consider their 
actions, or lack of actions, and direct them to do something to remedy this.
The investigator recommended a payment of £350 to recognise the trouble and frustrations 
caused to Mr R. I think this compensation is fair and in line with what I would direct in similar 
circumstances. So, I direct Lansdown to pay Mr R £350. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Lansdown Financial Ltd must pay Mr R £350 to recognise the trouble and frustrations 
caused to Mr R following their poor handling of his timeshare property claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Neeta Karelia
Ombudsman