DRN-4003417
The complaint
Ms B complains about the advice given by PSP Wealth Management Ltd (PSP) to transfer 
the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a personal 
pension arrangement. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
What happened
Ms B met with PSP in May 2014 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. Ms B says 
she was introduced to them following a cold call from another business. 
PSP completed a fact-find to gather information about Ms Bs circumstances and objectives. 
In summary this recorded that Ms B was single; aged 55; unemployed and in receipt of 
jobseekers allowance; she had a monthly income deficit of around £230 a month; she had 
unsecured debts of around £7,000; and her objective was to access a lump sum to go on 
holiday, repay her debts, supplement her income while she was seeking new employment 
and provide an emergency fund. PSP also carried out an assessment of Ms Bs attitude to 
risk, which it deemed to be high medium.
On 18 June 2014, PSP advised Ms B to transfer her pension benefits into a personal 
pension arrangement and invest the proceeds with a discretionary fund manager. The 
suitability report said the reasons for the recommendation were to provide the
maximum tax-free cash payment to meet Ms Bs objectives, to maintain income flexibility for 
the future as well as offering more options on death.
Ms B duly accepted the recommendation and the transfer completed  Ms B received 
around £19,000 tax-free cash and the residual funds were invested as PSP recommended.
I understand that shortly after the transfer Ms B suffered ill heath, which prevented her from 
returning to work. And according to her representative, she withdrew funds from her 
personal pension to supplement her income and by 2018 shed withdrawn the entire fund 
value and the plan was closed.
In 2021 Ms B complained to PSP, through a representative, about the suitability of the 
transfer advice. In summary she said that there was no health reason to transfer in 2014; her 
financial circumstances did not justify a transfer; she ought to have been categorised as low 
risk; and while her desire for a cash lump sum at the time was genuine, this was caused by 
her temporary unemployment so she shouldve been advised to seek debt counselling 
advice instead.
PSP didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. In summary it said that advice was carried out to 
establish how best Ms B could access her lump sum to support her financial situation. It said 
Ms B was in debt, she was struggling to repay these debts and she needed further support 
with her monthly income. It said there was no option for her to access her benefits from the 
DB scheme early and the analysis showed that a transfer was seen as the only available 
solution to her at that time. It said whilst it recognised the regulators starting position is not 
to transfer, there are circumstances where a transfer is deemed appropriate and this was 
clearly evident in Ms Bs case.
Dissatisfied with its response, Ms B referred her complaint to our service, through her 
representative. An investigator considered things and upheld the complaint and told PSP to 
pay compensation. In summary they said the transfer wasnt financially viable because of the 
growth rate required to match Ms Bs DB scheme benefits at her schemes normal retirement 
age. And they said there wasnt a compelling reason to justify the transfer  they said 
although Ms B was unemployed at the time, her pension was there to provide her with an 
income in retirement and not supplement her income beforehand. They said they believed 
Ms B had other options available to her to help clear her debts, including speaking with her 
creditors. They said had suitable advice been given, Ms B wouldve remained in her DB 
scheme.
PSP disagreed. It said it didnt believe it was the right thing to do to force Ms B into a debt 
management plan when she had other assets she could use. It said Ms B didnt have the 
option of taking early retirement from her DB scheme and so it didnt understand the 
investigators rationale for not accessing her pension when Ms B had a negative disposable 
income. It said Ms B has accessed the fund flexibly to support her needs, which wasnt 
available via her existing scheme.
Because the investigator wasnt persuaded to change their mind, the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of PSP's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. My reasons are set out 
below.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6G that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, PSP should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Ms Bs 
best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was in her 
best interests.
Financial viability 
PSP carried out analysis, as required by the regulator, to determine the level of investment 
growth (the critical yield) required to match Ms Bs DB scheme benefits if she transferred to 
a personal pension arrangement. This showed that the critical yield required to match Ms Bs 
scheme benefits at age 60 was 14.78% assuming she took a lump sum and a reduced 
pension.
Im mindful that PSP didnt express an opinion on the likelihood of Ms B achieving this rate of 
return taking into account her assessed high medium attitude to investment risk and the 
term to retirement. But PSPs advice and recommendation in this case was not based on 
Ms B retiring at age 60 and investing all of her pension monies in the meantime in the belief 
that shed be better off by transferring  its advice was based on addressing Ms Bs 
immediate objective and giving her access to a cash lump sum and possibly income at age 
55. 
So while I have concerns about PSPs assessment of Ms Bs attitude to investment risk, 
which in my view could not reasonably be described as high medium given her investment 
inexperience, her age and her low capacity for loss, I dont think it is necessary in this case 
for me to consider in detail the financial viability of the transfer - albeit in my view its 
immediately apparent from the required rate of return that it wasnt. What I need to consider 
in this case are the other reasons, which PSP believes mean the transfer was nevertheless 
suitable.
Income need and access to tax-free cash
The advice paperwork records that Ms B was unemployed but was seeking new employment 
and she was currently in receipt of jobseekers allowance  an amount of around £313 a 
month. Ms Bs outgoings were recorded as being around £550 a month, meaning that Ms B 
had an income deficit of around £236 a month. It was also recorded that Ms B had no cash 
or investment-based assets and she had debts of around £7,000. Ms Bs objective was 
noted as wanting access to a lump sum to go on holiday, repay some debts, supplement her 
immediate income need while she was seeking employment and create an emergency cash 
fund. 
While in my view Ms Bs desire for a lump sum for a holiday could not reasonably be 
considered necessary in the circumstances, or in and of itself a compelling reason to access 
her tax-free cash earlier than her schemes normal retirement age, on the one-hand I accept 
it could be argued that Ms B needed access to funds to improve her financial position. And 
given her pension was her only available asset, a need to access her tax-free cash earlier 
than her schemes normal retirement age.
But on the other hand, Im not persuaded that PSP did enough to demonstrate that it fully 
understood Ms Bs overall circumstances or that it was in her best interests to transfer her 
pension. It strikes me that the advisers assessment of Ms Bs lump sum need was simply based on her accessing the maximum tax-free cash based on the transfer value. 
I say this because, firstly, while PSP recorded that Ms B was unemployed, theres no 
evidence that it asked her how long shed been out of work, what she considered her 
prospects for new employment were and what income she was likely to earn, in an attempt 
to fully understand her financial position and how long her situation might last. Without this 
information I dont think the adviser was in a position to establish how much money, if 
anything, Ms B needed. Ms B said that she was seeking employment again - so its entirely 
possible that her financial predicament had only just been created and that the position was 
only short-term and would immediately improve once she started earning again. In which 
case, while repaying the debt might have seemed like a good idea, it might not have been 
necessary immediately if Ms B was likely to soon be in a position to service that debt again 
from her income. 
Secondly, PSPs recording of Ms Bs income and expenditure in the fact-find cannot 
reasonably be described as comprehensive  in my view it was basic. Only a total figure for 
Ms Bs monthly expenditure is recorded. Its unclear whether Ms B declined to provide more 
detail here or whether PSP didnt ask her. But either way it meant that PSP did not fully 
understand what Ms Bs outgoing were and importantly what her debt repayments were  it 
didnt know how much of her recorded income deficit was as a result of her debt 
repayments. PSP didnt collate any more information about what Ms Bs £7,000 debt 
comprised of either  so I think PSP shouldve better understood the details of Ms Bs debts 
and her income and expenditure before it went ahead and made its recommendation that 
she transfer out of her DB scheme to raise funds to repay her debts.
Thirdly and crucially in my view, assuming Ms Bs debts were the cause of her income deficit 
(or a significant contributory factor) then I think PSP ought reasonably to have recommended 
that Ms B explore all of the alternatives available to her, in the first instance, before 
recommending she transfer her DB pension scheme. And in my view this shouldve included 
a recommendation that Ms B speak directly with her creditors, who shouldve treated her 
positively and sympathetically; and/or that she should seek debt counselling advice from a 
debt charity or similar organisation; and/or that she should consider the possibility of entering 
a debt management plan. But Ive not seen any evidence that PSP considered this or 
discussed it with Ms B as an alternative to transferring her DB pension benefits in an attempt 
to improve her position. In my view, transferring out of the DB pension scheme ought to have 
been the last resort and shouldve only been considered once all the viable alternatives to 
manage and/or resolve Ms Bs financial predicament had been explored and exhausted.
I can see that PSP says Ms B shouldnt have been forced into a debt management plan 
when she had other assets available. But form what I can see, because Ms B didnt own her 
own home or have any investment or savings, the only asset available to her was her DB 
scheme pension. Ms Bs DB scheme was her only source of private pension provision. And 
with no information gathered about Ms Bs state pension entitlement, this was likely to form a 
not insignificant part of her overall future retirement income. So Im not persuaded a debt 
management plan shouldve been ruled out purely on the basis of Ms B having a DB pension 
available to her.
Im also mindful that Ms Bs situation may well have meant she qualified for state benefits  
for example Ms B rented from a housing association and she might have been entitled to 
housing benefit. But because this benefit is means tested, its likely that by releasing capital 
and/or income from her pension, this wouldve impacted the amount Ms B was entitled to. 
I think PSP ought to have considered this - but Ive not seen any evidence that it did.Overall Im not persuaded that, based on the available evidence, PSP acted in Ms Bs best 
interests. In my view PSP failed to properly understand Ms Bs overall financial position.
By not completing a detailed income and expenditure analysis or gathering more details 
about her debts, I dont think it could understand the extent to which Ms Bs debt repayments 
were the cause of her income deficit versus her other outgoings. 
PSP didnt consider Ms Bs entitlement to benefits as part of its advice and it didnt 
recommend that she first explore the other avenues that were available to her to help with 
her financial situation when I think in the circumstances it shouldve done. For these reasons 
I dont think it was suitable to recommended that Ms B make an irreversible decision to 
transfer her guaranteed DB pension scheme benefits to a personal pension arrangement to 
help achieve things when this should have been a last resort.
Summary
I dont doubt that the flexibility and immediate availability of tax-free cash on offer through a 
personal pension arrangement would have sounded attractive to Ms B at the time. But PSP 
wasnt there to just transact what Ms B might have thought she wanted or needed. The 
advisers role was to really understand what Ms B needed and recommend what was in her 
best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Ms B was suitable. She was giving up a
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income to resolve a financial situation that not only did 
PSP not fully grasp, but that in my view with better advice and consideration could likely 
have been improved and/or resolved by the viable alternatives that were available to her 
such as seeking debt advice. And this wouldve been far preferable to Ms B giving up her 
only guaranteed private source of retirement income. By transferring and following PSPs 
advice, Ms B was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were 
no compelling reasons which would justify a transfer and outweigh this.
So, I think PSP shouldve advised Ms B to remain in her DB scheme. 
Of course I now need to consider whether Ms B wouldve gone ahead anyway, against PSPs 
advice.
Having done so, I dont think Ms B wouldve insisted on transferring out of her DB scheme
and gone head in any event. I say this because Ms B was not in my view an experienced
investor, despite PSPs assessment of her attitude to risk, which might suggest otherwise. In 
my view she was a low or cautious risk investor who neither possessed the requisite, 
knowledge, skill nor confidence to go against the advice she given, particularly in complex 
pension matters. 
So I think Ms B relied solely on the advice she was given. At the time this pension was the 
primary source of Ms Bs guaranteed future retirement provision. So, if PSP had provided 
her with clear advice against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt 
suitable for her, and if it had explained that she should seek proper debt advice in the first 
instance and that only as a last resort should she consider risking her guaranteed pension to 
achieve things, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. I think Ms B wouldve 
accepted that advice.
In light of the above, I think PSP should compensate Ms B for the unsuitable advice, using
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology.Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Ms B whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Ms B didnt make a choice, so as set out previously Ive assumed in this case she doesnt 
want to wait for the new guidance to come into effect. 
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Ms B. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Ms B, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for PSPs unsuitable advice. I consider Ms B would 
have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
PSP must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, if things had happened as they should have and if suitable advice had been 
given, Ms B wouldve most likely remained in her DB scheme. Because shortly after the 
transfer completed Ms B suffered ill health, I think its more likely than not that at this point 
Ms B wouldve requested taking her benefits early on the grounds of ill health and this 
wouldve likely been granted by the scheme trustees. So, compensation should be based on 
a retirement age of 55.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Ms Bs acceptance of the decision.
PSP may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Ms Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Ms Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Ms Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Ms B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Ms B within 90 days of the date PSP receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes PSP to pay Ms B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect PSP to carry out a calculation in line with the updated 
rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require PSP Wealth 
Management Ltd to pay Ms B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
PSP Wealth Management Ltd to pay Ms B any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require PSP 
Wealth Management Ltd to pay Ms B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
PSP Wealth Management Ltd pays Ms B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Ms B.
If Ms B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on PSP Wealth 
Management Ltd.My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Ms B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Ms B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman