Page 1 of 6The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans agreed to 
several loans. He said they should have checked his financial situation as he said hes 
struggled to repay them.
What happened
Mr C said Everyday had acted irresponsibly in continually lending to him. And that they 
should have checked whether he could maintain his commitments.
Mr Cs loans were taken out over several years:
Loan 
One
May-09Loan 
Two
Nov-09Loan Three
Aug-10Loan 
Four
Aug-11Loan 
Five
Aug-12Loan Six
Jan-14
Purpose Holiday ChristmasPay off mothers 
loan Car HolidayCar 
Repairs
Loan £1,187 £2,687 £4,200.96 £5,694.56 £5,946.36 £6,772.51
Repayment £162.10 £197.39 £220.64 £283.16 £281.47 £298.16
Period13 
months24 
months 36 months40 
months34 
months38 
months
For each of the loans Mr C said he was living with his parents, and that he didnt pay any 
rent or board to them. He also said hed been employed since 2004 with the same employer. 
And explained the purpose of each loan. 
Mr C said Everyday shouldnt have approved the loans as he couldnt afford them when all 
of his circumstances were taken into consideration. Mr C said he was reliant at times on 
payday loans and was using credit to pay his credit commitments. And he had rent and other 
household expenses that Everyday didnt consider. He complained to Everyday as he didnt 
think theyd done enough to establish his true situation. Mr C said he couldnt afford the loan 
repayments, and Everyday had acted irresponsibly in lending to him.
Everyday initially said Mr C had brought his complaint too late for us to consider. But 
accepted that Mr C had brought his complaint within three years of his being aware he had 
cause to complain. Everyday said theyd carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
that showed each of the loans were affordable. Mr C wasnt happy with their response and 
referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Everyday had checked  Mr Cs bank statements and used industry 
standard checks for details to calculate his income and expenditure at the time of each 
application. She agreed that for Loan One and Two, the checks done by Everyday were 
DRN-3027147Page 2 of 6proportionate and that the loans were affordable for Mr C. She didnt think Everyday had 
acted irresponsibly in lending to him. But for Loans Three, Four, Five and Six she said that 
the level of indebtedness and changes to Mr Cs income should have raised concerns with 
Everyday. She said Everyday had acted irresponsibly in lending to Mr C. And to put things 
right she asked Everyday to:
To add up the total amount of money Mr C received as a result of having been 
given loans Three to Six. The repayments Mr C made should be deducted from this 
amount.
a) If this results in Mr C having paid more than they received, any 
overpayments should be refunded along with 8% simple interest
(calculated from the date the overpayments were made until the date of 
settlement).
b) If any capital balance remains outstanding, then Everyday Loans should 
attempt to arrange an affordable and suitable payment plan with Mr C.
To remove any negative information recorded on Mr Cs credit file relating to  loans 
Three to Six. 
Everyday didnt agree, they said the disposable income calculated by our investigator wasnt 
correct as theyd already taken Mr Cs commitments into account, this meant his disposable 
income was higher than shed said. So, they didnt agree theyd acted irresponsibly in 
lending loans Three to Six to Mr C. Everyday asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Our investigator found that Loan One and Two was affordable for Mr C and Everyday hadnt 
acted irresponsibly in lending to them. And this has been accepted by Mr C and Everyday.  I 
wont comment further on these but will consider Loans Three, Four, Five and Six.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did Everyday complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr
C would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did Everyday make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr C
could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Everyday act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Regulations in place at the time Everyday lent to Mr C required them to carry out a
reasonable assessment of whether he could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordabilityPage 3 of 6check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning Everyday need to think
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse
consequences for Mr C. In other words, it wasnt enough for Everyday to think only about
the likelihood that they would get their money back without considering the impact of
repayment on Mr C himself.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty. Consideration should also be given to 
the amount, type and cost of credit being applied for.
So, Ive considered whether Everyday in lending to Mr C had been thorough in the checks
they made. And whether theyve taken all these factors into account in deciding to lend to
him.
Loan Three
The loan was taken out in August 2010, for £4,200.26 payable over 36 months at £220.64 
per month. Part of the loan was used to settle Mr Cs previous loan (Loan Two - £2,024.26), 
with £2,000 transferred to Mr C, who said it was to settle an outstanding loan for his mother.
I can see from Everydays records that they calculated Mr Cs income to be £1,484. They 
calculated his credit commitments to be £458.61 which consisted of Mr Cs child support 
payments of £204.93, £56.29 for another loan and his repayment of Loan Two, £197.39. 
Everyday estimated any other outgoings using a percentage of his salary, they calculated 
this to be £519.40. After the adjustment for the increased monthly repayment for Loan Three 
(a difference of 23.25) meant Mr C had a disposable income of £484.74. 
Based on their affordability assessment Everyday deemed the loan was affordable. As I 
mentioned above when considering a loan its not simply about the consumers ability to 
repay but also what impact the lending would have. So, Ive looked to see if there were any 
factors that Everyday should have considered. Mr C said that he had rent and household 
commitments that Everyday hadnt considered, and he was reliant on payday loans.
Ive looked at the application data, and information Everyday would have seen, including Mr 
Cs bank statement. And their calculations appear to be reasonable and in line with this 
information. Theres no record of any rent being paid. I can understand Everyday not 
including an amount for rent as Mr C says hes living with his parents. I cant say that 
Everyday did anything wrong by not taking into consideration something they were unaware 
of.  And theyd estimated a percentage of Mr Cs income - £519.40 for any expenditure. But I 
can see there is a note made against Mr Cs bank statement in August 2010 for an amount 
of £450, that says paid off payday loan.  I can also see apart from the £450 withdrawal, 
there were weekly cash withdrawals of £291.95 and one of £405. As these amounts 
exceeded Mr Cs weekly income, I question why this wasnt checked into by Everyday.
Everyday said theyd checked Mr Cs credit history, but this evidence hasnt been sent to us. 
And a current credit history check would only show Mr Cs position from 2015 to date. So, I 
cant say what Everyday would have seen. And payday loans wouldnt have registered on Mr 
Cs file at this time. But as the purpose of the loan was to pay off his mothers debt, Mr Cs 
own indebtedness had increased, a concern when I can see evidence, he was using payday 
loans. Page 4 of 6The statement shows Mr C was using at least one other payday providers to supplement
his income, as I can see he was also repaying a loan at this time to a pawnbrokers. So I 
think this shows his financial status was likely deteriorating at that stage. And as such I dont 
agree that further lending, given the loan was to repay someones else debt, was likely to be 
sustainable for Mr C at this time. And so, on this basis Im satisfied Everyday Loans decision 
to lend was unfair.
Loan Four
The loan was taken out in August 2011, for £5,694.56 payable over 40 months at £283.16 
per month. Part of the loan was used to settle Mr Cs previous loan (Loan Three - 
£3,589.06), and again £2,000 was transferred to Mr C. He said the purpose of the loan was 
to purchase a car. Over the life of the loan Mr Cs indebtedness was now £7,753.78.
I can see from Everydays records that they calculated Mr Cs income to be £1,286, a 
reduction of around £200. They calculated his credit commitments to be £419.64 which 
consisted of Mr Cs child support payments of £185, £14 for another loan (pawnbrokers) and 
his repayment of Loan Three, £220.64. Everyday estimated any other outgoings using a 
percentage of his salary and applied their minimum allowance which was £500. After the 
adjustment for the increased monthly repayment for Loan Four (a difference of £62.52) 
meant Mr C had a disposable income of £303.84. 
The purpose of Mr Cs loan was for a car which would have increased his expenditure. I 
know Everyday has said this would have been covered in their estimated calculation of 
£500. But given Mr Cs income had reduced by nearly £200, he was still paying the loan to 
the pawnbroker. And his outgoings per month would have increased I think further checks 
should have been done to determine Mr Cs true financial situation rather than a reliance on 
generalised data.
Loan Five 
The loan was taken out in August 2012, for £5,496.36 payable over 34 months at £281.47 
per month. Part of the loan was used to settle Mr Cs previous loan (Loan Four - £5,235.36), 
with only £500 transferred to Mr C. He said the purpose of the loan was for a holiday. I can 
see Mr Cs indebtedness for the life of the loan was now £11,101.56. So, by obtaining a 
further £500, Mr Cs indebtedness had increased by over £3,300 from the previous loan. And 
given Mr C appeared to have sufficient disposable income each month, I question why hed 
take out a further loan which only saw him receive £500. 
I think Everyday Loans ought reasonably to have recognised the risk that taking further, 
costly lending was unlikely to help Mr C and more likely to potentially increase his 
indebtedness over the longer term.
I can see from Everydays records that they calculated Mr Cs income to be £1,288. And his 
credit commitments to be £436.12 which consisted of Mr Cs child support payments of 
£138.98, £14 for another loan (pawnbrokers) and his repayment of Loan Four, £283.16. 
Everyday estimated any other outgoings using a percentage of his salary and applied their 
minimum allowance which was £500. After the adjustment for the decrease in monthly 
repayment for Loan Five (reduced by a difference of £1.69) meant Mr C had a disposable 
income of £353.57. As with Loan Four I think there was a reliance on generalised data rather 
than establishing Mr Cs true financial position.Page 5 of 6Loan Six
The loan was taken out in January 2014, for £6772.51 payable over 38 months at £298.16 
per month. Part of the loan was used to settle Mr Cs previous loan (Loan Five - £3,412.51), 
with £3,000 transferred to Mr C. He said the purpose of the loan was for car repairs.  
I can see from Everydays records that they calculated Mr Cs income to be £1,195.57, a 
further reduction in income. And his credit commitments to be £281.47, I cant see any 
allowance made for Mr Cs child support payments, or a check as to whether these had now 
ceased. Mr Cs commitments were calculated to now only consist of his repayment of Loan 
Five  £281.47. Everyday estimated any other outgoings using a percentage of his salary and 
applied their minimum allowance which was £500. After the adjustment for the increased 
monthly repayment for Loan Six (a difference of £16.69) meant Mr C had a disposable 
income of £397.41. As with Loan Five I think there was a reliance on generalised data rather 
than establishing Mr Cs true financial position.
Due to the passage of time there is a lack of evidence for Mr Cs financial situation at the 
time (credit file) as its no longer available. But from what Ive seen I think Everyday Loans 
was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably make his loan repayments  not 
just whether the loan payments looked affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
So, I agree with our investigator that Everyday lending acted irresponsibly in lending Loans 
Three, Four, Five and Six to Mr C.
 
Putting things right
Putting things right when it comes to complaints about irresponsible lending isnt 
straightforward as Mr C has had the loans in question and hes used the funds. 
So I ask Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to:
remove any interest and charges applied to Mr Cs loan account for Loan Three, 
Loan Four, Loan Five and Loan Six from when they were opened;
treat any payments that Mr C made against these loans as a reduction of the 
principle amount, if this results in Mr C having paid more than what he was initially 
lent, then any extra should be treated as an overpayment and refunded to Mr C plus 
8% simple interest on this amount from date of payment to date of settlement; and
remove any adverse information on Mr Cs credit file in relation to these loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to 
take off tax from this interest. Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans must 
give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.Page 6 of 6My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Everyday Lending Limited trading as Everyday Loans to put 
things right as outlined above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2021.
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman