DRN-4065773
The complaint
Mrs N complains that Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited (Mulsanne) unfairly cancelled 
her car insurance policy.
Mulsanne are the underwriters of Mrs Ns policy, so its Mrs Ns insurer. But part of this 
complaint concerns the actions of the broker who administered Mrs Ns policy. As Mulsanne 
has accepted its accountable for the actions of the broker, in my decision, any reference to 
Mulsanne includes the actions of the broker.
What happened
Mrs N took out a car insurance policy with Mulsanne online through a broker. Shortly 
afterwards, Mulsanne contacted Mrs N to say it wanted (among other things) proof of her 
address. It said this should be a utility bill or council tax statement dated within 30 days of its 
request. Mulsanne advised Mrs N that failure to provide this information within seven days 
would lead to her policy being cancelled.
As proof of her address, Mrs N sent in a copy of her mobile phone bill. Mrs N was then 
asked to send in a clearer copy of the bill within seven days. Mrs N did this and got 
confirmation it had been uploaded to her policy. A week or so later, the broker e-mailed    
Mrs N to say Mulsanne had cancelled her policy because she hadnt given it acceptable 
proof of her address. And it also said that, because there was a pending claim on her policy 
she would be receiving a refund.
Mrs N complained to Mulsanne about the policy cancellation and also about not getting the 
promised refund of her policy premium. Mulsanne partially upheld Mrs Ns complaint and 
apologised for failing to inform her that her proof of address was unacceptable. But 
Mulsanne also said the statement in its email about Mrs N getting a refund was incorrect and 
that, because thered been a claim on the policy, she wasnt due one.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs N brought her complaint to us. The investigator who looked 
at it upheld it. She recommended Mulsanne pay Mrs N £100 in compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience its failure to notify her that her proof of address was unacceptable had 
caused her. And our investigator said Mulsanne should also remove any reference to the 
policy cancellation from any external databases. But, because thered been a claim on the 
policy, our investigator didnt think Mrs N was entitled to a refund of her premium.
Mulsanne has accepted our investigators recommendations. Mrs N hasnt. She doesnt think 
the compensation our investigator recommended is adequate. And she also says that the 
cancellation stopped her from being able to continue the policy by changing the car insured 
on it.
Our investigator responded to Mrs N saying this didnt change her view of Mrs Ns complaint 
because she couldnt say with certainty that Mrs N wouldve been able to change the car on 
her policy successfully had Mulsanne not cancelled it. 
Mrs N has asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint since she doesnt think 
Mulsanne has treated her fairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ns complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Looking first at the circumstances that led to Mulsanne cancelling Mrs Ns policy, it had 
asked Mrs N for proof of her address and said this should be a utility bill or council tax 
statement. Instead, Mrs N sent in a copy of her mobile phone bill. I can see why Mrs N did 
this  it had her address on it  but it was neither a utility bill nor a council tax statement, so it 
wasnt what Mulsanne had asked for.
But Mulsanne failed to tell Mrs N this. Instead, it asked her for a clearer copy of the bill and  
when Mrs N sent this in  told her it had been added to her policy. It then cancelled Mrs Ns 
policy without much notice. Mrs N says this was very stressful and has had a big effect on 
her mental health. Im not surprised Mrs N found this experience distressing. In these 
circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable to direct Mulsanne to pay Mrs N £100 for the 
distress its failings caused her.
Turning next to the issue of the premium refund, its unfortunate Mulsanne told Mrs N shed 
get a one. Because thered been a claim on Mrs Ns policy, I think its fair and reasonable of 
Mulsanne to keep her policy premium. I say this because Mrs N has effectively used  or 
had the benefit of  the policy. So I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint on this point.
Turning finally to the issue of the cancellation meaning Mrs N couldnt carry on with the 
policy by replacing the car on cover, I can see there is a hypothetical lost opportunity for   
Mrs N here. But Ive seen no evidence Mrs N gave Mulsanne the details of any new car she 
wanted to put on the policy. And any change wouldve been subject to Mulsannes 
underwriting criteria  which may or may not have resulted in it giving Mrs N a quote to 
continue the cover and which, in turn, may not have been accepted by Mrs N. I think in 
theory Mrs N lost the opportunity to carry on with the policy by changing the car on cover, 
but the evidence I have doesnt persuade me she actually lost out. So Mrs Ns argument on 
this point doesnt change my conclusions on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ns complaint and direct Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Pay Mrs N £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its cancellation 
of her car insurance policy caused her.
Remove any references to the policy cancellation from all internal and external 
databases.
Mulsanne Insurance Company Limited should pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date we tell it Mrs N has accepted my final decision. If it doesnt, Mulsanne Insurance 
Company Limited must pay simple interest on this amount at the rate of 8% a year from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Jane Gallacher
Ombudsman