DRN-3767350
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank (Danske) mistakenly 
sent out a letter containing her details and those of her child to an unrelated third party. She 
brings this complaint saying personal information Danske held about them was wrongly 
shared. 
What happened
Mrs M held an account with Danske and wanted to open a current account for her child. Due 
to the way that these accounts are set up, correspondence was sent to Mrs M in relation to 
the account during this process. 
On 24 September 2021, Danske printed a letter to Mrs M. The bank says that it was later 
contacted by another person to tell it that they had received this letter. It says that it must 
have been mistakenly placed in the same envelope as another letter. The bank says that this 
other person agreed to destroy the wrongly-sent letter at this point.
Mrs M is extremely concerned by this. She says that the letter included information which 
makes clear that her child is a minor and gives out both her bank and address details. She 
believes that the account agreement itself, as well as the letter, was sent out. She says that 
this has put her child in unacceptable danger by revealing their address.
The bank says that the letter and enclosures are produced separately and manually collated 
for postage. It says that only the letter would have been mistakenly sent out under an 
unrelated letter in these circumstances. It also says that only the letter was described by the 
other person as having been received, and that the person confirmed it had been destroyed. 
Danske agreed that it had got things wrong, apologised, and paid £100 into the childs 
account to reflect this. Danske says that it has addressed the matter with its staff and 
reported the issue internally as a data breach.
Our investigator thought that Danske had made a mistake in sending out the letter to the 
wrong person, but that it had already done enough to put things right. 
Mrs M did not agree and so this has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are broadly agreed between the parties. They agree, and I am satisfied, that 
sending out information to the wrong person was a mistake which needed to be put right. 
The parties disagree about what precisely was sent out in error. I have considered all of the 
evidence and am satisfied that it is likely that only the cover letter was sent. The process 
involves manual collation of documents and I am satisfied that it is unlikely that the cover 
letter and enclosures would be collated in this way and then sent out under another, 
unrelated, letter.
The thrust of Mrs Ms concern about the enclosures is that they make clear that her child is 
young, as they refer to pocket money. Having considered the cover letter dated 24 
September 2021, I am satisfied that any careful reader would infer that an account was likely 
being set up for a child. It is sent to another person, describes the new account holder with 
their first name, says that it is set up in their own name, and hopes that they will bank with 
us for years to come. So I will make my decision on the basis that the letter sent by the bank 
plainly describes the account information of a minor.
The mistake came to light when the person who received the information contacted the 
bank. They agreed to destroy the documents which werent for them. I think that it was 
reasonable for the bank to rely upon this agreement. A person who intended to take any 
inappropriate steps with the information would not likely have contacted the bank in the first 
place. I do not think that the bank needed to do anything more to ensure that the documents 
were retrieved or destroyed. Following the same reasoning, I do not think that there was any 
reason to believe that the mistake put Mrs Ms child in any danger. While the document 
referred to the account of a minor, I dont think that this meant that any further steps were 
required in these circumstances.
I have considered the steps taken by Danske following the mistake. The matter was 
addressed internally with the relevant staff to avoid repetition and it was logged as a data 
breach. I think that these steps were reasonable and sufficient in the circumstances. The 
nature of the mistake was manual human error, and these steps were a proportionate 
response to this.
Danske has apologised to Mrs M and paid £100 into her childs account. I am satisfied that 
this properly reflects its mistake and the distress and inconvenience which was caused. I 
have considered whether a separate payment ought to be made to Mrs M in order to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience caused to her, but consider that the apology properly reflects 
this.
I can certainly understand why Mrs M was upset by Dankses mistake. But I am satisfied that 
it has already taken the steps which I would require it to take in order to put things right, 
including providing details of the Information Commissioners Office who deal with data 
breaches in relation to personal information.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2023.
 
Marc Kelly
Ombudsman