DRN-3655743
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as H has complained that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined 
its loss of rental income claim. 
H has complained to us through a representative but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
actions and comments as being those of H. 
What happened
H held a Property Investors Protection Plan policy with AXA. H claimed on its policy after it 
was impacted by Covid-19 and the Governments response to the pandemic. In particular, H 
thought its claim should be covered under the part of the policy which covered closure due to 
defects in sanitary arrangements. 
AXA turned down Hs claim as they said there wasnt cover for the circumstances of the 
claim under the policy. They said the definition of sanitary related to hygiene and health, 
specifically the removal of sewage and access to clean water. AXA said as there werent any 
defects in Hs sanitation system, this part of the policy didnt provide cover. 
Unhappy with AXAs response, H brought its complaint to our service. It said the words 
sanitary arrangements werent defined in the policy and thought the interpretation of it 
should be wide enough to cover its claim. H said the requirement for businesses to close 
was to slow the spread of Covid-19 and the guidance upon reopening such as ventilation, 
sanitation and social distancing were to maintain public health and appropriate levels of 
hygiene. 
Our investigator looked into Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
H provided a detailed response and asked for an ombudsmans decision. It said that as AXA 
dont dispute that Hs premises were closed by a public authority, by AXAs own definition of 
sanitary arrangements as relating to health and hygiene, the policy must respond. H said 
that the guidelines which were introduced for businesses reopening suggests that 
arrangements before the pandemic were deficient and that as the term sanitary 
arrangements isnt defined in the policy any ambiguity should be considered in Hs favour. H 
clarified that it thinks that the defect in its sanitary arrangements was a deficiency in the 
standard level of hygiene and other arrangements for the protection of health and prevention 
of disease. H added that as there isnt a general closure exclusion, one cant be implied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Hs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
H has made a number of detailed points. While Id like to reassure H that Ive considered all 
of its points, Im not going to address them all in this decision and will instead focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues to this complaint. 
Our investigator explained why she didnt think that a number of different parts of the policy 
would provide cover. As only the extension relating to sanitary arrangements seems to be in 
dispute, Im going to focus my decision on that extension. However, for completeness, I dont 
think the other parts of Hs policy provide cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see
if AXA have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy
when declining Hs claim.
The relevant extension within Hs policy covers business interruption or interference as a 
result of:
the closing of the whole or part of your premises by order of a competent public 
authority as a result of a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at 
your premises
For this to provide cover, the closure of all or part of Hs premises would need to be
following a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at Hs premises. Its not in 
dispute that there wasnt a defect in Hs drains, so Ive gone on to consider whether the 
restrictions placed on Hs premises were as a result of a defect in the sanitary arrangements 
at its premises. 
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, the case of
Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & AXA Insurance
Designated Activity Company [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield). This case took place in the
Irish courts, but in the absence of a comparable English case, I feel it is useful to consider
the points made in terms of considering how an English court might decide this point.
The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Hs policy and considered, 
in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in context similar 
to Hs complaint. The judge said, at paragraph 164: 
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other 
sanitary arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to 
ensure that appropriate social distancing was maintained.
This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered into.
H said that its premises werent closed solely because social distancing couldnt be 
implemented. But I think its reasonable to conclude that restrictions were put in place to 
keep people away from each other to prevent the spread of disease. Therefore, I think its 
fair and reasonable to find that the judges comments on social distancing are relevant to this 
complaint. 
 Hs policy was entered into in January 2020, a number of months before any restrictions 
were introduced in the UK in relation to COVID-19. And, whilst social distancing has been 
practiced throughout history as a means of preventing the spread of disease, until recently, it 
was not in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a reasonable person reading the particular 
wording of Hs policy in January 2020 would have considered this subclause to refer to an 
inability to enforce social distancing at Hs premises to prevent the spread of disease.
In any event, the judge said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves some element of 
deficiency or fault. Ive noted Hs point that it thinks the Government Regulations were put 
into place due to a defect in the standards of hygiene and to prevent disease. But Im not 
persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a 
defect specific to Hs premises which led to its closure. Therefore, I think AXA acted fairly 
and reasonably when concluding that the interruption to Hs business wasnt due to a defect 
in its sanitary arrangements and therefore this clause doesnt cover the circumstances of Hs 
claim.
I recognise this isnt the answer H was hoping for but, having considered things very
carefully, I dont believe that I can fairly require AXA to pay its claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman