DRN-3025981
The complaint
Mr P complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc, trading as Tesco Bank, wont refund to him 
the money that he paid for a holiday voucher. 
What happened
Mr P used his Tesco Bank credit card in August 2012 to pay £196.72 for a holiday voucher 
from a holiday company that had phoned him. He says that he tried to use the voucher to 
book a holiday but couldnt do so and was told that the voucher would expire so he paid 
£197.11 in October 2013, using his Tesco Bank credit card, to extend the voucher.
He says that he again tried to book a holiday but couldnt do so and then became ill so didnt 
take any further action but then found out that the holiday company had stopped trading. He 
claimed a refund of the payments that hed made to the holiday company from Tesco Bank 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 and the chargeback rules. 
It said that it was unable to establish a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the holiday 
company and that there was no documentation or evidence to show that he wasnt able to 
book the holidays as purchased. Mr P wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to 
this service.
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He thought that there 
was a misrepresentation which Mr P relied on when purchasing the holiday voucher and 
extending the validity period. He recommended that Tesco Bank should: refund the 
payments that Mr P made to the holiday company and any charges for currency exchange; 
rework Mr Ps account to make sure that he wasnt charged any interest or charges relating 
to those amounts; and pay him interest.
Tesco Bank has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that 
theres no evidence to show that Mr P has been a victim of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation and the investigators recommendations are based on wider reports about 
the holiday company but a different consumer being a victim of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation doesn't mean that it's likely that Mr P experienced the same. It says that 
all cases should be treated on a case by case basis and the decision should be only be 
based on factual information and theres no documentation to suggest that Mr P couldn't 
have used the vouchers when they were available to him. It says that without a proven 
misrepresentation or breach of contract it should have no liability under section 75.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome recommended by our investigator for these 
reasons:
Mr P used credit provided by Tesco Bank to pay for the holiday voucher and for its 
validity period to be extended and, in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a 
consumer an equal right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the 
provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier;
to able to uphold Mr Ps complaint about Tesco Bank, I must be satisfied that theres 
been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of the voucher and 
that Tesco Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  
but Im not determining the outcome of Mr Ps claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
the supplier has stopped trading and theres only limited evidence available to show 
what was agreed between Mr P and the supplier  in complaints such as this one, 
where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances;
its my understanding that Mr P bought a holiday voucher from the supplier which 
gave him the opportunity to book holiday accommodation but, when he tried to do so, 
he couldnt use the voucher so made a further payment to extend it  but when he 
again tried to use the voucher he was unable to do so;
having considered the available evidence including Mr Ps description of what 
happened and the wider circumstances of his complaint, including media reports 
about the supplier which describe similar situations, I consider it to be more likely 
than not that Mr P was induced into entering into the contract with the supplier by a 
misrepresentation about the holidays for which he would be able to use the voucher 
and that theres been a breach of contract by the supplier because Mr P wasnt able 
to use his voucher and its stopped trading;
I consider that Tesco Banks response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or 
reasonable in these circumstances and I find that it should rework Mr Ps credit card 
account as if he hadnt made the two payments to the supplier, as described in more 
detail below; and
as I consider that Mr Ps complaint about Tesco Banks response to his claim under 
section 75 should be upheld, I havent considered his complaint under the 
chargeback rules.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Tesco Bank to rework 
Mr Ps credit card account as if he hadnt made the two payments to the supplier, as 
described in more detail below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint and I order Tesco Personal Finance plc, 
trading as Tesco Bank, to:
1. Rework Mr Ps credit card account as if the payment of £196.72 hadnt been made in 
August 2012, the payment of £197.11 hadnt been made in October 2013, and there 
werent any currency exchange charges relating to those payments and - if that puts 
the account into credit - to pay interest at an annual rate of 8% simple on the credit 
balance for the periods that the account was in credit - it should also refund the credit 
balance to Mr P.2. If Mr P has repaid any part of those amounts to Tesco Bank but doesnt have a credit 
balance, to pay interest on the amount that he has repaid at an annual rate of 8% 
simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Tesco Bank to deduct tax from the interest payments 
referred to above. Tesco Bank must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman