DRN-2349632
Complaint
Mr M has complained that Advancis Limited (trading as Buddy Loans) irresponsibly 
provided him with an unaffordable guarantor loan. He says that the proper affordability 
checks werent carried out and a credit check, which showed he was already struggling with 
debt, was ignored. 
 
Background
Buddy Loans provided Mr M with a guarantor loan in April 2017. The loan was for £5,000 
and it was due to be repaid with a first instalment of £320.31 followed by 35 monthly 
instalments of around £245. The total amount to be repaid was £8,859.09.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint. He told Buddy Loans that the checks 
it carried out before providing Mr M with this loan werent reasonable and proportionate and 
if such checks had been carried out it would have seen that it Mr M wasnt in a position to 
sustainably make the repayments. So he thought that Buddy Loans shouldnt have provided 
Mr M with this loan and upheld the complaint. 
Buddy Loans disagreed with our investigators assessment and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. So the complaint has now been passed to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Ms complaint.
Having carefully thought about everything, I think that there are two overarching questions
that I need to answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Ms complaint. 
These two overarching questions are:
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that Mr M would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
oIf so, did it make a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would those checks have shown that Mr M wouldve been able to 
do so?
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did Buddy Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way? 
The rules and regulations at the time Buddy Loans lent to Mr M required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay his loan in a 
sustainable manner. Buddy Loans was required to carry out this borrower focused 
assessment in addition to a similar one on the guarantor. This assessment is sometimes 
referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Buddy Loans had to think about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr M. In 
practice this meant that Buddy Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan 
wouldnt cause Mr M undue difficulty or adverse consequences. 
In other words, it wasnt enough for Buddy Loans to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of loan repayments on Mr M. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for Buddy Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr M, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different 
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an 
extended period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were Buddy Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
Buddy Loans has said that it completed an income and expenditure assessment with Mr M. 
During this assessment, Mr M confirmed that he received £1,843 a month. Mr M evidenced 
this by providing a payslip confirming this was the case. Buddy has also said it carried out 
credit check on Mr M. The credit check showed that Mr M had defaulted on a number of credit accounts. Some of 
them were historic but at least three of them were in the calendar year preceding the 
application. And as Mr M confirmed that he wasnt making payments to any of these 
accounts, Buddy Loans allocated payments of £5 a month to these debts.
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
The credit check Buddy Loans carried out and the content of its discussions with Mr M 
indicated that Mr M had significant difficulties with credit in the past and that he wasnt 
making any payments on  number of defaulted accounts. Leaving aside Buddy Loans 
decision to simply attribute a monthly payment of £5 a month, I have to question the wisdom, 
from a creditworthiness point of view, of providing further credit to someone who was very 
open about having no intention of meeting a number of his existing commitments. Although I 
suspect that the existence of a guarantor whod be required to step in, in the event Mr M 
didnt repay this loan, might have led Buddy Loans to believe that it would receive payment 
irrespective of Mr Ms actions.   
But leaving aside my concerns about Buddy Loans decision to proceed from a 
creditworthiness point of view, I think that Buddy Loans ought to have taken steps to verify 
Mr Ms monthly expenditure, given that his declared monthly disposable income wasnt 
reflected in the information provided on the credit check Buddy Loans carried out. In my 
view, the apparent mismatch between what was shown on Mr Ms credit file and his declared 
disposable income suggested further investigation was needed into Mr Ms expenditure  
especially in light of the fact that the payslip Mr M provided also revealed that he was subject 
to an attachment of earnings order for non-payment of council tax. 
I say this while especially mindful of the fact that the rules themselves provide guidance on 
the proportionality of affordability/creditworthiness assessments. The rules and guidance 
suggest that the risk of any credit not being sustainable directly relates to the amount of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial situation. 
As Ive said, Buddy Loans might have been prepared to accept this increased credit risk 
because the existence of Mr Ms guarantor might have given it more confidence that the 
payments would be made. But I dont think that the existence of the guarantor, on its own, 
meant that Mr M himself would be able to sustainably make the payments given what the 
credit file showed.
Indeed I also think that it might also be helpful for me to explain that a less detailed 
affordability assessment, without the need for verification, is only really likely to be fair, 
reasonable and proportionate in circumstances where the amount to be repaid is relatively 
small, the consumers financial situation is stable and they will be indebted for a relatively 
short period. 
But, in circumstances  such as here - where a customers finances are showing signs of 
strain and distress, they are expected to maintain payments for a longer period of time and 
there is the potential that a guarantor will be required to step in and make payments, I think 
its far more likely that any affordability assessment would need to be more detailed and 
contain a greater degree of verification, in order for it to be fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. 
In my view, bearing in mind the term of the loan, the cost of the credit, what Buddy Loans 
had seen or ought to have seen in the information gathered and the potential implications for the guarantor, Buddy Loans needed to get a thorough understanding of Mr Ms financial 
position in order to properly assess whether hed be able to sustainably make the loan 
payments he was being asked to commit to. 
So as well as asking Mr M about the details of his income and expenditure, I think that 
Buddy Loans needed to verify what Mr M said about his expenditure, like it did for his 
income. It could have done this by asking for information such as bank statements or copies 
of bills. And when it obtained this information it needed to properly scrutinise it and ensure 
that Mr M did have enough funds to be able to make the payments.
 
As theres no evidence that Buddy Loans did properly scrutinise the information provided, or 
that it asked Mr M to provide documentary evidence to support the expenditure declarations 
made, I find that it didnt complete fair, reasonable and proportionate affordability checks 
before providing Mr M with this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to Buddy Loans that Mr M would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Buddy Loans that Mr M wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan. 
Mr M has provided us with further evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr M has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks Buddy Loans mightve carried out. 
But in the absence of anything else from Buddy Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Ms financial circumstances were more likely than 
not to have been at the time.
As Ive already explained, Buddy Loans was required to establish whether Mr M could 
sustainably make his loan repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the basis that it, in 
any event, had a second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover payments from 
the guarantor. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further 
in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered the information Mr M has provided in light of all of this. 
The information provided shows that the amount Mr M was actually paying out for his 
monthly expenditure wasnt too dissimilar to what hed declared to Buddy Loans. So he 
genuinely wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed on his defaulted accounts. But 
Mr M was having a significant amount deducted from his wages as a result of the attachment 
of earnings order obtained by his local authority for his non-payment of council tax. He told 
Buddy Loans that there were a still a few payments to be made, yet it doesnt appear to have factored these payments into its calculation of Mr Ms monthly disposable income. And when 
these payments are added to Mr Ms other expenditure, its clear that he didnt have enough 
left over to make the repayments to this loan.
Ive also thought about what Buddy Loans has said about our investigators referral to Mr Ms 
defaults. But even though I think that there is an argument for saying someone who openly 
confirms theyre ignoring significant debts on a number of defaulted accounts shouldnt be 
provided with a guarantor loan (bearing in mind the lenders obligations to the guarantor), 
our investigator didnt say that Buddy Loans shouldnt have lent to Mr M because of his 
existing defaults. He said that Buddy Loans shouldnt have lent because the loan payments 
were unaffordable when the council tax payments Buddy Loans hadnt accounted for were 
added to Mr Ms monthly expenditure.
So I dont understand the relevance of Buddy Loans arguments regarding lending to 
someone with a poor credit history but who can afford the payments. But for the sake of 
completeness and even though I should make it clear that I also agree the monthly 
payments here were unaffordable, I will address Buddy Loans points.
Buddy Loans argument, when taken to its logical conclusion, appears to be that the number 
of defaults a prospective borrower has and whether or not they are paying them is irrelevant 
in cases where a borrower has enough to afford its repayments. But it seems to me that 
Buddy Loans is overlooking its responsibility not increase a borrowers indebtedness in a 
way that is unsustainable or otherwise harmful.
In this case, Mr M was very transparent about his failure to make any payments to his 
several defaulted account. And he declared that hes be paying two of his three other 
commitments with funds from this loan. So Mr Ms debts werent reducing and Buddy Loans 
providing Mr M with a further £5,000.00 on these terms was substantially increasing his 
indebtedness in circumstances where the information obtained, from his credit history, 
showed a strong possibility Mr M would either default or borrow further this loan. And, in 
these circumstances, I dont understand how Buddy Loans failed to see that it would be 
increasing Mr Ms indebtedness in a way that was likely to be unsustainable otherwise 
harmful. 
Im not persuaded by Buddy Loans argument that its decision to lend was fair simply 
because another lender may have decided to make a similarly unfair lending decision and 
charged a higher rate of interest for any credit advanced. I say this while also bearing in 
mind the obligations a guarantor loan provider owes to a guarantor when providing a 
guarantor loan.       
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr M would not have been able to make the 
repayments to this loan. Equally I also find that Buddy Loans failed to take account of Mr Ms 
circumstances suggesting that Buddy Loans providing this loan would increase Mr Ms 
indebtedness in a way that was always likely to be unsustainable or otherwise harmful for 
him. 
Did Buddy Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude Buddy Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in 
some other way.  
So I find that Buddy Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr M in some other 
way.  Did Mr M lose out as a result of Buddy Loans unfairly and unreasonably providing him with 
his guarantor loan?
I think that this loan had the effect of unfairly increasing Mr Ms indebtedness. This loan 
wasnt cheap especially when compared to mainstream providers and he ended up paying 
interest and charges on a loan that he shouldnt have been given in the first place. 
So I find that Mr M lost out because Buddy Loans unfairly provided him with this loan.
  
Fair compensation  what Buddy Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr M
Ive carefully thought about what Buddy Loans should do to put things right in this case. 
Having done so, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of        
Mr Ms complaint for Buddy Loans to put things right by:
refunding the interest, fees and charges Mr M paid as a result of his guarantor loan;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr M to the date of settlement;
removing any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Buddy Loans to take off tax from this interest. Buddy 
Loans must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Advancis Limited should pay 
compensation in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman