DRN-3817706
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed his bank account without providing an 
explanation. Hed like to understand their reasons and receive compensation.
What happened
Mr M had a personal account with Lloyds. 
On 22 April 2021 Lloyds issued Mr M with a 65 day notice to close his account.
Mr M complained to Lloyds about the account closure, highlighting he'd previously worked 
for them and wanted to know the reason behind their decision. But Lloyds didn't uphold his 
complaint, overall they thought they'd acted fairly by giving 65 days' notice as per the terms 
and conditions of the account. 
 
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ms complaint. They asked Lloyds their reasons for 
closing Mr Ms account - but Lloyds explained they didn't need to provide them, as they'd 
complied with the 65 day notice period as part of the terms and conditions. 
 
Mr M didn't agree. In summary he said Lloyds had a responsibility to explain their actions in 
choosing to close his account, and demonstrate they've treated him fairly.
I reviewed Mr Ms complaint and came to a different conclusion to our adjudicator. In 
summary I explained for me to assess whether Lloyds complied with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Ms account Id need to be provided with the reasons for their actions, which 
I didnt have. For this reason I wasnt able to conclude Lloyds acted fairly  and I advised 
them to pay Mr M £200 for the inconvenience caused. 
Lloyds didnt agree. They explained they werent under an obligation to disclose the reasons 
for their actions  and theyd complied with the terms and conditions of the account in 
closing it with 65 days notice. 
Mr M was pleased with the change in outcome, but felt Lloyds should be punished more 
severely for their decision to close his account without any reason. 
As neither party agreed with my recommendation Ive proceeded to review my conclusions, 
and issue my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To close a customers account Lloyds need to show theyve applied the terms and conditions 
fairly. Our adjudicator asked Lloyds on two occasions to explain their reasons for closing 
Mr M's account. However, they've explained that as they can close a bank account for any 
reason by giving 65 days' notice they dont need to provide an explanation. 
 
I've considered Lloyds' argument - but I'm afraid I can't agree. Without Lloyds providing an 
explanation for why they decided to close Mr Ms account I haven't seen enough information 
to show me they were complying with their terms and conditions. 
 
It's true that usually when a bank gives 60 or 65 days' notice of closure their reasons will 
often be in line with the terms and conditions of the account. However, because I've not 
seen the reasons for closure I can't conclude Lloyds' actions were fair and reasonable. 
  
Putting things right
I've thought about the impact on Mr M from Lloyds' actions. Mr M was caused inconvenience 
in making a number of phone calls to Lloyds and attending the local branch. Mr M has also 
experienced anxiety, shown by him contacting the local police in an attempt to discover any 
active police investigations or adverse data recorded against him. 
Mr Ms argued that Lloyds should be penalised for closing his account without providing 
reasons or showing they complied with the terms. I understand this will disappoint Mr M but 
my role isnt to punish Lloyds for any mistakes theyve made  the ombudsman service isnt 
the regulator, that responsibility sits with the Financial Conduct Authority. Its my role to 
determine the impact Lloyds errors had on Mr M  and Im satisfied £200 compensation is 
fair redress for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
- Pay Mr M £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman