DRN-3189305
The complaint
Ms H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard irresponsibly increased
the credit limit on her account to unaffordable levels.
What happened
Ms H says Barclaycard increased the credit limit on her credit card account to unaffordable
levels in 2016 and 2017. She says the increases were irresponsible without proper checks 
being carried out. Ms H would like the interest and charges refunded, with 8% interest paid 
on top of any refund.
Barclaycard had carried out a review of customers accounts and identified Ms Hs
account as one where it may have set the credit limit too high. As a result, it refunded some 
interest and charges and paid £75 compensation. But Barclaycard has said it nonetheless 
feels that the limit set on Ms Hs account was affordable. Barclaycard says that for each 
credit limit increase it carried out affordability checks which didnt show any concerns. It also 
says Ms H managed her account well for some significant time after the last increase.
Ms H brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator was 
satisfied Barclaycard had carried out appropriate checks. The investigator also thought Ms H 
managed her account appropriately and didnt think there was any clear evidence the 
lending was unaffordable.
Ms H doesnt accept that view. She says Barclaycards actions caused her to enter a spiral 
of debt. As no agreement could be reached, Ms Hs complaint has been referred to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint.
This complaint by Ms H is about increases to a credit card account credit limit in June 2016  
when the limit was increased from £7,700 to £11,700  and January 2017  when the limit 
was increased to £15,700. 
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any
lending or credit application. The level of those checks will vary depending on the type and 
amount of the lending. And given that what we are looking at here is limit increases on a 
credit card with a long repayment history, I wouldnt expect Barclaycards checks to have 
necessarily been as detailed here as for example for a mortgage or for lending to a new 
customer.
I have looked carefully at Barclaycards records and at Ms Hs account statements, and 
Ms H has been able to provide us with some details from her credit file, although due to the 
passage of time we dont have a full record. I can see that before the credit limit increases 
Barclaycard looked at information from Ms Hs credit file and at affordability assessments 
which she comfortably passed. The data that Barclaycard considered included information 
about Ms Hs overall indebtedness, and an assessment of her ability to repay any credit she 
was offered, which took into account her income as reported to the credit reference agencies 
though any other applications for credit Ms H had made. This data suggested to Barclaycard 
Ms H would be able to afford the credit limit increases it was offering to her. Barclaycard also 
looked at how Ms H had been managing her credit card account in the months preceding 
each limit increase.
I acknowledge Ms H consistently paid only the minimum payment to her credit card, and this 
could be a sign of potential difficulties, but in the wider context of how she was using her 
credit card  which seemed to be largely for what could be classed as non-essential 
expenditure  and in light of the information that Barclaycards checks had provided, Im not 
persuaded this was enough to cause Barclaycard concern.
I have also looked at Ms Hs account statements after each credit limit increase. I can see
Ms H didnt use the full balance for some significant time after each limit was approved and 
she made the required monthly payments for several years. It wasnt until April 2020  over 
three years after the last limit increase - that Ms H began to regularly miss payments and 
went over her credit limit. I consider this provides additional evidence that the lending was 
affordable at the time it was approved. Ive also not seen any evidence Ms H told 
Barclaycard about any financial difficulties around the time of the limit increases.
This doesnt mean Ms M wasnt struggling financially  only that I dont consider Barclaycard 
should have reasonably concluded Ms H was in financial difficulty at the times of the credit 
limit increases from the information it considered and assessed. 
I appreciate this will be very disappointing to Ms H, but with everything Ive seen Im satisfied 
Barclaycard didnt lend to her irresponsibly and that it carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks when deciding to offer to increase her credit limit. I also dont consider 
that the information Barclaycard had at the time should have prompted it to carry out more 
in-depth investigations of Ms Hs financial circumstances.
Since early 2020 Ms Hs account has been over its credit limit. Barclaycard has taken steps 
to try to assist her with her debt since then, including suspending her card and offering to 
discuss repayment plans going forward. This is what I would expect it to do. It follows Im 
satisfied Barclaycard has treated Ms H fairly here. 
Overall, with everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclaycard doesnt need to do anything 
further in the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman