DRN-3384079
The complaint
Mr N complains that GE Money Consumer Lending Limited (GE Money) unfairly turned 
down their claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
What happened
Mr N is being represented in bringing this complaint, but for clarity Ill refer to Mr N in relation 
to all representations made on his behalf.
Mr N bought a points-based timeshare membership with his wife from a business, 
Business X, in May 2007. The cost of the timeshare was £31,899 and that was paid in part 
using a loan he took out from GE Money. The loan was set to run for just over 15 years. The 
proceeds of the loan werent paid to Business X, but to a different business, Business Y.
Mr N said that they were pressured into the purchase and given incorrect information about 
what they were buying. He said that when they took out the timeshare they were sold it as 
an investment that would be easy to sell. He says they was told it was exclusive to members 
and that a new golf course and reception was going to be built. Mr N has also described 
availability issues.
So, Mr N said that Business X misrepresented the membership to them at the time of sale. 
Mr N said that had they known what Business X said wasnt right, they would not have taken 
out the membership in the first place.
In May 2018 Mr N, complained to GE Money. It responded to say that the complaint had 
been brought too late under the relevant provisions contained in the Limitation Act 1980 
(LA). It also noted that the loan proceeds had been paid to Business Y and not Business X, 
so it didnt think there were the right types of agreements in place for the CCA to apply to 
this complaint.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think GE Money needed to do 
anything further. They agreed that the claim under s.75 and s.140A CCA had been brought 
too late, so they didnt think GE Money needed to consider the substance of the claim.
Mr Ns representative didnt accept this and so the complaint was passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This includes the relevant law and regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice and good industry practice. 
Having done that, Im not going to tell GE Money to do anything further to resolve the matter 
and Ive explained why below.
When evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
I want to assure Mr N that, if I dont address every point thats been raised, its not because I 
havent thought about it. I have considered everything thats been said and sent to us. But 
Im going to concentrate in this decision on what I think is relevant and material to reaching a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Were there the right arrangements in place for Mr N to make a claim under the CCA?
Under s.75 CCA, a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a precondition to a claim under 
that provision. The same type of agreement is also a precondition to a claim under s.140A 
CCA. GE Money said that there was no such agreement in this case, as the supplier of the 
timeshare was Business X, but the loan proceeds went to a different business, Business Y. 
So, no claim could be brought.
Having considered all of the evidence and law, I dont think the position is as simple as GE 
Money suggests. There is case law that demonstrates that it is possible a court would 
conclude that there were the right arrangements in place that gave rise to Mr Ns claim under 
s.75 and s.140A CCA. What is crucial is the relationship between the supplier of the service 
(Business X) and the business that took the payment (Business Y). But I dont need to make 
a formal finding on this point as, even if thought the right arrangement was in place to make 
the claims in question, I think GE Money would have a defence under the LA.
Was the claim under s.75 CCA brought in time?
Mr N said that Business X misrepresented to them the nature and benefits of the timeshare 
agreement, so they say GE Money is jointly liable under s.75 CCA. But if GE Money could 
show the claim was brought outside of the time limits set out in the LA, it would be entitled to 
rely on the LA as a defence to answering the claim. I should make it clear however that Im 
not deciding if any right that Mr N may have to bring these claims has expired under the LA - 
thats a matter for the courts. In this decision Im considering if GE Money has acted fairly 
and reasonably by turning down Mr Ns claims.
A claim for misrepresentation against the supplier would ordinarily be brought under s.2(1) of 
the Misrepresentation Act 1967. And it was held in Laws v. The Society of Lloyds [2003] 
EWCA 1887 that this type of claim is an action founded in tort covered by s.2 LA or an action 
brought for a sum recoverable by statute within s.9 LA. Under both of those provisions, a 
claimant has a period of six years to bring a claim from the date on which the cause of action 
accrued.
Mr N made a like claim against GE Money under s.75 CCA. That claim was brought under 
the CCA, so it is covered by s.9 LA  which means he had six years from the date on which 
the cause of action accrued to make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point in time that everything needed to 
make a legal claim occurred. So, in Mr Ns case, thats when he could have made a claim for 
misrepresentation against the supplier or the like claim against GE Money. I think that was 
the date he and Mrs N entered into the agreement to buy the timeshare in May 2007. It was 
at that time that they entered into an agreement based, they say, on the misrepresentations 
of Business X. They say, had the misrepresentations not been made, they wouldnt have bought the timeshare. And it was on that day that they suffered a loss, as they took out the 
loan from GE Money.
It follows, therefore, that I think the cause of action accrued in May 2007, such that Mr N had 
six years from then to make a claim. But he didnt try to contact GE Money about his claim 
until May 2018, which was approximately 11 years later, that fell outside of the time limits set 
out in the LA. So, I think GE Money acted fairly in turning down this misrepresentation claim.
But even if that wasnt the case, the cash price of the timeshare had to be between £100 and 
£30,000 in order to engage s.75 CCA. And in this case, the cost of the timeshare was 
£31,899. So, thats another reason why I dont think GE Money has to do anything further in 
relation to this claim.
The claim under s.140A CCA
Under this section a court may make an order under section 140B in connection with a credit 
agreement if it decides that the relationship between the debtor and the creditor arising out 
of the agreement is unfair. Only a court has the power to make such a determination but I 
think this is relevant law and I have taken it into account.
The LA applies to a claim under s.140A CCA too. It was held in Patel v. Patel [2009] EWHC 
3264 (QB) that, when considering s.140A CCA, the time for limitation purposes ran from the 
date that the credit agreement ended if it was not still running at the time the claim was 
made. The limitation period is six years. So, Mr N make a claim within six years of January 
2008. As he didnt do that, I think he made his claim too late. So, I dont think GE Money 
needs to do anything further.
Conclusion
Overall, I think GE Money fairly considered the things it needed to when it said the claim had 
been brought too late. Its ultimately for the courts to decide whether or not any claim that Mr 
N may have against the supplier or GE Money has expired under the LA. But, as far as I can 
see from the information available, any claim that Mr N might have against the supplier 
and/or GE Money most likely exceeded the time limits set out in the LA . I think it is 
reasonable to take this into account in these circumstances. And I am not persuaded that 
GE Money acted unfairly in declining the claims.
Unaffordable lending
Mr N says GE Money needed to do more to properly assess Mr Ns creditworthiness. This 
assertion was framed as giving rise to an unfair debtor-creditor relationship under Section 
140A. And Ive already explained why I think that claim is likely to fall outside of the time limit 
set by the LA. 
Lending money under a regulated credit agreement of the kind in question was an activity 
covered by our jurisdiction May 2007. But even if I were to find GE Money didnt do 
everything that it should have when it agreed to lend, Id still have to be satisfied that the 
lending was unaffordable for Mr N and that he lost out as a result in order to uphold this his 
complaint on that basis.
I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr N had any affordability issues during the life of 
this loan. So, I dont think there is sufficient evidence for me to uphold this complaint for this 
reason.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against GE Money Consumer 
Lending Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman