DRN-3426095
The complaint
Companies Ill call F have complained that American International Group UK Limited (AIG) 
unfairly turned down their business interruption insurance claim after they were forced to 
close their business premises due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
F is represented in this complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer to all actions and 
comments as being those of F.
What happened
F held a business interruption insurance policy with AIG. They are a group of manufacturing 
companies.
As a result of the restrictions imposed in response to Covid-19 they closed their businesses 
from March to June 2020. They claimed on the policy for their business interruption losses. 
AIG declined the claim. It said there had been no physical loss of or damage to property as a 
result of the pandemic. It also said the claim wasnt covered by any other part of the policy.
F complained to AIG. Unhappy with AIGs response, they brought their complaint to us. F 
thought the claim should be covered under the following sections of the policy:
Damage
F said the core business interruption section of the policy covers damage and that the 
definition of damage is wide enough to cover a loss even where there hasnt been 
physical damage. F referred to the case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance 
Company (2020) in support of why the claim should be paid.
Specified and Unspecified Suppliers and Specified and Unspecified Customers
F said their businesses had suffered interruption or interference because of the impact of 
Covid-19 on their suppliers and customers. 
Denial of access
F said the use of and access to the premises had been interrupted as a result of Covid-19 
in the vicinity of the premises.
Infectious Diseases
F said the list of diseases set out in the policy which didnt include Covid-19 wasnt an 
exhaustive list and there was nothing in the policy to say that new diseases couldnt be 
added or were excluded. F pointed out that as there had been cases of Covid-19 within 
25 miles of the premises, the claim should be covered. 
Defects in Sanitary Arrangements
F said it was required to close because social distancing couldnt be maintained and that 
amounted to a defect in the sanitary arrangements at the premises.
Other factors
F also said that there was no exclusion in the policy for pandemics.
Our Investigator investigated their complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as she 
didnt think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of their claim.
F asked for an Ombudsmans decision. In particular, F argued that their businesses had 
had to close due to the sanitary arrangements at the premises on the basis that Covid-19 
was a matter of public health and by analogy, sanitation. It referred to the judges 
comments in Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas Corporate Brokers Ltd & 
AXA Insurance Designated Activity Company [2021] IEHC 263 (Brushfield) in support of 
why its claim should be covered under the clause regarding sanitary arrangements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
F has made a number of detailed points. I wont address them all but will instead focus on 
what I see as the central issues to this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Fs businesses. But I dont intend to uphold their complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether AIG has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining their claim. Ill consider each of the various parts within the policy 
which might be relevant to Fs claim in turn.
The core business interruption in the policy covers business interruption caused by:
an Incident caused by the operation of a Specified Peril insured under Material 
Damage Section.
Incident is defined as:
an Event of Damage to insured Property used by Your Business carried on at the 
Premises.
Event is defined as:
any one occurrence or series of occurrences directly or indirectly attributable to single 
source or the same original repeated or continuing cause.
 
Damage is defined as:
physical loss or destruction of or damage to Property.
The Specified Perils or causes of damage in the Material Damage section of the policy 
include events such as fire and storm and accidental physical damage. Regardless of the 
cause of damage there has to be physical damage to property in order for a claim to be 
valid.With regard to the question of whether there was physical damage, F has referred to the 
case of MDS Inc. v Factory Mutual Insurance Company (2020). However, I understand this 
has been overturned by the Court of Appeal for Ontario. Ive considered this, but Ive also 
considered other cases which I think are more relevant to Fs claim, including TKC London 
Ltd v Allianz Insurance PLC [2020] EWHC 2710 (Comm), Merlin v British Nuclear Fuels Plc 
[1990] 2 QB 557 and Hunter v London Docklands Development Corporation [1996] 2 WLR 
348.
I think that, for damage to have occurred, there would need to be a physical change or 
altered state to Fs property, which made it less valuable. Alternatively, its possible 
damage could be said to have occurred if specialist cleaning was required to remove the 
cause of potential damage.
I havent seen anything to indicate that Covid-19 caused physical damage to Fs property. 
So, I think AIG was correct to say Fs claim is not covered under this part of the policy.
There are various extensions to the core cover under the policy. The extension for 
suppliers and customers covers business interruption caused by an Incident (as defined 
above) to property at the premises of Fs suppliers and/or customers. That means the loss 
must have been caused by physical damage to property. As I havent seen any evidence 
that Covid-19 caused physical damage to property for the reasons set out above, I dont 
think this extension covers Fs claim.
Another extension covers business interruption caused by Damage (as defined above) to 
property in the vicinity of Fs premises which prevented or hindered the use or access to 
Fs premises. Again, there must have been physical damage to property. Since I havent 
seen any evidence to suggest that Covid-19 caused physical damage to property in the 
vicinity of Fs premises, I dont think this extension covers Fs claim.
Theres a further extension for infectious diseases which covers:
 interruption of or interference with Your Business in consequence of closure of the 
Premises or part thereof on the order advice or stipulation of any government or local 
authority as a result of
1) any human infectious or human contagious Disease (excluding Acquired Immune 
Deficiency Syndrome [AIDS] or an AIDS-related condition) manifested by any person whilst 
at the Premises, or within a 25mile radius of the Premises
The term Disease is defined as any of the following diseases sustained by any person 
acute encephalitis, acute infectious hepatitis, acute meningitis, acute poliomyelitis, anthrax, 
botulism, brucellosis, cholera, diphtheria, enteric fever (typhoid or paratyphoid), food 
poisoning, haemolytic uraemic syndrome(HUS), infectious bloody diarrhoea, invasive group 
A streptococcal disease, legionellosis, leprosy, malaria, measles, meningococcal 
septicaemia, mumps, plague, rabies, rubella, SARS, scarlet fever, smallpox, tetanus, 
tuberculosis, typhus, viral haemorrhagic fever(VHF), whooping cough and yellow fever.
The list of diseases doesnt include Covid-19. Since Covid-19 might not have known about 
at the time the policy was drafted, I wouldnt expect it to be included in the list of diseases. 
But there were similar policies on the market that provided cover in the circumstances of the 
pandemic, for example policies which covered all notifiable diseases as set out and updated 
on a Government-defined list. Fs policy is not like this  it sets out a defined list of the 
diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording of the policy which implies 
it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. So, I dont think the policy 
can fairly be read as covering any new diseases. The list of covered diseases does include SARS, so Ive considered whether this would 
extend to cover Covid-19. However, I dont think SARS and Covid-19 are the same disease. 
The Governments list of notifiable diseases lists them as two separate diseases. And the 
World Health Organisation has also confirmed that while related, the two viruses [that 
cause the diseases] are different, and it announced that Covid-19 was the name of this 
new disease. So, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably say that 
these two diseases are the same and therefore this policy extension doesnt provide cover 
for Fs claim.
Since Covid-19 is not included within the definition of Disease it is irrelevant whether there 
were any Covid-19 cases on or near Fs premises.
Lastly theres cover for loss due to closure of the premises by a public authority due to:
defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the Premises.
F said that its premises closed because safe social distancing couldnt be maintained and 
that therefore amounted to a closure due to sanitation issues.
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, the case of 
Brushfield, as F has specifically referred to it. This case took place in the Irish courts so, as 
F says, this is not binding on English courts. 
The judge in Brushfield considered whether closure by a public authority due to Covid-19 
constituted a defect in the drains or other sanitary arrangements at the premises. The 
plaintiff had argued that the inability to facilitate effective social distancing on the premises 
was a defect in the sanitary arrangements. The judge found it difficult to accept that a 
reasonable person at the time the policy was taken out would have classed the practice of 
social distancing as a sanitary arrangement. He went on to say A defect inherently 
involves some element of deficiency or fault. He said there was nothing to suggest that 
the Irish regulations requiring the closure of hotels and bars to minimise the spread of 
Covid-19 had been made because of a deficiency in sanitary arrangements.
F has pointed out that in the same case the judge said he could see how a deficiency in 
hygiene standards could lead to a closure order being imposed for public health and safety 
reasons. But the judge went on to say that no equivalent deficiency has been identified 
here in the context of social or physical distancing.
I dont think the inability to social distance would reasonably be considered a defect in Fs 
sanitary arrangements. I also havent been provided with any evidence to persuade me 
that it was the circumstances at Fs premises in particular that led to the Governments 
decision to introduce the restrictions it did. 
For these reasons, I dont think this extension covers Fs claim.
Finally, F has argued that there is no exclusion in the policy for pandemics. I dont think it 
matters that Covid-19 isnt specifically excluded. The key thing is that there isnt a clause in 
the policy that provides cover. Fs policy covers a set of defined risks and there is no cover 
for losses caused by circumstances outside those specified risks. So, the fact that there 
isnt an exclusion for pandemics or Covid-19 doesnt mean that AIG should accept this 
claim.
I appreciate my decision will be disappointing to F. But, having considered the matter 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require AIG to pay this claim.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman