DRN-4172687
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as D, complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc made 
errors which prevented the company from benefiting from a repayment holiday on its 
borrowing.
What happened
D had a Bounce Back Loan (BBL) from RBS. BBLs were provided by lenders under a 
government-backed scheme which was designed to help businesses get finance more 
quickly if they were adversely affected by the coronavirus outbreak. 
In August 2022, D wanted to use the Pay As You Grow (PAYG) option to take a repayment 
holiday from the BBL repayments. Things went wrong, D had difficulty accessing its online 
banking, and no repayment holiday was actioned.
D complained to RBS. In response, the bank said that its errors may have affected the 
payment holiday application. It paid £300 in compensation and apologised for the 
inconvenience. D wasnt satisfied and referred its complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the evidence and concluded that RBS didnt need to take any 
further action. He gave these reasons, in summary:
It wasnt entirely clear what had happened after D applied, but he thought the PAYG 
repayment holiday wasnt put in place, as a result of an error by RBS. 
Our normal approach would be to expect the customer to be put back in the position 
they would have been in if the error hadnt happened. In this case, that would mean 
asking RBS to apply a six-month repayment holiday retrospectively. But that would 
mean that D would now be expected to make full loan repayments as well as making 
up for the holiday period. The investigator didnt think that would help D in its current 
circumstances.
Ds accounts have now been transferred to RBSs Specialised Business 
Management Team. The investigator thought the best course of action would be for 
both parties to arrange a mutually acceptable repayment plan for the BBL.
The investigator thought it clear that the banks error had caused inconvenience to D. 
He thought the £300 already paid by the bank was fair and sufficient compensation.
D doesnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Its director says that the PAYG failure 
was caused by an underlying and ongoing problem of access to Ds accounts. He also says 
the £300 compensation isnt enough to cover the inconvenience to D.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
D has complained to this service about other problems with its RBS accounts, and these are 
being dealt with as separate complaints. My decision here is solely about the problems with 
the attempted repayment holiday arrangement in August 2022.
RBS has acknowledged that the repayment holiday process was disrupted by its errors, and 
it has apologised. However, I agree with the investigator that it wouldnt be in Ds interest for 
RBS to apply the repayment holiday retrospectively, and my understanding is that D doesnt 
disagree with that point. With Ds accounts now transferred to the banks Specialised 
Business Management Team, the parties can now discuss options for repayment.
Ive thought carefully about the level of compensation due for the inconvenience caused by 
RBS. I can understand that Ds director would himself have been upset by the banks errors 
and would have suffered personal inconvenience, but in this decision I can consider only the 
inconvenience suffered by D as a company. In the circumstances of this complaint, I think 
£300 was enough to compensate D for the companys inconvenience regarding the 
repayment holiday.
For the above reasons, I think RBS has already done enough to settle this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman