DRN-3862313
The complaint,
Ms H says there was a problem with the passcode(s) Nationwide Building Societys card 
reader generated. This meant she was prevented from using her online banking to transfer 
money to an account elsewhere that paid better interest.
What happened
Ms H says as result of this problem she had to travel to a branch to complete the process. 
She initially called and then tried online chat but this did not resolve the issue. The branch 
staff had the same problem with a different card reader, but they were able to find a 
workaround. 
This caused her significant inconvenience and she incurred costs from having to travel to the 
branch. She wants Nationwide to properly investigate what went wrong and asks for 
substantial compensation after an entire weekend of frustration and inconvenience. She also 
wants compensation for lost interest, and for her travel and parking costs to be reimbursed. 
She says Nationwide should re-introduce telephone banking so there is a solution if there 
are issues with online banking.
Nationwide said its IT department investigated and confirmed Ms Hs failed attempts to logon 
online were either due to the wrong passcode being used or the wrong option being selected 
on the card reader which would have resulted in the wrong passcode being generated. It 
confirmed it had removed the option to make transfers to an external account by phone in 
2019, but internal transfers could still be made this way. It did accept though that its call wait 
times over that weekend were longer than acceptable and it failed to make a promised call 
back to Ms H. For this it paid her £50 compensation and apologised.
Our investigator did not uphold Ms Hs complaint. In summary, he said there was no 
evidence that an error on the part of Nationwide had caused the problem with the passcodes 
the card reader generated.
Ms H disagreed with this assessment and asked for an ombudsmans review. She said the 
card reader did not generate an error code, rather codes that could not be used. She said 
the testimony of the member of staff that helped her in the branch has not been referred to. 
She hadnt been told to use the card first in an ATM  and indeed had not needed to do this 
for the replacement card. This issue caused a lot of disruption and she wants more 
appropriate compensation and a proper investigation into the problem, so it doesnt recur 
and impact anyone else.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Ms Hs complaint. IIl explain why. I want to first confirm 
that I have carefully considered all of Ms Hs comments, but in keeping with our role as an 
informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules allow, I will focus on the issues I find to 
be material to the outcome of her complaint.
I can see that Ms H is frustrated by the results of Nationwides investigation. But we are an 
evidence-based service and I have to reach my decision based on what is most likely given 
the available evidence. Unfortunately, there are times when we cannot reconcile one partys 
submission with the other partys testimony.
In this case I am satisfied that Nationwide has adequately investigated Ms Hs complaint. 
And more than once. So I am not asking that it investigates the issue again. It has supplied 
screenshots from its Internet Banking Administration app showing what happened on 3 July 
2022. This evidences that the wrong passcode was used for the online transfer. It has said 
that this could be either because the wrong passcode was entered, or because the card 
reader was not set to the right function and so generated a passcode that would not work.
Based on what Ms H has told us it sees more likely it was for the second reason  but there 
is no contemporaneous evidence available to reinforce this. Nationwide has explained that it 
only holds transaction logs for 14 days and after that point it is unable to see the data and so 
cannot know if the correct function was selected on the card reader at the time. But it has 
confirmed that its checks showed that the account was card-reader enabled so there would 
be no reason it did not work if the correct process was followed.
Ms H asked if any testimony from the branch adviser had been considered. In late July 2022 
Nationwide asked for comments from the staff member that assisted Ms H, and it has shared 
her recollections with this service. She said that she spent time making sure Ms Hs contact 
information and details were up to date and then tried to access online banking on a branch 
device with Ms Hs card and a branch card reader, but it kept coming up with an error 
message. She goes on to say she cant remember what the error was. There is nothing in 
this testimony that gives me cause to change my findings.
It follows I cannot hold Nationwide liable for the disruption to Ms Hs weekend, or the costs 
she incurred from visiting the branch or any other financial loss.
Ms H also said that a telephone option should be reinstated as back up for instances like 
this. However the channels the society offers its members to transact is a commercial 
decision and not something we would interfere in. 
For the reasons set out above it follows I am not asking Nationwide to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
I am not upholding Ms Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 March 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman