DRN-3786526
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) has said that it would start to 
charge them a monthly account fee for their Premier account.
Mr and Mrs G are unhappy about this because they say that they had an arrangement in 
place whereby TSB had agreed that it would refund the account fees each year, so they 
would effectively get the account for free.
What happened
TSB says that the terms and conditions of the account allow it to make changes to the 
account  in this case to start charging Mr and Mrs G the monthly account fees for their 
Premier account. It did however agree to pay Mr G £50 to cover two months worth of 
account fees.
Unhappy with the response, Mr G referred his complaint to our service. One of our 
adjudicators assessed the complaint and he didnt find in Mr Gs favour.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website, and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs G say that they had a unique agreement in place with TSB whereby they would 
not have to pay for their Premier account, providing they kept their balance above a certain 
amount. Although Mr and Mrs G say that they were charged the monthly account fee, but the 
fees were then refunded each year. Mr and Mrs G say that because of this agreement, TSB 
is now unable to start charging them the monthly account fee. However, I am unable to 
agree with this. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs Gs account was first changed to a fee-paying Platinum account in October 
2001. It was then later changed to a fee-paying Premier account on 14 November 2003. One 
of the key features of both accounts at the time was something known as a fee-waiver. This 
meant that, providing the account holder kept the balance above a certain amount, they 
would then not be charged the monthly account fee.
However, in Mr and Mrs Gs case, it seems that there was an issue with their account that 
meant that, even though they kept their account balance above the agreed amount, they 
were still charged the monthly fee. To rectify this, it seems that there was an agreement in 
place whereby TSB would then manually refund the account fees each year. This agreement 
does seem to have been a bespoke solution to Mr and Mrs G. But given that Mr and Mrs G 
say they received the refund of account fees, providing they kept their balance above a 
certain amount, Im satisfied that this agreement was put in place to ensure that they were 
able to benefit from the fee-waiver, which was a standard feature of some TSB accounts 
taken out before a certain date (and therefore something they were entitled to receive by 
having the account).
I understand that Mr and Mrs G are unhappy that the fee-waiver has now been removed 
from the account. They say that TSB cant remove such a feature of the account unilaterally, 
because they had a common law contract in place.
Unfortunately, TSB has not provided a copy of the account terms and conditions from when 
Mr and Mrs G were sold the Premier account. However, to understand what terms and 
conditions were likely to have formed part of the contract when Mr and Mrs G agreed to the 
account, I have looked at an archived version of TSBs website (when TSB was previously 
operating under a different name) from 2003. And I looked specifically at what information it 
contained about the Premier account. And under the important information tab for the 
Premier account, it said:
Current account
If your salary falls below the minimum entry criteria in place, the Bank has the right to 
convert the account to a standard cheque account, providing reasonable notice is given. 
We may vary the service and facilities offered on the Premier Banking Service current 
account giving notice to you either in a newspaper, branch, on-line or letter if and when this 
is necessary or appropriate to do so. Some reasons for this might include:
 if the change does not affect your rights or obligations;
 to comply with legal, fiscal or regulatory requirements;
 to rectify errors, omissions, inaccuracies or ambiguities;
 for any reorganisation within the group of companies which we are a part of; or
 to cover service differences when we change computer systems and other processes, or 
having regard to market practices and overall customer demand
As such, when Mr and Mrs G agreed to upgrade their account to the Premier account, I think 
its likely that one of the terms of the account that they had been required to agree to, 
included what is known as a variation clause. And because of the nature of a packaged 
account i.e. it operates on a monthly rolling basis, rather than for a set period of time, such 
clauses have always featured as a standard part of the account terms and conditions.  
So in simple terms, the presence of a variation clause in the account terms and conditions 
allowed TSB to make changes to the Premier account cost or features, without it needing to 
obtain consent from every single affected account holder, before it could implement such 
changes. And indeed, I can see that TSB has made many changes to the costs and features 
of the Premier account over the years that Mr and Mrs G have held the account  this even 
included a change to the fee-waiver and the amount needed in the account to avoid paying 
the monthly fee.
As such, Im satisfied that TSB has always been able to add, remove or amend the features 
of the Premier account, without it first needing to obtain consent from Mr and Mrs G. And 
unfortunately for Mr and Mrs G, this includes the removal of the fee-waiver feature. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs G feel they should be treated differently because they had a 
unique agreement in place. But from everything I have seen, the purpose of the unique 
agreement was to ensure that they received the fee-waiver - which was a standard feature 
of the account and something they shouldve received anyway (providing they met the 
criteria). 
As such, in the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr and Mrs G should 
be able to continue to have the Premier account for free, just because there was an 
agreement in place to process the fee-waiver once a year manually, rather than 
automatically on a monthly basis.
What TSB was required to do when it decided it would completely remove the fee-waiver 
feature from all Premier accounts was to give all affected account holders  in this case Mr and Mrs G - notice of the changes being made to the account. This was to ensure Mr and 
Mrs G were aware of what changes were taking place and also to give them time to consider 
their options. As far as I can see TSB did this. And I can see in the final response letter, TSB 
also agreed to pay Mr and Mrs G £50 to cover the cost of the account over two months. In 
the circumstances, this seems fair to me.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 December 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman