DRN-3418549
The complaint
Mr I complains to Saxo Capital Markets UK Limited about a withdrawal they failed to honour 
in full as not only did he need the money, but what was left was later lost.
What happened
On 30 November 2020, Mr I tried to withdraw $1,500 from his Saxo trading account that had 
a cash balance of $1,900. He says he received the usual confirmations and assurances that 
the withdrawal would go through without any issues. But once the withdrawal was 
processed, Mr I only received $900 back from Saxo  $600 short of what he asked for.
Mr I got in touch with Saxo to find out why he hadnt received the full amount. They said he 
didnt have enough cash on his account to meet the request and explained that available 
cash was dependent on things such as margin requirement and the effect of running profit 
and loss. Nevertheless Saxo agreed Mr I ought to have been told why the figure had been 
altered. 
Saxo treated Mr Is concerns as a complaint and offered him $275 for the inconvenience 
caused in not being informed about the lesser amount being withdrawn. Mr I didnt think this 
was enough as hed still been given less money than he wanted. So he asked for our help. 
One of our investigators had a look into what had happened but thought the offer already 
made was fair. Our investigator reviewed Mr Is account on the date in question and didnt 
think he had $1,500 available to withdraw given some of the money was supporting open 
positions by way of margin  had the money have been withdrawn its likely Mr Is positions 
wouldnt have been supported and would have been closed. 
Despite this, our investigator agreed with Saxo in that they ought to have let Mr I know  
especially as he had plans for the funds  but he thought their offer of $275 was enough to 
settle the complaint.
Mr I didnt agree. He shared a customer support ticket which he thought confirmed $1,500 
was available to withdraw and that this had been executed. But our investigator didnt think 
this meant the sum was available  instead that the request had been received. And even if 
he were wrong on this point, he still felt that the $275 offer would still be sufficient given the 
funds ultimately were not available for withdrawal. 
Mr I said the process had been the same as all other withdrawals hed placed before, so 
hed prepared to use the funds given the confirmations shown. As an agreement wasnt 
reached, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Is account around the time his withdrawal request was made. I can see he 
had $7,363.69 in cash but was running a $3,410 loss, meaning his available cash was 
$3,953.69. However, of this sum, $2,997.20 was in use, funding an open position. Mr I 
therefore only had $956.49 of cash that wasnt being utilised. 
Though I appreciate Mr I may have seen a higher figure, I can see why Saxo didnt fulfil the 
full request for $1,500 as this would have required closing or reducing Mr Is open positions.
I agree Saxo could have done better here  by making it clearer how much cash was 
available for withdrawal and by getting in touch with Mr I to manage his expectations  but I 
think their offer of $275 to apologise for the inconvenience and confusion of not having done 
so is sufficient given the full sum wasnt available. 
I note Mr I feels the support tickets and confirmations he got from Saxo meant they accepted 
his request. But I dont agree this meant Saxo had to send Mr I the full sum, instead, I think 
the notifications were Saxos recognition of the request thatd been made, rather than 
confirmation itd been fulfilled. 
I appreciate Mr I was disappointed by what happened and it took a couple of weeks for him 
to be told why hed withdrawn less than he wanted. But I dont think Saxo ought to have 
transferred him $1,500 when it wasnt available  had they have done so, theyd have 
jeopardised Mr Is trading strategy by closing him out sooner than hed have wished. And 
while Mr I says Saxo fulfilling his withdrawal request wouldve brought forward the closure of 
his US index position meaning hed have lost less, at no point was he unable to manage it 
himself so I dont agree Saxo contributed to any trading loss. 
From everything Ive seen, it is the case that Mr I wasnt able to withdraw the full amount he 
wanted to as some of it was supporting his open positions. While I agree Saxo could have 
handled things differently and let him know how much was instead available, I think the offer 
made is enough to recognise the lack of communication. Importantly I do not think the offer 
should be increased as the additional sum simply was not available for Mr I at the time.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint as I think the offer made is a fair 
way to settle the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman