DRN-3311423
The complaint
Mr W complains that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP (Options - formerly Carey 
Pensions) accepted his investment into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) when, he 
says, it shouldnt have accepted business from the business who introduced him to Options; 
Caledonian International Associates (Caledonian). Mr W transferred his Armed Forces 
Pension into the Options SIPP in 2012. He says his pension is worth less than when 
invested [and] the future retirement looks bleak.
Mr W wants to be put back in the position he would have been in if he hadnt transferred out 
of the Armed Forces Pension Scheme.
What happened
Mr W has explained that he and other work colleagues were approached by a representative 
of Caledonian whilst working abroad in July 2012. He says he met with the Caledonian rep 
(first at his place of work and then in a local coffee shop) and they recommended that he 
transfer his Armed Forces Pension into an Options SIPP and invest in a Friends Provident 
International (FPI) bond on the basis that it would outperform the benefits with the Armed 
Forces. He told us:
I wasnt particularly interested in transferring out of the [Armed Forces Pension 
scheme] at the time and only did it because the Caledonian Rep told me that the 
pension was frozen in the UK whereas it would grow if I moved it to Carey  There 
was no discussion on the risk with FPI and no one explained about the guaranteed, 
index linked benefits I was giving up by transferring 
On 9 July 2012 an Armed Forces Pension Scheme Analysis was prepared by Caledonian for 
Mr W. This document set out two options  transfer to a SIPP or a qualifying recognised 
overseas pension scheme (QROPS)  and compared six areas of difference between 
Transfer to SIPP / QROPS and Armed Forces Pension Scheme. The six areas were 
retirement age, death benefit, investment control, income tax, currency of denomination and 
guaranteed income. Both transfer options used investment with FPI for the illustration. The 
front page of the document included the following wording:
This is intended solely as a general overview and should be in no way considered 
advice It is always important that clients seek individual tax and financial advice 
specific to their circumstances.
The Options SIPP Application Form For Direct Clients was signed by Mr W on 11 July 
2012 and sent to Options by Caledonian on 26 July. Caledonian included a checklist of 
documents or enclosures. The following items were ticked: Carey Application, [Pension 
Transfer Department] Letter, PTV, Carey Instruction Letter, LOA for Caledonian, Transfer 
Letter, Signed Fee Structure, Passport, Utility/Bank Statement/Driving Licence, Advice, Trust 
Document. The following items were marked N/A: Castlestone Disclaimer, FP Illustration, 
TVA.
In summary, on the application form Mr W confirmed his UK address, age, occupation, 
annual earnings and selected retirement age (55). He also confirmed that the transferring 
pension scheme was the Armed Forces Pensions Scheme (a defined benefits scheme), 
gave an approximate pension value of £18,000, detailed that hed be investing 100% of his 
fund with FPI and nominated his death benefit beneficiary.
The selected retirement age, details of transferring scheme and details of the investment 
were pre-populated, rather than handwritten like the rest of the form. And the box waiving 
cancellation rights was ticked.
The final page of the application form  headed 12. Declaration included the following:
I understand that Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees UK Ltd are 
not in anyway able to provide me with any advice
The application form was accompanied by a separate page-long indemnity with a table at 
the start which detailed the Member Name, Address, Occupational Scheme name, 
Occupational Scheme type and Adviser. This was signed by both Mr W and the Caledonian 
rep. The Caledonian rep was named as Adviser and the reps signature was made in the 
space for Adviser Name in the signature box. The declaration included, amongst other 
statements, the following:
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
The declaration concluded with the statement:
I fully indemnify both Carey Pensions UK LLP and Carey Pension Trustees Ltd at all 
times against any and all liability arising from this transaction.
A Fee Schedule detailing an annual administration fee of £300 payable to Options, and that 
Caledonian would be paid £500 by Options from the SIPP scheme funds, was also signed 
by Mr W.
Mr Ws SIPP was established on 27 July 2012 and Options sent him the SIPP Terms and 
Conditions, Key Facts document and Right to Withdraw notice.
In September 2012 the Armed Forces Pension Scheme confirmed the value of his accrued 
pension rights  £20,357  and the transfer. A sum of £18,927 was then invested with FPI in 
October 2012.
Mr W has shown us a valuation report that he received in early 2018  this gave his FPI 
portfolio a value of £21,266. Around this time, he consulted an Independent Financial 
Adviser (IFA) who made him aware of the risk of transferring away from the Armed Forces 
Scheme and recommended he complain.
Mr Ws complaint
In October 2018 Mr W complained to Options, via his representative, about the role Options 
had played in the transfer of his pension and subsequent investments. He was unhappy that 
the growth of his investment was well below expectations. He complained that hed been 
inappropriately advised to transfer his deferred Armed Forces Pension by an unregulated, 
offshore adviser, into a SIPP or QROPs account with [Options] and that Options hadnt 
performed any due diligence ahead of that transaction.Options response to Mr Ws complaint
Options investigated Mr Ws complaint and gave its final response in December 2018, 
rejecting it. In summary it said:
Options provides execution only (i.e. non-advised) SIPP administration services and 
this was explained in the documentation when Mr Ws signed up to his SIPP. By 
signing the documents Mr Ws confirmed to Options that he understood this.
It was required to execute Mr Ws specific instructions by virtue of Rule 11.2.19 of the 
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). Options would have been in breach of this 
rule if it had not executed Mr Ws specific instruction to invest in FPI. It treated Mr W 
fairly by complying with the regulations and so is not liable for his alleged loss.
Options is not permitted to provide advice nor comment on the suitability of a SIPP, 
the underlying investment, nor the suitability of the introducer a customer has chosen 
to use.
Caledonian was an unregulated introducer, but Options is not restricted to dealing 
with regulated brokers.
Options strict processes for dealing with unregulated introducers were followed.
Options undertook due diligence on Caledonian on a number of occasions and had 
no reason to believe that it should not accept introductions from this source at the 
time it accepted the introduction of Mr W.
Mr W claims he received advice from Caledonian but Options cant comment as it 
was not party to this and had no control over the information provided to Mr W by 
Caledonian.
Options considered Mr W to be a direct client who had not used a financial adviser. 
The documentation provided to Mr W by Options recommended that he seek 
independent, regulated financial advice.
Options is not the investment manager and is not responsible for the performance of 
the investments held within the FPI investment portfolio  the value of the portfolio is 
outside Options control.
Options also highlighted the key information included on the various documents Mr W had 
read and signed in 2012. In summary it said:
The application form made clear it was for Direct Clients establishing a SIPP 
without advice, and that the SIPP would be established on an execution only basis. 
Mr W understood at the time that he did not have a financial adviser and had not 
received any form of advice.
The application form made it clear Options had not provided advice, was not 
responsible for the suitability or appropriateness of the decision to establish a SIPP 
and was not responsible for investment choices or decisions. It also guided Mr W to 
seek financial advice, but he chose not to do so.
If Mr W believed hed received advice, he did not raise the fact that he was 
completing an application form for non-advised clients.It is not for Options to look behind Mr Ws signature  he should not have signed the 
documents if hed received financial advice. Options is not responsible if Mr W chose 
not to heed warnings spelt out in plain, simple English.
Overall, Options said it had complied with its regulatory obligations by providing Mr W with 
clear and accurate information about the SIPP he was applying for and acting in accordance 
with his written instructions.
The parties involved
Given the various parties involved in Mr Ws pension transfer and subsequent investment 
Ive set out a summary of each below.
Options
Options is a SIPP provider and administrator. It was regulated by the Financial Services 
Authority (FSA) at the time of the events complained about  now the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). It was  and still is  authorised to arrange (bring about) deals in 
investments; deal in investments as principal; establish, operate and wind up a personal 
pension scheme; and make arrangements with a view to transactions in investments.
Caledonian
Caledonian was the trading name of MMG Associates, which was registered in the British 
Virgin Islands. Caledonian was not authorised in the UK to undertake regulated activities and 
it does not appear on the FCAs Financial Services Register. And there is no evidence it was 
authorised to carry out such activities in any other jurisdiction.
Creechurch Capital
Creechurch Capital (Creechurch) is an investment manager based in the Isle of Man. The 
evidence is that Creechurch agreed to manage or provide oversight of some of the 
investments taken out by Caledonians customers after they had transferred their pensions. I 
shall call the individual representing Creechurch, who was involved in some of Caledonians 
general dealings with Options, Mr P.
Friends Provident International
Friends Provident International is registered in the Isle of Man. It provided a single premium, 
unit-linked international whole of life assurance policy (bond) called Zenith which allowed 
investment in a number of funds with a number of fund providers. Mr W invested in a number 
of funds within a Zenith bond.
The relationship between Caledonian and Options
Ive set out the background to Mr Ws complaint and his dealings with Caledonian and 
Options above. But alongside those events its important to understand the underlying 
relationship between Caledonian and Options.
Options has said that it carried out due diligence checks on Caledonian and has provided 
supporting evidence of the checks it made.
I have set out below a summary of what I consider to be the key events and/or actions 
during the relationship between Options and Caledonian, which I have observed from the 
available evidence (this includes evidence from Mr Ws case file and generic submissions Options has made to us about its due diligence on, and its relationship with, Caledonian).
In March 2012 a business profile was completed which recorded Options first meeting with 
Mr C of Caledonian where he set out their proposed business model. This detailed that Mr C 
was preferred adviser (my emphasis) for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme 
for clients who were described as:
30 to 50 year olds
Had been in the armed forces for between 6 to 10 years
Had left the armed forces and wanted to transfer their pension arrangements
They had no expectation of long-life expectancy
They were living today so wanted to access funds earlier then they could if their 
pension stayed in the armed forces pension scheme
They were generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various 
countries such as Thailand, Germany, Spain etc.
They were now earning quite large salaries circa £70k plus
The business profile detailed that clients were referred to Mr C from his armed forces 
pensions contact or by other clients, and that he was currently putting them into an 
international Friends Provident Bond, the underlying investments were regulated. It went on:
[Mr C] himself was not a regulated adviser, he was a consultant to these clients and 
advised (my emphasis) them on their armed forces transfers only, he was a qualified 
accountant and was a member of the Chartered Institute of Accountants 
He was developing a relationship with [Mr P], and may consider Creechurch as an 
alternative investment provider in due course. Although he was currently wanting a 
relationship with a SIPP provider.
[Mr C] was looking at volume business in the region of 50 schemes a month.
On 16 March 2012 Mr C signed and dated Options Non-Regulated Introducer Profile. The 
form began:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out 
In the company information section Mr C explained that Caledonian had been trading since 
1997 and had branches in Chile, Peru, Colombia, Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland. He 
went on to detail that they dealt with the following products:
Offshore savings plans + investment bonds  Friends Provident International + 
Generali
And indicated that these products had been accepted by other SIPP providers, including 
Options, and hadnt been declined by any pension scheme operators.
Under the heading Sales and Marketing Approach the document detailed that clients would 
be obtained by referral and that the sales process would be:Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
A question on the form about typical commission structure was answered:
7% up front from bond  0.5% trail
Under the heading Training and Information Mr C explained that agents were provided with 
ongoing product training and accompanied meetings and that their pensions training was 
delivered through visits to providers directly. He went on to say that the business produced 
by agents was monitored by:
Full administrative structure  Caledonian, Careys  compliance, FPI  compliance
Under the heading Legal and Regulatory Information Mr C confirmed that Caledonian didnt 
work with any Financial Services Authority (FSA) regulated company or adviser, wasnt a 
member of any professional or industry body, had no professional indemnity insurance, and 
hadnt been subject to any FSA supervisory visits or censure.
In response to the question: What measures are in place to ensure the Firm engage legal 
advice on the activities it carries out to ensure regulated activities are not carried out? the 
response read:
Majority of business carried out in unregulated jurisdictions but where regulations 
apply we are licensed to carry out our activities.
To the question: How does the firm demonstrate it is treating its customers fairly? the 
response read:
Compliance & Procedures in current alignment with FSA TCF.
Mr Cs other responses on the form were that Caledonians business objective was to 
continue to develop a fully compliant business of PT to HM Forces and that with regards to 
member-directed pension scheme business they were looking to achieve compliant 
business in a regulated structure.
On 23 March 2012 Options asked Mr C by email for a copy of Caledonians latest company 
accounts and a certified copy of each directors/principals passport. Options chased a 
response to this email on 3 April. A Senior Consultant at Caledonian then supplied a copy of 
Mr Cs passport (uncertified) and said theyd ask Mr C about the accounts when he returned 
from a trip. On 4 April Mr C emailed Options:
 my apologies for not having replied before now  I am back tomorrow Thursday 
and will have te (sic) appropriate documents over to you early next week 
On 27 April 2012 Options started to receive introductions from Caledonian (Options has 
confirmed there were 509 introductions to it made by Caledonian between 27 April 2012 and 
20 May 2013).
On 1 August 2012, ahead of a compliance audit, a Team Leader at Options contacted 
Caledonian to ask again for the certified passports and annual accounts. In an internal email 
the Team Leader confirmed shed spoken with Mr C and hed be sending an urgent request 
for the documentation we require.
In or around August 2012 Options had sight of a Certificate of Non-Solicitation signed by 
Mr C on behalf of Caledonian and addressed to FPI. This certificate related not to Mr Ws investment with FPI, but that of another client. The certificate read:
 The company is not authorised to conduct investment business in the United 
Kingdom. We acknowledge that this means that you are only able to accept the 
introduction from us if we have not been carrying on investment business in the 
United Kingdom.
We therefore certify that:
(i) We do not have a permanent place of business in the United Kingdom; and
(ii) We did not approach the above named client
(iii) The advice was given in Jordan
(iv)The client approached us directly and requested us to give him advice
On 4 September 2012 a Non-regulated Introducer Agreement Terms of Business 
document between Options and MMG Associates Ltd T/A Caledonian International 
Associates was signed and dated by Mr C and Options CEO. That agreement included, 
amongst other terms, the following undertaking:
The Business Introducer undertakes that they will not provide advice as defined by 
the Act in relation to the SIPP  for the avoidance of doubt this includes reference to 
advice on the selection of The SIPP Operator, contributions, transfer of benefits, 
taking benefits and HMRC rules;
On that agreement document Mr C gave an address in Switzerland as the business address.
Options has said that these terms of business were received by Caledonian in March 2012 - 
and so it seems there was a delay in Mr C signing and returning them.
On 1 November 2012 Options conducted a World Check (a risk intelligence tool which 
allows subscribers to conduct background checks on businesses and individuals) on two 
Caledonian employees  one of which was Mr C. This check did not reveal any issues.
Options has said that in early 2013, it appointed a dedicated in-house compliance officer 
and they enhanced the compliance framework within the firm, compliance monitoring 
programme and risk assessment.
On 7 March 2013 an internal email was sent by an Options Manager to several other 
Options employees summarising a call shed held with Mr C. The summary included these 
key points:
Options had explained that following recent FSA reviews and guidance SIPP 
providers were being asked to look at business received from their introducers 
against expectations of type and profile.
Options explained that several applications received recently had moved away from 
the expected profile of client and queried whether the profile was 
changing/extending.
Mr C explained that predominantly the members were in the close protection 
industry which as @ 5 years ago they all went into. He said that foreign operatives 
were now coming in in a more organised structure. Some were getting promoted into senior positions. Many were previously divers in the military and so going into Diving 
elsewhere.
Options asked Mr C to put together a note for its CEO to update Caledonians 
business profile and expectations.
On 20 March 2013 the Options Manager sent Mr C an email following up on their 
conversation. Options asked again for an update as to the changes in profile, and 
highlighted that a further two applications had been received for individuals outside of the 
expected profile.
Options has provided a document titled Overseas Introducer Assessment Proforma. This 
document is undated but, given that it refers to recently received business outside of profile 
and also the World Check completed in November 2012 I think its likely to have been 
completed around the end of March 2013, and certainly no earlier than November 2012.
I have set out below what I consider to be the most relevant parts of the form recorded, and 
the level of risk that was noted:
Heading Notes Risk 
Section 1 - Company Assessment
Google Search 
and FCANo adverse comments Low
Regulatory Cannot find any regulatory information from the details 
heldHigh
Company No UK branch. Cannot see any EEA regulatory details 
 Unknown company establishment time  cannot find 
any details from information received. No accounts 
requested? No Articles of association requested? / 
receivedMainly 
Medium
Compliance 
OfficerUnknown if have compliance officer or not High
Professional 
QualificationsNo qualifications documented other than meeting note 
from March 2012 where [Mr C] stated he was a 
qualified accountant High
Meeting Meeting held at Carey Pensions UK office March 2012 Medium
Section 2 - Advice/Client Profile/Investment
Advice Unregulated  No details of how advice given. No 
regulatory bodies / permissions seen. Although 
suggested on email that advice given in Jordan? Advice 
possibly given in Jordan, although not sure if true for 
UK based clients.
It was also noted that the funds for investment within Highthe SIPP were to be generated from:
Transfers from Armed Forces Pension occupational 
scheme.
Client Profile Client Profile: 30-50 years old. Part of armed forces 6-
10 years. Generally still UK residents, some abroad. 
Now working in security earning c. £70k pa. 
HOWEVER, recently received business outside of 
profile.High
Investment Initially Friends Provident International bond. Now 
using James Brearley. Both FCA regulated.Low
At the end of the Company Assessment section the overall result was recorded as Amber, 
a result described as Queries to raise. The wording against this result read:
Company details are a mixture of Green and Amber raise with technical review 
committee before proceeding.
The overall result at the end of the Advice/Client Profile/Investment section was recorded 
as Red, a result described as Decline.
On 26 April 2013 an Options Compliance Officer sent an email to several other Options 
employees titled Review of relationship with Caledonian. It began:
We have a responsibility to proactively monitor our distribution channels to ensure 
our products do not end up with customers for whom it is not suitable. Based on 
recent correspondence with Caledonian I am increasingly concerned by their 
business practices and therefore believe we should review our relationship with them 
and the business they have introduced. I will arrange a meeting for next week to 
discuss. In the meantime we need to determine the answers to the questions below 
to help facilitate our discussions.
The Options Compliance Officer then set out 18 questions and statements about Caledonian 
and the relationship with Options and invited recipients of the email to please provide 
answers to the following where you can.
On 30 April 2013 another member of the compliance team inserted her answers and 
comments:
Overview of business
Date relationship commenced: April/May 2012
What is the agreed profile of clients introduced by Caledonian: Ex Armed Forces, 
Approx age 38, working in the Close protection industry (security), earnings of 
Approx £70k
Number of clients introduced: 497 (363 now invested, 134 ongoing)
Value of investments held: £16mNature of investments, i.e. any alternative investments: Friends Provident Int. 
(Funds) or, James Brearley Investment Platform with Creechurch acting as DFM.
Number of complaints from Caledonian introduced clients: None
How many transfers were also accompanied by a TVAS [Transfer Value Analysis]? 
Who has provided the TVAS? 37  Only TVs over £100k (from Armed Forces 
Pension) or any amount no matter how small on other TVs. TVAS provided by [Mr P] 
(Creechurch)
Overview of Caledonian
What due diligence was undertaken on Caledonian prior to establishing the 
relationship?  Unknown but AML was received
Location of head office: Geneva, Switzerland
Do they have a business address in the UK? They confirm that they do not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK, however they have a business address for 
correspondence and [Mr C] is based in the UK 
Where do they meet with clients, i.e. in the UK? Unknown.
What is Caledonian's regulatory status, i.e. are they regulated in their home 
jurisdiction? [Mr C] - The Chartered Insurance Institute - ID Number XXXXX. [Mr C] 
certifies all ID and signs the investment Application Form.
Are they regulated to provide advice in their home jurisdiction? Unknown
They have confirmed that they provide advice in Jordan. How does this work? Do 
they have a place of business in Jordan? Do they need to be regulated in Jordan to 
provide advice? Unknown - Caledonian provide a Non Solicitation Letter which is 
sent to Friends Provident with the investment App. A copy of a Non Solicitation Letter 
is attached
How did we establish Caledonians knowledge of SIPPs and UK pension rules? 
Unknown
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
Yes due to illustrations
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? Caledonian send to 
us the Friends Provident Investment Applications with the Application to set up the 
SIPP. The funds table in the investment App is pre-populated by Caledonian. The 
Member does see a copy of this document - which we send to them prior to investing 
their funds.
What due diligence did we undertake on Creechurch Capital? Unknown
A further reply was made later on 30 April 2013 by Options CEO. She wrote:
To add to [Options employees] information. I attach a business profile which details 
how the relationship emerged with Caledonian which provides background 
information, also the process notes that were agreed at a meeting held in our old MK offices which was a workshop to present our SIPP proposition and understand their 
business better In answer to some of [Options employees] unknowns
Where do they meet with clients? Generally abroad depending on where their next 
assignment is, they will also hold meetings in the UK
Are they regulated to give advice in their home jurisdication (sic)? No because they 
are not regulated they are introducers of business
They have confirmed they give advice in Jordan? When they mean advice they are 
talking about consultancy they are not regulated in any jurisdication (sic)
How did we establish their knowledge of UK Pension and SIPP marketplace? By 
meeting with them twice and by running a workshop for them output from which is 
attached
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? I 
am not sure it is our place to comment on this maybe on the information but not on 
advice, if we commented on whether we thought even our regulated advisers were 
providing poor advice I would probably think we would say yes. Think we need to be 
careful what questions we are looking to answer comfortable on the information piece 
but not on the advice piece
Do Caledonian provide advice on investments within the SIPP? No they don't, they 
consult with the client on the feasibility of transferring their Armed Forces Pension 
Scheme into a SIPP and their partner to manage the investment is Creechurch 
Capital
On 10 May 2013 Options CEO sent Caledonian an email requesting further information. The 
email confirmed Options was reviewing its terms of business in light of recent 
announcements from the FCA and our internal compliance reviews. Options made clear it 
was keen to continue doing business with Caledonian but must do so in a framework that is 
robust and compliant and will satisfy the regulators. The email continued, so we must start 
with ensuring we understand each stage of the process, to enable us to develop a robust 
and compliant process for this business moving forward. Options said that as a starting 
point it would like Caledonian to clarify a number of issues. The email read:
1. Can you provide your organisational structure and the jurisdiction in which each is 
registered and the regulation/regulator that each company operates within. If you are 
relying on any exemptions please state which exemptions and the reasons you 
believe you can operate within those exemptions
2. Are you giving advice and if so in what capacity and under what regulatory 
environment are you providing this advice.
3. What offices do you have and where, do the jurisdictions in which you have offices 
have a regulatory regime, if so can you provide details of the regulators in those 
jurisdictions.
4. On what basis are you providing illustrations and the reasons for this basis
5. Do you meet all your clients in Jordan, if not why do your Non Solicitation forms 
signed by yourself confirm the advice was given in Jordan6. Please confirm the profile of your clients
7. Please confirm how you receive introductions to your clients
8. Can you update information about your team their background, expertise in 
dealing with pensions
9. On the Non Solicitation letters you note that Caledonian does not have a 
permanent place of business in the UK. However, you request correspondence to be 
sent to The Pensions Service Centre, [UK city]. Please can you clarify Caledonian's 
presence in the UK and the nature of the office in [UK city].
The email closed with a reminder to Caledonian that from 1 May 2013 Options had 
implemented some changes to its requirements and must have a UK FCA regulated adviser 
providing the TVAS and the sign off for the suitability of transfers from occupational schemes 
of any values.
Options says that the last introduction made to it by Caledonian was on 20 May 2013.
On 23 May 2013 Options met with Mr P of Creechurch and Mr C of Caledonian. In the 
handwritten summary of that meeting the following was noted:
Mr C was a consultant to armed forces and not an adviser in the FCA sense.
The [UK City] address was a postal address and not a working office.
Mr C met with clients in the UK but initial contact was abroad. The client contacts 
Caledonian if they want to transfer their pension (it was noted that the documents 
said that he met them in Jordan and that FPI need a letter about where advice was 
given).
Caledonians website didnt mention that it would give advice, and their documents 
made it clear no advice was given and clients should take advice from a regulated 
adviser.
Mr P explained that the reason for lots of transfers was the market and their 
relationship with the providers.
The proposal going forward involved an appointed representative of a Manchester 
IFA being a pension specialist of Creechurch  it had the necessary qualifications. 
Going forward the Manchester IFA would deal with business.
Options agreed to allow Caledonian a four-week window to put the proposal in place.
The question about advice was irrelevant to Options as no advice is given  FPI want 
a letter about advice but no advice is given.
Caledonian said its illustrations were provided to facilitate the business. Options 
queried whether this was advice.
A question was noted  is there a terms of business for Caledonian with client?
I have not seen evidence that any of the agreed actions were completed.
Options has provided a copy of a document titled Caledonian Relationship Review 2013. This explained:
We have decided to review our relationship and terms of business for a connection 
named Caledonian who provides new business applications to our firm. The reason 
for the review has been driven by the following:
1. % of schemes from this introducer in relation to new business volumes has 
increased in proportion to other new business being received
2. % of schemes in relation to our overall schemes total has increased
3. They have recently changed their investment partner
4. They have also started introducing business which does not match their original 
profile of client.
The review has taken the following approach:
1. A detailed review of the documentation we receive
2. A review of the process they adopt when talking to the clients
3. A number of phone calls
4. A meeting
5. A request for additional Information
6. Internal meetings with our Compliance Officer
The objectives of the review were:
1. To determine whether we continue to receive on-going new business from them 
within their current modus operandi and
2. To determine whether we would continue to receive on-going new business if an 
alternative approach to introducing business were adopted.
This short paper documents the review and includes the compliance officers 
comments and position on the relationship today and going forward, the paper is 
submitted to the Executive to consider and to direct the business whether the 
relationship today and going forward is an acceptable relationship to accept business 
from.
The document went on to describe the original rationale for accepting business from 
Caledonian by repeating the information from the business profile completed in March 2012. 
It then described the updated position under the heading Where we are today. It read:
The FCA have issued a number of alerts which has prompted a review of business 
relationships.
We are now less comfortable with receiving this type of business on an execution 
only basis.
The % of business being received is increasing in terms of our overall exposure 
against any other introducer of business and also against the overall volume of new business being received on a daily basis, which is a potential increase in risk.
The majority of members introduced still match the original profile of client  
however there are some that don't.
They are now using a DFM regulated in IOM Creechurch Capital which uses the 
platform/custodian of James Brearley a FCA UK regulated entity for managing the 
investments; this is seen as an improvement in terms of investments as it reduces 
the overall costs to the clients. The James Brearley agreements were checked by a 
UK law firm and the technical and compliance officers of the firm.
Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were raised 
regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through an 
unregulated entity.
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case.
We have insisted that they move to a model that all cases are fully advised by an 
FCA regulated firm/individual, which has been accepted.
We have continued to take business on in the interim on the basis that within 4 
weeks (which ends on week ending 14th June 2013) that they would have the fully 
regulated process in place and that they have committed to a review of the back 
book of clients by the regulated firm/individual as a remedial project.
Following a meeting in the Milton Keynes office  where [Mr C] from Caledonian, 
and [Mr P] of Creechurch Capital explained their current process and documentation 
and described their future process, [and] further discussions  it was decided that 
they had not satisfied us enough with their current processes for us to continue to 
allow taking on new business in the interim without the use of a UK regulated firm or 
individual who was suitably qualified.
[Options] has instructed the team of this decision so from week beginning 28th May 
any new business received will be rejected unless it comes through an FCA 
regulated firm.
It set out a detailed process and highlighted the benefits of this new approach as being:
All schemes are coming in on an advised basis
Brings the process and clients into the UK regulated process
Brings the clients into the FSCS and FOS protections
Ensures all occupational schemes undergo analysis and advice
I have not seen evidence that this advised or regulated process described ever came to 
pass insofar as any applications made by Caledonian.
Our investigators view
Mr W brought his complaint to this service in 2019 and it was considered by an investigator. 
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary:He accepted that Options wasnt under any obligation to advise Mr W on the SIPP 
and/or the underlying investment, and wasnt responsible for assessing the suitability 
of any advice Mr W may have received.
He said he needed to determine whether Options acted fairly and reasonably when 
accepting Mr Ws application from Caledonian.
He acknowledged that Options did undertake some due diligence, but he concluded 
that Options ought to have done more at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian 
and did not, in any event, draw fair and reasonable conclusions from the information 
available to it by the time of Mr Ws application.
He said based on what it knew or ought to have known, Options should have 
concluded that it should not accept Mr Ws application from Caledonian.
He said Options ought to have concluded at the outset of its relationship with 
Caledonian that Caledonian would be giving advice. And, based on the information 
available to it before the conclusion of Mr Ws application, Options should have been 
reasonably aware Caledonian was giving advice.
He found that the available evidence indicates advice was given by Caledonian to 
Mr W and that Options knew, or ought reasonably to have been aware, advice had 
been given.
He said it was reasonably clear from the outset that Caledonian would be giving 
advice on the merits of transferring out of the Armed Forces scheme, on Options 
SIPP and on the investments to be made within that SIPP  the business model 
described an advice process and should have led to Options asking further 
questions.
He noted that when Options did start asking questions of Caledonians activities, 
questions which he said it should have asked at the outset of, or very early in, its 
relationship with Caledonian, this effectively led to the conclusion that advice was 
being given by Caledonian and the end of their relationship.
He said that Options didnt appear, prior to May 2013, to clearly establish where 
Caledonian would be conducting business and so didnt know whether Caledonian 
was following any applicable laws or regulations.
He said Options should have been alive to the risk that Caledonian might be 
undertaking regulated activities in the UK. It is clear Caledonian did assist in the 
completion of the SIPP application form for onward investment in the FPI bond in the 
UK  Options should have been aware a regulated activity had been undertaken by 
Caledonian in the UK even if it accepted the advice had been given overseas.
Options didnt check that Caledonian had the required authority to give advice in the 
relevant country.
Given the complexities of transferring out of a defined benefit scheme into a UK SIPP 
for investment in several investments Options should have satisfied itself that 
Caledonian had the appropriate qualifications to give advice. Advisers without 
appropriate qualifications risk consumer detriment.
The customer profile was such that Caledonian should have recognized applicants 
would be reliant on Caledonians advice.Advice on these complex transactions is tightly regulated in the UK  Options, acting 
fairly and reasonably, should have satisfied itself that a similar process was being 
followed, even if the advice was being given outside the UK.
Options should have concluded by the time of Mr Ws application (July 2012) that 
Caledonian did not have a process in place which supported suitable advice being 
given or ensured consumers were fully informed of the risks.
Options should also have considered, and been concerned by, the volume of 
business being brought about by Caledonian, the high number of introductions from 
occupational pension schemes when the starting point is to assume that a transfer 
out of such schemes will not be suitable for retail customers (COBS 19.1.6G), the 
very high level of commission being taken by Caledonian (typically 7% as set out in 
the Non-Regulated Introducer Profile), and the fact that Caledonian failed to provide 
copies of its company accounts despite repeated requests.
Individually and cumulatively the evidence indicated a high risk of consumer 
detriment, and Options ought reasonably to have concluded that it should not accept 
business from Caledonian and declined to accept Mr Ws application to open a SIPP.
Although the investment  the FPI bond  may not have been a cause for concern, 
Options should have had concerns about Caledonians business model and that it 
could lead to consumer detriment.
Whilst the declaration that Mr W signed did give clear warnings, he shouldnt have 
reached the point of signing it as the business shouldnt have come about at all. It 
was also signed on the basis that Mr Ws had received full and appropriate advice 
from Caledonian International  something which Options should have been aware 
Caledonian did not have competency to give.
Finally, our investigator set out how Options should put things right by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr W would have been in if he had not transferred from the Armed 
Forces Pension Scheme, and paying him compensation. Our investigator also 
recommended Options pay Mr W £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused by their 
failure to act fairly and reasonably.
Options response to our investigators view
Options disagreed with our approach to what its responsibilities and obligations are when 
accepting new business. I have summarised below what I consider to be the key points, but 
have considered Options response in its entirety. Options said:
Its not fair or reasonable to consider the complaint in the context of guidance 
published after the events complained of  the FCAs guidance published in October 
2013 and the Dear CEO letter published in 2014 introduced new expectations.
The investigator concluded that Caledonian provided advice to Mr W without any 
exploration of the law and application of the Regulated Activity Order as considered 
by the Court of Appeal in Adams v Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA 
Civ 474 (Adams).
At the material time the FSA regarded Options approach to accepting business from 
unregulated introducers as acceptable  there was no duty on Options to assess 
introducers or investments.The investigator had placed the liability for Mr Ws losses on Options by the device 
of retrospectively imposing new and unexpected duties of due diligence on 
introducers and investments  the effect is to force SIPP providers into a position of 
underwriting the performance of investments.
The judge in Adams rejected the proposition that Options owed duties of the kinds 
relied on by the investigator.
The criticisms made of Options due diligence on Caledonian are unfounded.
Options decision to require that members had the protections of a regulated advisor 
being involved was a broader policy decision made by Options in February 2014, not 
a decision made in response to what it knew of Caledonians practices. Likewise, its 
decision in August 2014 to no longer accept non-regulated introducer business was 
not about Caledonian specifically.
Options did not at any point become aware that Caledonian were providing advice, 
nor has it seen any evidence that advice was provided.
As an execution-only SIPP provider, Options was under no regulatory obligation to 
assess the suitability of the investment for Mr W.
The investigator did not ask Mr W about his understanding of the investment and 
relationship with Options.
Assessing the quality of the FPI investment, assessing the suitability of the 
investment for Mr W, or refusing Mr Ws instructions would have been inconsistent 
with the terms of the contract between the parties, the relevant COBS Rules and the 
restrictions on Options permissions.
It is unfair to make an execution-only SIPP provider liable for the poor investment 
choices of consumers, especially when theyve signed contractual documentation 
declaring that they understand they are not receiving advice and are establishing the 
SIPP on an execution only basis.
Options did not cause Mr Ws loss  had Options informed Mr W that it would not 
accept business from Caledonian, on balance Mr W would have gone ahead with the 
FPI investment  it is evident that Mr W wished to transfer his pension, whether 
through Options or another provider.
Any compensation awarded, if at all, should be limited to the commission and advisor 
fee which was paid to Caledonian.
Mr Ws request to transfer their defined benefit pension was sent on or around 
26 July 2012  once the transfer request was made, Options was obliged to complete 
the transfer and so the loss of defined benefits was assured from that point.
Mr W should bear some responsibility for his decisions, and this should be reflected 
in the calculation of any compensation due.
The investment performed within a range of outcomes which Mr W could have 
foreseen  it is plainly not fair or reasonable for Options to bear Mr Ws loss in 
circumstances where the investment simply did not perform as Mr W had hoped.
In the event that the Ombudsman concludes that Mr W should be put back in the position he would have been in had he not transferred his existing pensions, then 
Options would accept that the correct basis for calculating the compensation is as set 
out in the investigators view under the headings Calculate the loss Mr W has 
suffered as a result of making the transfer and Pay compensation to Mr W for loss 
he has suffered calculated in (1), in accordance with the judgment of the Court of 
Appeal in Adams.
In the event that Mr W is unable to return the investments to Options, the 
compensation should be recalculated to reflect this.
The investigator provided no evidence to support their claim that Mr W has suffered 
any degree of upset.
Oral exploration of; the extent of Caledonians role in Mr Ws decisions, his 
understanding of the investment and roles of FPI and Options, and his motivation for 
entering into the transaction with Options, is required. Options therefore requested an 
oral hearing.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator did and for broadly the 
same reasons, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do so, Ill set out 
what I think about Options request for an oral hearing.
Options request for an oral hearing
Options say an oral hearing is necessary to explore the extent of Caledonians role, Mr Ws 
understanding of the investment and the roles played by the parties, and Mr Ws motivation 
for entering into the transaction.
The Ombudsman Service provides a scheme under which certain disputes may be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality (section 225 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 
2000 (FSMA)). DISP 3.5.5R of the FCA Dispute Resolution rules provides the following:
If the Ombudsman considers that the complaint can be fairly determined without 
convening a hearing, he will determine the complaint. If not, he will invite the parties 
to take part in a hearing. A hearing may be held by any means which the 
Ombudsman considers appropriate in the circumstances, including by telephone. No 
hearing will be held after the Ombudsman has determined the complaint.
Given my statutory duty under FSMA to resolve complaints quickly and with minimum 
formality, I am satisfied that it would not normally be necessary for me to hold a hearing in 
most cases (see the Court of Appeals decision in R (Heather Moor & Edgecomb Ltd) v 
Financial Ombudsman Service [2008] EWCA Civ 642).
The key question for me to consider when deciding whether a hearing should be held is 
whether or not the complaint can be fairly determined without convening a hearing.
We do not operate in the same way as the Courts. Unlike a Court, we have the power to 
carry out our own investigation. And the rules (DISP 3.5.8R) mean I, as the ombudsman determining this complaint, am able to decide the issues on which evidence is required and 
how that evidence should be presented. I am not restricted to oral cross-examination to 
further explore or test points.
If I decide particular information is required to decide a complaint fairly, in most 
circumstances we are able to request this information from either party to the complaint, or 
even from a third party. In this case, our investigator sought some further information from 
Mr W, and he referred to what he considered to be the key points in his view. Options has 
had the opportunity to consider, and comment, on that view.
I have carefully considered the submissions Options has made. However, I think I am able to 
fairly determine this complaint without convening a hearing. In this case, I am satisfied I have 
sufficient information to make a fair and reasonable decision. So, I do not consider a hearing 
 or any further investigation by other means  is required. The key question is whether 
Options should have accepted Mr Ws application at all. Mr Ws understanding of the 
investment, the relationships involved, and his motivation are secondary to this. And I am, in 
any event, able to test this to the extent I think necessary by asking questions of Mr W in 
writing.
In any event  and I make this point only for completeness  even if I were to invite the 
parties to participate in a hearing, that would not be an opportunity for Options to cross-
examine Mr W as a witness. Our hearings do not follow the same format as a Court. We are 
inquisitorial in nature and not adversarial. And, the purpose of any hearing would be solely 
for the ombudsman to obtain further information from the parties that they require in order to 
fairly determine the complaint. The parties would not usually be allowed direct questioning or 
cross-examination of the other party to the complaint.
As I am satisfied it is not necessary for me to hold an oral hearing, I will now turn to 
considering the merits of Mr Ws complaint.
The relevant considerations
Im required to determine this complaint by reference to what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. When considering what is fair and 
reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and regulations; regulators' 
rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to 
have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
With that in mind Ill start by setting out what I have identified as the relevant considerations 
to deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
The Principles
In my view, the FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance to my decision. 
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). And, I consider that the Principles relevant to this complaint include Principles 2, 3 
and 6 which say:
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly.
I have carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J held that it would be a breach of statutory duty if I 
were to reach a view on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in deciding 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878 (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and had not treated 
its client fairly.
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA adopted a similar approach to the 
application of the Principles in BBSAL. The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of 
the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and the approach an ombudsman is to 
take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in the Berkeley Burke case 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which I 
have described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant 
time as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. So, the 
Principles are a relevant consideration here and I will consider them in the specific 
circumstances of this complaint.
The Adams court cases and COBS 2.1.1R
I confirm I have taken account of the judgment of the High Court in the case of Adams v 
Options SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch) and the Court of Appeal judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. I note the Supreme Court 
refused Options permission to appeal the Court of Appeal judgment.
Ive considered whether these judgments mean that the Principles should not be taken into 
account in deciding this case. And, I am of the view they do not. In the High Court case, HHJ 
Dight did not consider the application of the Principles and they did not form part of the 
pleadings submitted by Mr Adams. One of the main reasons why HHJ Dight found that the 
judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL was not of direct relevance to the case before him was 
because the specific regulatory provisions which the learned judge in Berkeley Burke was 
asked to consider are not those which have formed the basis of the claimants case before 
me. Likewise, the Principles were not considered by the Court of Appeal. So, the Adams 
judgments say nothing about the application of the FCAs Principles to the ombudsmans 
consideration of a complaint.
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles and 
that this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams pleaded that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R, a breach of which, he argued, 
was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight rejected 
this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on the facts 
of Mr Adams case.Although the Court of Appeal ultimately overturned HHJ Dights judgment, it rejected that 
part of Mr Adams appeal that related to HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS claim on the 
basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically different to that found 
in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams appeal did not so much 
represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had dismissed the COBS claim, 
but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.
I note that HHJ Dight found that the factual context of a case would inform the extent of the 
duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at para 148:
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction.
The facts in Mr Ws case are very different from those in Adams. There are also significant 
differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged by Mr Adams and the issues in 
Mr Ws complaint. The breaches were summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal 
judgment. In particular, HHJ Dight considered the contractual relationship between the 
parties in the context of Mr Adams pleaded breaches of COBS 2.1.1R that happened after 
the contract was entered into. In Mr Ws complaint, I am considering whether Options ought 
to have identified that the introductions from Caledonian involved a risk of consumer 
detriment and, if so, whether it ought to have ceased accepting introductions from 
Caledonian prior to entering into a contract with Mr W.
On this point, I think it is also important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by 
reference to what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
And, in doing that, I am required to take into account relevant considerations which include: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. 
This is a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and the judgments in 
both Adams cases. That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings in Mr 
Adams statement of case.
To be clear, I have proceeded on the understanding Options was not obliged  and not able 
 to give advice to Mr W on the suitability of its SIPP or the FPI investment for him 
personally. But I am satisfied Options obligations included deciding whether to accept 
particular investments into its SIPP and/or whether to accept introductions of business from 
particular businesses. And this is consistent with Options own understanding of its 
obligations at the relevant time. As noted above, the Options Non-Regulated Introducer 
Profile completed at the start of Options relationship with Caledonian began:
As an FSA regulated pensions company we are required to carry out due diligence 
as best practice on unregulated introducer firms looking to introduce clients to us to 
gain some insight into the business they carry out 
Regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) has issued a number of publications which remind 
SIPP operators of their obligations and set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 thematic review reports.The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
I have set out below what I consider to be the key parts of the publications (although I have 
considered them in their entirety).
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement:
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, 
are bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due 
regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are 
obliged to ensure the fair treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a 
member of a pension scheme is a client for COBS purposes, and Customer in 
terms of Principle 6 includes clients.
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF consumer outcomes.
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP 
advice given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP 
operators cannot absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect 
them to have procedures and controls, and to be gathering and analysing 
management information, enabling them to identify possible instances of financial 
crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable SIPPs. Such instances could then 
be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by contacting the member to 
confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and asking for 
clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate the SIPPs that are unsuitable or 
detrimental to clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and 
inadequate to the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of 
poor advice and/or potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and 
circumstances of individual cases, we may take enforcement action against SIPP 
operators who do not safeguard their clients interests in this respect, with reference 
to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken 
from examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to 
firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that 
advise clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the 
appropriate permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms 
clients, and that they do not appear on the FSA website listing warning 
notices.
Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP 
investment) and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that 
give advice and introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable 
SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, 
together with the intermediary that introduced the business. This would 
enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their 
adviser, if it is concerned about the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the 
intermediary giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for 
advice, having this information would enhance the firms understanding of its 
clients, making the facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed 
disclaimers taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering 
and analysing data regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the 
reasons for this.
The later publications
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA states:
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms 
further guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or 
amended requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a 
requirement in April 2007.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include 
the following:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its 
approved persons are on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and 
have a clear disciplinary history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA 
website listings for unauthorised business warnings.
Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm.
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the 
firm, what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the 
levels of business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments 
they recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that 
they are appropriate to deal with.Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which 
may be illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for 
example from the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns.
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights 
and the reasons for this.
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice 
given, as a SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP 
business it administers. Examples of good practice we have identified include:
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the 
information they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, 
is authentic and meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder 
money
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships 
and clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from 
nonregulated introducers
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their 
business with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct 
and retain appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and 
monitoring introducers as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for 
personal pension schemes) to help them justify their business decisions. In doing this 
SIPP operators should consider:
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by 
HMRC, or where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is 
informed and the tax charge paid
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the 
processes that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the 
members and the scheme
having checks which may include, but are not limited to:
oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, 
qualifications and skills to introduce different types of business to the 
firm, and
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House 
records, identifying connected parties and visiting introducers
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been independently produced and verified
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of 
benchmarks, or minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum 
standard the firm is prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or 
accept investments, and
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a 
firm to decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations 
such as instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may 
breach HMRC tax relievable investments and non-standard investments that 
have not been approved by the firm
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply and an 
indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator might 
reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
I acknowledge that the 2009 report (and the 2012 report and the Dear CEO letter) are not 
formal guidance (whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, I am of the view the fact 
that the reports and Dear CEO letter did not constitute formal (i.e. statutory) guidance does 
not mean their importance or relevance should be underestimated. The publications provide 
a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are an indication of the kinds of 
things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its customers fairly and to produce 
the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, these publications also go some 
way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice at the relevant time. I am 
therefore satisfied it is appropriate to take them into account.
It is relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. And the 
judge in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman.
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I do not think the fact the publications, (other than 
the 2009 Thematic Review Report), post-date the events that took place in relation to Mr Ws 
complaint, mean that the examples of good practice they provide were not good practice at 
the time of the relevant events. Although the later publications were published after the 
events subject to this complaint, the Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did 
the obligation to act in accordance with the Principles.
It is also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, it is clear the standards 
themselves had not changed.
The later publications were published after the events subject to this complaint, but the 
Principles that underpin them existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance 
with those Principles. I note that HHJ Dight in the Adams case did not consider the 2012 
thematic review, 2013 SIPP operator guidance and 2014 Dear CEO letter to be of 
relevance to his consideration of Mr Adams claim. But it does not follow that those 
publications are irrelevant to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I am required to take into account good industry practice at 
the relevant time. And, as mentioned, the publications indicate what I consider amounts to 
good industry practice at the relevant time.That doesnt mean that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I will only consider 
Options actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and guidance 
gave non-exhaustive examples of good industry practice. They did not say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances.
To be clear, I do not say the Principles or the publications obliged Options to ensure the 
pension transfer was suitable for Mr W. It is accepted Options was not required to give 
advice to Mr W, and could not give advice. And I accept the publications do not alter the 
meaning of, or the scope of, the Principles. But they are evidence of what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time, which would bring about the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles.
I would also add, that even if I took the view that any publications or guidance that post-
dated the events subject of this complaint do not help to clarify the type of good industry 
practice that existed at the relevant time (which I dont), that does not alter my view on what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. That is because I find that the 2009 
report together with the Principles provide a very clear indication of what Options could and 
should have done to comply with its regulatory obligations that existed at the relevant time 
before accepting any introduction from Caledonian, setting up the SIPP and facilitating the 
pension transfer into the SIPP.
Ultimately, in determining this complaint, I need to consider whether Options complied with 
its regulatory obligations as set out by the Principles to act with due skill, care and diligence, 
to take reasonable care to organise its business affairs responsibly and effectively, to pay 
due regards to the interests of its customers, to treat them fairly, and to act honestly, fairly 
and professionally. And, in doing that, Im looking to the Principles and the publications listed 
above to provide an indication of what Options could have done to comply with its regulatory 
obligations.
What did Options obligations mean in practice?
Ive set out above in some detail what I consider to be the considerations relevant to 
determining this complaint, and Ill start explaining my decision by saying what I think these 
meant in practice.
As part of meeting its regulatory obligations as a SIPP operator Im satisfied that Options 
would need to decide whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of 
business. The regulatory publications Ive cited above make it clear that good practice 
involves SIPP operators being satisfied that a particular introducer is appropriate to deal 
with, and that a particular investment is an appropriate one for a SIPP.
Im also satisfied that to meet its obligations Options was required to consider whether to 
accept or reject a particular referral of business with the Principles in mind.
Summary of my decision
Taking into account the evidence of Options relationship with Caledonian, mentioned above, 
I have considered what due diligence Options ought to have undertaken and what it ought to 
have concluded about Caledonians business.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report dealt specifically with the relationships between SIPP 
operators and introducers or intermediaries. And it gave non-exhaustive examples of good 
practice. In my view, to meet these standards, and its regulatory obligations, set by the Principles, Options ought to have identified a significant risk of consumer detriment arising 
from the business model Caledonian described to it at the outset. And so, Options ought to 
have ensured it thought very carefully about accepting applications from Caledonian.
I think its fair and reasonable to say that Options should have obtained a full understanding 
of Caledonians business model and put in place a clear agreement with Caledonian 
addressing the risk generally posed to consumers by the introducer.
Although I think Options understood and accepted it had a responsibility to carry out due 
diligence on Caledonian (the opening statement of its Non-Regulated Introducer Profile 
indicates this), I do not think it identified as it should have several issues which ought to have 
given it cause for concern until it was too late and it had already accepted Mr Ws 
application.
Whilst I accept Options did take some steps which could be argued did amount to good 
practice consistent with its regulatory obligations I think, with its regulatory obligations and 
good industry practice in mind, Options ought to have done more at the outset of its 
relationship with Caledonian and did not, in any event, draw fair and reasonable conclusions 
from the information available to it by the time of Mr Ws application. And, had Options done 
more at the outset and/or drawn fair and reasonable conclusions from what it knew, it ought 
in my view to have concluded that it should not accept Mr Ws application from Caledonian.
What activities did Caledonian undertake and what should Options have concluded?
Advice
In my view, acting fairly and reasonably, including a reasonable level of investigation and 
due diligence on Caledonians operation, and based on the information available to it, 
Options ought to have concluded at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian and 
certainly before the conclusion of Mr Ws application, that Caledonian was providing advice 
as to the benefits of transferring his pension out of the Armed Forces Pension scheme, 
transferring into the SIPP, and making the investment within it.
At the very least there was information that should have caused it to suspect that advice was 
being given and it should have carried out further investigation into that. If it had done so, I 
believe it likely that it would have discovered that Mr W had been advised by Caledonian to 
transfer his pension into the SIPP and make the FPI investment.
Taking account of the available evidence I consider that Caledonian did provide advice to 
Mr W as to the benefits of transferring his pension, selecting the Options SIPP and investing 
in the FPI bond.
Mr Ws own account of events, which is evidence that I take into account, is that he and 
colleagues were approached by a representative of Caledonian whilst he was working 
abroad in July 2012, and that the representative told [him] that [he] should transfer his 
Armed Forces Pension into an Options SIPP and invest in a Friends Provident International 
(FPI) bond as it would outperform his Armed Forces Pension. He says he was told that his 
pension would grow with Options rather than being frozen.
Indeed, the paperwork supports that he was given advice. As Ive noted in the background 
above, an Armed Forces Pension Scheme Analysis was prepared by Caledonian for Mr W 
which compared the current benefits of an Armed Forces Pension and the benefits of 
transferring it. Although the disclaimer on the front of the document claimed the content 
wasnt advice I dont think thats conclusive. I think its more likely than not that the 
Caledonian representative used this document in their meetings with Mr W to support a recommendation that he should transfer out. The evidence is that the Caledonian 
representative presented themselves as an Adviser to Mr W. As Ive highlighted above, the 
Caledonian representatives signature was made in the space for Adviser Name on the 
instruction letter accompanying the SIPP application form. And Mr W signed the declaration 
which included:
I confirm that I have received full and appropriate advice from Caledonian 
International and following this advice I wish to proceed with the transfer.
Options has told us that it did not at any point become aware that Caledonian were providing 
advice, nor has it seen any evidence that advice was provided. Options has highlighted that 
Caledonian signed its Terms of Business undertaking not to provide advice, and that on the 
application form Mr W signed to confirm that he was a client establishing a SIPP without 
advice who had made this decision independently and was aware of the implications of 
this decision.
However, I dont think Options position is consistent with the other documentary evidence. 
As Ive already noted, the Caledonian representative signed as Adviser, and Mr W signed 
to confirm he had received advice.
As a minimum these contradictions should have alerted Options to the possibility that Mr W 
might have been given advice  and therefore further steps to clarify this were required.
Its also relevant that it would be quite unusual for an individual such as Mr W, with no 
particular financial understanding or background, to want to carry out what is quite a 
complex transfer of occupational pension scheme benefits without receiving a 
recommendation to do so or advice to do so. I think this fact, along with what else they knew, 
should have alerted Options to the significant risk that Mr W was being advised by an 
unregulated business. Had Options sought clarification from Mr W, which would have been a 
reasonable course of action in the circumstances, I think it would likely have been made 
aware he had received advice from Caledonian. In his responses to us Mr W has said, I 
thought Caledonian were legitimate advisers.
The available evidence also shows that Options should have concluded at the start of its 
relationship with Caledonian that it might be providing advice, to customers like Mr W. I think 
it was reasonably clear in March 2012 that Caledonians business model meant there was a 
risk that advice would be given on the merits of transferring out of the Armed Forces Pension 
scheme, on the Options SIPP and on the investments to be made within that SIPP.
On the documentation recording Options first meeting with Caledonian, Mr C was described 
as preferred adviser (my emphasis) for the Armed Forces occupational pension scheme 
and as a consultant to these clients who advised them on their armed forces transfers 
only and was putting them into an international Friends Provident Bond. The Non-
Regulated Introducer Profile signed and dated in March 2012 also described Caledonians 
sales process as:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
I think this develops a picture of an advice process taking place, not simple introductions. It 
indicates that Caledonian was advising consumers on transfers out of the Armed Forces 
Pension scheme and putting them into an investment bond. I think the only reasonable 
conclusion which could be drawn from that description was that advice was likely being 
given.
At the very least this should have led to further questions being asked by Options of Caledonian and Mr W. In terms of Mr W, a reasonable line of enquiry would have been to 
ask him if he thought he was receiving advice as to whether to set up a SIPP and/or transfer 
his pension benefits to it and/or then make subsequent investments within the SIPP. And I 
think answers to those questions would have led to the conclusion that advice was being 
given.
I note that once an Options employee became increasingly concerned by their business 
practices in April 2013, Options asked a number of questions of Caledonian by email on 
10 May 2013. These questions, which Ive reproduced above, in my view, clearly indicate 
that Options werent satisfied that Caledonian werent advising SIPP applicants.
Although we havent been provided with a copy of Caledonians response to this email, a 
discussion of Caledonians responses to these questions led Options to conclude:
Following a detailed review of the process and documentation concerns were raised 
regarding whether the clients could be deemed to be receiving advice through an 
unregulated entity.
Following a request for further clarification on these points we have not been able to 
satisfy ourselves that this is not the case.
This effectively ended Options relationship with Caledonian.
In my view these are investigations and questions, which Options, acting fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good practice at the time, ought to have 
been undertaking or asking at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian.
The need to ask these questions was clear based on the information available to Options 
before Mr W was introduced to it in July 2012. Options clearly had its own concerns about 
Caledonians operation in 2013  and this was something that it should and could have 
explored and interrogated much earlier and certainly before accepting Mr Ws introduction. If 
Options had carried out a reasonable level of due diligence and investigation at the outset 
then I think it would have reached the same conclusion as it did in May 2013  that any 
application received would be rejected unless it came through an FCA regulated firm. It 
follows that Mr Ws application would not have been accepted and so there would never 
have been a contract between Mr W and Options.
I believe that Caledonian was providing advice, and Options knowledge of that, whether 
acquired at the outset of the relationship with Caledonian or before or during the course of 
Mr Ws application, should have been a red flag and given Options significant cause for 
concern. There was, I think, an obvious risk that the law, regulations and Principles were 
being breached, and that representatives without the necessary qualifications were giving 
advice, outside a recognised and regulated advice process. There was also an obvious risk 
of detriment to clients from giving up defined pension benefits.
I think these are all things which, acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations and good industry practice, Options should have factored into its thinking.
Arranging
It is also clear from what Options was told by Caledonian at the outset  and from the 
available evidence in this complaint and others like it  that Caledonian was heavily involved 
in the arrangement of pension transfers and subsequent investments. Caledonians level of 
involvement was not simply that of introducer. It did not introduce Mr W to Options and 
leave him to proceed with the SIPP and FPI applications. It was involved in arranging the transfer out of Mr Ws existing pension to the SIPP, the setting up of the SIPP and in 
arranging the FPI bond and associated investments. It was involved in gathering all the 
information and documents needed for things to proceed  that is clear from the checklist 
included with the paperwork sent to Options. And it seems it partly completed the SIPP 
application form for Mr W, and sent all the required information, forms, documents etc to all 
the parties involved, and dealt with any queries arising from these.
I think Options ought to have been aware of this. The extent of Caledonians involvement 
was clear from the application documentation Caledonian sent to Options.
Where were the activities taking place?
I have not seen evidence that, prior to May 2013, Options established where Caledonian 
would be conducting business. It was therefore in no position to know what, if any, regulatory 
regimes applied. Indeed, Options noted in 2013 that, as to the questions of where 
Caledonian was meeting with clients and its regulatory status, the position was, unknown.
At the start of Options relationship with Caledonian it was recorded that its clients, were 
generally still resident in UK but some were now living abroad in various countries such as 
Thailand, Germany, Spain etc. The Non-Regulated Introducer Profile completed at the 
outset of the relationship records that Caledonian had branches in Chile, Peru, Columbia, 
Argentina, Brazil and Switzerland.
So, it is fair to say Options was not in a position to know whether Caledonian was following 
any applicable regulations and laws as it simply didnt know where it was carrying out its 
activities or, at the very least, was aware the activities were potentially being carried out in 
several different jurisdictions. And then it did not take sufficient steps to ascertain what 
regulations and laws applied in each of those countries and whether Caledonian was acting 
within them.
I think Options should have been particularly concerned about whether advice was being 
given (or any other regulated activity carried on) in the UK as Caledonian was not authorised 
by the FSA or, later, the FCA. Although Caledonian told Options that the Majority of their 
business was carried out in unregulated jurisdictions Options was also made aware that 
generally consumers who would be introduced to it were still UK residents. So, I dont think 
it was clear how the Caledonian business model worked logistically, and I think this is 
something Options ought to have satisfied itself of before accepting Caledonians business.
In Mr Ws case, although his permanent address was in the UK in 2012, hes told us his only 
meetings with the Caledonian representative were at, or local to, his place of work in the 
Middle East. He had two in-person meetings with Caledonian which seems to follow the 
business model it described:
Referral  Visit  Analysis  Visit
So, it seems unlikely that Caledonian carried out regulated activities in the UK in relation to 
Mr Ws case. However, that does not mean that, in the interests of its customer, Options 
shouldnt have taken steps to establish the regulatory regime or regimes Caledonian were 
operating under. I think its also fair to say that in relation to other applications, from 
customers other than Mr W, Options ought to have been aware that regulated activities were 
taking place in the UK. And if Options had developed that awareness, as I believe it should 
have, through taking appropriate steps at the start of its relationship with Caledonian, it is 
more likely than not it either wouldnt have entered into a relationship with Caledonian at all, 
or would have ended its relationship with Caledonian before accepting Mr Ws application.As Ive noted above, Options had sight of numerous examples of a Certificate of Non-
Solicitation signed on behalf of Caledonian and addressed to FPI. Although Ive not seen 
evidence it saw one of these in Mr Ws case, I think the content of these certificates should 
have raised questions more generally. The certificate said in each instance (as far as Im 
aware) that, The advice was given in Jordan.
I think its fair to say the picture about where Caledonian was doing business was far from 
clear  and Options should have been aware it was unlikely all of the information provided by 
Caledonian could be correct. It is not, for example, clear how the advice in every instance 
could have been given in Jordan when, by Caledonians own account, it had a number of 
offices around the world (none of which were in Jordan), was dealing with consumers who 
were generally still resident in UK or living abroad in various countries and said elsewhere 
that it was carrying out business in various jurisdictions.
Options did not however check any of this at the outset. It was therefore in no position to 
know what, if any, regulatory regimes applied, and whether Caledonian required any 
authorisations to conduct the activities it did. Caledonian itself appears to have suggested it 
needed licences in some jurisdictions, but I have seen no evidence of it having given 
details of any such licences.
Despite this, I have seen no evidence to show Options identified this risk until around March 
2013 when it noted that it hadnt seen any regulatory information or permissions, had No 
details of how advice given and wasnt sure where Caledonians business was conducted.
When it finally challenged Caledonian on this point (amongst others) in May 2013, these 
enquiries (along with the other points of query put to Caledonian and then discussed with it) 
led to Options quickly concluding it should not accept further applications from Caledonian 
unless they came through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a 
restriction which, it seems, had the effect of no further business being introduced to it by 
Caledonian.
Given what I say above, acting fairly and reasonably, Options should have made these 
enquiries at the outset. Had it done so; I think its fair to say Options would have reached the 
same conclusion it did in May 2013. And it certainly should have done so, to act fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and standards of good practice.
Caledonians competence to undertake pension transfers
Caledonians proposed business model involved former members of the armed forces who, 
it said, worked in security related jobs in dangerous areas. The business model was not one 
involving, say, former financial advisers or other finance professionals. There is, therefore, 
no reason to think that the typical client Caledonian was proposing to introduce to Options 
had a good level of understanding of pensions or were in a position to work out for 
themselves if a pension transfer was in their best interests. They would be reliant on 
Caledonians advice.
The introductions, which Options knew were intended to number around 50 a month, 
involved transfers out of a defined benefit pension scheme into a UK SIPP for investment in 
several investments within an FPI bond. The transfer of defined benefit (final salary) 
pensions are usually not in the customers best interests, are complex and present a variety 
of consequences and matters which the ordinary individual would be hard pressed to 
understand without professional financial advice. Those giving such advice in the UK are 
required by the FCA to pass specialist exams, reflecting the risks and complexities involved. 
Options, as a provider of SIPPs, would have been aware of this.However, the information Caledonian disclosed to Options revealed that it didnt have any 
particular qualifications or expertise in pension transfers. There is no mention of any type of 
professional qualification (whether that be in the UK or any other territorial jurisdiction) 
relating to pensions.
I have seen no evidence to show Options noted this obvious risk until it reviewed its 
relationship with Caledonian in or around March 2013 and Professional Qualification was 
assessed as high risk. The reason for this assessment was No qualifications documented 
other than meeting notes from March 2012 where [Mr C] stated he was a qualified 
accountant and member of Chartered Institute of Accountants.
Although the undated Overseas Introducer Assessment Proforma more likely than not post-
dates Mr Ws application, it demonstrates that Options did not know if any of Caledonians 
staff had any qualifications to give advice on occupational pension scheme transfers at the 
time it accepted Mr Ws application (July 2012). I have seen no evidence Options took any 
action about this until 26 April 2013 when it was asked How did we establish Caledonians 
knowledge of SIPPs and UK pension rules?. The answer to this was recorded as 
Unknown  I assume because Options could find no evidence to show it had addressed 
this risk either. The most Options had done before May 2013 to establish Caledonians 
competence was meet with Caledonian twice and run a workshop.
So, Options was aware that Caledonians employees didnt likely have any qualifications to 
give advice as to pensions. And it seems that any steps to ascertain whether any 
qualifications were held would have revealed they were not. The steps taken in May 2013 
where Options belatedly made enquiries of Caledonian, which as outlined above I think it 
should have actioned much earlier and certainly before accepting Mr Ws application, led to 
Options quickly concluding it should not accept further applications from Caledonian unless 
they came through a UK IFA with permissions to give pension transfer advice  a restriction 
which had the effect of no further business being introduced by Caledonian.
Again, I think it fair to say Options would have reached the same conclusion had it taken this 
action at the outset of its relationship with Caledonian. And acting fairly and reasonably to 
meet its regulatory obligations and good practice, I think Options should have concluded at 
the outset of its relationship with Caledonian or at the very least by the time of Mr Ws 
application, that Caledonian was proposing to give advice to bring about a large volume of 
business relating to a complex product for which it didnt have the appropriate qualifications.
The transfer process
As mentioned above, a defined benefit transfer is a complex transaction. It also involves 
many risks, and potentially the loss of significant guaranteed benefits. For this reason, 
advice on such transactions is tightly regulated in the UK and there are standards of good 
practice that those giving the advice are expected to follow. This means several steps need 
to be taken as part of the advice process and documentation such as fact-finds, suitability 
reports, transfer analysis reports (TVAS), and illustrations generally feature in the advice 
process. The purpose is to ensure any advice given takes into account all relevant factors, is 
suitable, and the recipient of the advice is in a fully informed position, where they understand 
the benefits they are giving up and the risks associated with the transfer.
Although the relevant UK regulatory requirements only apply in the UK, I think Options, 
acting fairly and reasonably, should have satisfied itself that a similar process was being 
followed here, even if the advice was being given outside the UK. I say this because, given 
that Caledonians starting point appears to have been that the consumers it dealt with would 
be transferring out of the defined benefit scheme (i.e. it seems to have taken the view a 
transfer was suitable for all) there was a clear risk of consumer detriment if consumers were not in a fully informed position and therefore able to understand the risks associated with the 
transfer.
I do not say Options should have checked any advice that was given  but it should have 
taken steps to ascertain if a reasonable process was in place and consumers were taking 
these steps on an informed basis. And I think if it had undertaken such steps and carried out 
even a cursory investigation of the individuals being introduced to it, then it would have 
become aware no reasonable process was in place and consumers were not fully informed 
of the risks. As discussed, I think it would have also quickly discovered that at least some of 
the individuals being introduced to it, including Mr W, had received what amounted to advice 
about the transfer from an unregulated introducer.
Had Options taken steps to ascertain if a reasonable process was in place it would have 
become aware no such process was in place, and consumers were not therefore fully 
informed before agreeing to make the transfer to the SIPP and the associated FPI bond 
investments. Options reference to Illustrations made in response to the list of questions 
circulated by email by the Options Compliance Officer on 26 April 2013 appears to be an 
acknowledgement of this risk:
Based on our contact with Caledonian and reviewing the illustrations they provide to 
clients, do we have concerns that Caledonian is providing poor advice/ information? 
Yes due to illustrations
It seems Options took these steps, to an extent, belatedly in May 2013. And, in common with 
the other steps taken in May 2013 that appears to have led it to the conclusion that what was 
in place was not sufficient. However, acting fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory 
obligations and good practice, Options should have concluded at the outset of its 
relationship with Caledonian or at the very least by the time of Mr Ws application that there 
was a significant risk of consumer detriment, that Caledonian did not have a process in place 
which supported suitable advice being given or that ensured consumers were fully informed 
of the risks.
Volume of business
At the outset of the relationship between Options and Caledonian, Options was told that 
Caledonian would be introducing about 50 applications a month (and I note a similar volume 
was introduced, once the relationship began).
I think, acting fairly and reasonably, Options should have been concerned that Caledonian 
intended to (and did) make such a high volume of introductions, relating only to occupational 
pension schemes. In my view this was a further reason for Options to conclude there was a 
significant risk of consumer detriment  particularly when considered alongside the other 
points I have set out here.
Firstly, it is not clear how Caledonian would be, or was, bringing about such a high volume of 
applications without giving advice. I think Options should have recognised it as highly 
unlikely Caledonian could bring about this amount of applications without influencing 
consumers actions through a positive recommendation. Options also ought to have 
considered Caledonians competence to deal with this volume of transfers  there is no 
evidence to show it had the significant resources this would require.
Further, Options, as a professional entity in the pensions industry, should have been aware 
of the very low likelihood the transfers would all be suitable. At the outset of Options 
relationship with Caledonian (and at the time of Mr Ws application) COBS 19.1.6 G said:When advising a retail client who is, or eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits 
occupational pension scheme whether to transfer or opt out, a firm should start by 
assuming that a transfer or opt out will not be suitable (my emphasis). A firm should 
only then consider a transfer or opt out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence that the transfer or opt out is in the clients best interest.
I accept this aims to define the expectation of a regulated financial adviser when determining 
suitability of a pension transfer, but it emphasises the regulators concern about the potential 
detriment such a transaction could expose a consumer to. And, being a regulated firm with a 
requirement to ensure its clients were being treated fairly, Id expect Options to have been 
familiar with the guidance contained in COBS  even if it didnt apply to it.
Caledonians business model, as set out to Options, appears to run counter to this, insofar 
as the starting point appeared to be an assumption that the transfer was suitable. When 
considered alongside the high volume of business being brought about by Caledonian, 
Options, acting fairly and reasonably, should have identified a significant risk of consumer 
detriment.
Options ought to have been aware that the introduction of such a large volume of 
applications for pension transfers (an estimated 50 a month), including Mr Ws application, 
on a non-advised basis was unusual and interrogated further. I think Options should have 
been concerned about the motivations and competence of Caledonian, and have had 
adequate risk management controls in place to have allowed it to conclude very quickly that 
there was a high probability that much, if not all, of the business introduced by Caledonian 
(which was transfers from occupational pension schemes) carried with it a high risk of 
significant consumer detriment.
Commission
I also think the level of commission that was being paid to Caledonian should have given 
Options cause for concern.
It appears Caledonian was typically taking around 7% of the transfer amount in commission, 
and Options was told this was the case at the outset of its relationship. There is no evidence 
to show Caledonian carried out any of the usual work associated with a defined benefit 
transfer that would justify such a fee. Nor have I seen any other evidence to show there was 
any justification for such a high level of commission in the circumstances. I think this level of 
commission ought to have been another cause for Options to be concerned that Caledonian 
was putting its own interests ahead of the interests of consumers, including Mr W. And, of 
course, it was further reason to consider Caledonian might be giving advice, as commission 
at this level would have been very likely to motivate it to encourage consumers to proceed, 
through a positive recommendation.
Overall, when considered alongside the high volumes of near identical introductions of 
business being made by Caledonian, I think this level of commission raises questions about 
the motives and role of Caledonian.
Caledonians Accounts
I note that Options made repeated requests for Caledonian's accounts. It sent several emails 
to Caledonian between March and August 2012. Options also explained in its email of 
23 March 2012 that in order to comply with its own compliance procedures this was needed.
On 27 April 2012 Options started accepting introductions from Caledonian having not 
received its company accounts nor the certified passports of all its directors  seemingly in breach of its own procedures. Indeed, recognising that this was still needed, yet outstanding, 
this information was requested from Caledonian again on 1 August 2012, ahead of a 
compliance audit. And despite Mr C twice giving reassurances that the requested documents 
would be sent forthwith I have not seen any evidence the accounts were ever provided.
The undated document, but likely to have been completed around March 2013 - the 
Overseas Introducer Assessment Proforma - set out that Options had noted that 
Caledonian had no UK branch or EEA regulatory details and it could not discover how long it 
had been trading. It also noted that it still hadnt received any accounts from Caledonian.
In my opinion, it is fair and reasonable that Options should have met its own standards and 
should have checked Caledonians accounts at the outset before accepting any business 
from it. And, based on Caledonians conduct, it seems very unlikely accounts would ever 
have been forthcoming.
Caledonians reluctance to provide basic information should also have been a further factor 
which ought to have led Options to question whether it should enter into or continue a 
relationship with Caledonian. It calls into question the competence and motivations of 
Caledonian and the ability of Caledonian to organise its affairs. It also meant Options was 
missing information which might be critical to the decision as to whether to enter into 
business with Caledonian. It is not clear why Options accepted introductions without it.
It is notable that Options accepted and set up Mr Ws SIPP when it was still waiting for this 
information from Caledonian.
In conclusion
Taking all of the above into consideration  individually and cumulatively  I think in the 
circumstances it is fair and reasonable for me to conclude that Options ought reasonably to 
have concluded, had it complied with its regulatory obligations which required it to conduct 
sufficient due diligence on Caledonian before accepting business from it and to act on 
information received about the conduct of Caledonian before continuing to accept business 
from it, that it should not accept business from Caledonian, including Mr Ws application. 
I therefore conclude that it is fair and reasonable in the circumstances to say that Options 
should not have accepted Mr Ws application from Caledonian.
Did Options act fairly and reasonably in proceeding with Mr Ws instructions?
In my view, for the reasons given, Options simply should have refused to accept Mr Ws 
application. So, things should not have got beyond that. However, for completeness, I have 
considered whether it was fair and reasonable for Options to proceed with Mr Ws 
application.
I acknowledge Mr W signed an Options declaration on 11 July 2012. I note this document 
does give warnings about the loss of benefits that would result in the transfer to the SIPP. 
And the indemnities sought to confirm that Mr W would not hold Options responsible for any 
losses resulting from the investments. However, I dont think this document demonstrates 
Options acted fairly and reasonably by proceeding with Mr Ws instructions.
Asking Mr W to sign a declaration absolving Options of all its responsibilities when it ought to 
have known that Mr Ws dealings with Caledonian were putting him at significant risk was 
not the fair and reasonable thing to do. Also, asking Mr W to sign declarations was not an 
effective way for Options to meet its regulatory obligations, given the concerns Options 
ought to have identified about his introduction. So, it was not fair and reasonable to proceed, 
on the basis of these. I make this point only for completion  the primary point is Mr W should simply not have been able to proceed, as his application should simply not have been 
accepted.
What would have happened if Options had refused Mr Ws application?
In response to the investigators view Options have said it is evident that Mr W wished to 
transfer his pension, whether through Options or another provider, and so he would have 
gone ahead with the FPI investment even if Options had declined his SIPP application.
I have seen no evidence to suggest that Mr W would have gone ahead even if Options had 
rejected his application. He was approached by Caledonian  which was consistent with its 
business model of contacting ex-servicemen and encouraging them to consider transferring 
out of their pensions  and hes told us that his wasnt interested in transferring out of the 
Armed Forces Pension scheme before the Caledonian representative advised him to do so. 
Nor was he interested in the FPI bond until the Caledonian representative told him it was 
the best for him. Ive seen no evidence to contradict what Mr W has said about this and I 
dont agree with Options that, outside of Caledonians influence, Mr W was keen to transfer 
his pension.
In any event, I have not seen any evidence that any other SIPP operator dealt with 
Caledonian. And any operator acting fairly and reasonably should, I think, have reached the 
conclusion it should not deal with Caledonian. I do not think it would be fair to say Mr W 
should not be compensated based on speculation that another SIPP operator might have 
made the same mistakes as Options did.
For similar reasons, I am not persuaded Mr W should not be compensated by Options, or his 
compensation should be reduced, because I have not made the finding the FPI bond 
investment, in itself, was not something Options should have accepted. Or because the 
benefits from Mr Ws existing pension were lost once the transfer request was made. If 
Options had acted fairly and reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations and good industry 
practice, the application would not have proceeded at all. So, no transfer request or FPI 
bond investment would have been made. Caledonian was clearly reliant on Options to 
facilitate things  but for Options acceptance of the application, Mr Ws business would not 
have been able to proceed.
So, I am satisfied that Options failure to comply with its regulatory obligations and industry 
best practice at the relevant time have led to Mr W suffering a significant loss to his pension. 
And my aim is therefore to return Mr W to the pension position he would now be in but for 
Options failings.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr W to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Options failure to carry out adequate due diligence checks before accepting his SIPP 
application.
In light of my above findings, in my view Options should calculate fair compensation by 
comparing the current position to the position Mr W would be in if he had not transferred 
from his existing pension. In summary, Options should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr W has suffered as a result of making the transfer.
2. Take ownership of any investments which cant be surrendered, if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Ws pension.  If that is not possible pay compensation for the loss to Mr W direct. In either case the payment should take into 
account necessary adjustments set out below.
4. Pay £500 to Mr W for the distress and inconvenience caused by Options acceptance 
of his SIPP application.
Ill explain how Options should carry out the calculation set out at 1-3 above in further detail 
below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr W has suffered as a result of making the transfer (the loss 
calculation)
Options should calculate redress for Mr Ws Armed Forces pension in line with The FCAs 
pension review guidance in October 2017 (https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/finalised- 
guidance/fg17-9.pdf) using the most recent financial assumptions published.
2. Take ownership of any investments held within the SIPP which cannot be 
surrendered
In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment(s) 
need(s) to be removed from the SIPP. To do this, Options should calculate an amount it is 
willing to accept as a commercial value for any investments that cannot be surrendered and 
pay that sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the relevant investments. This amount 
should be taken into account for the loss calculation.
If Options is unwilling or unable to purchase the investment(s) the value of them should be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation if the investments are not readily 
realisable (or for any portion of the investments which is not readily realisable).
I appreciate such investments may have a realisable value in the future. So, for any 
investments assumed to be nil value Options may ask Mr W to provide an undertaking to 
account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive from those 
investment(s) in the future. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr W may receive from the investment(s) and any eventual sums he 
would be able to access. Options should meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
If Options does not take ownership of the investment(s), and it/they continue to be held in 
Mr Ws SIPP, there will be ongoing fees in relation to the administration of that SIPP. Mr W 
would not be responsible for those fees if Options had not accepted the transfer of his 
occupational pension into the SIPP. So, I think it is fair and reasonable for Options to waive 
any SIPP fees until such a time as Mr W can dispose of the investment(s) and close the 
SIPP.
3. Pay compensation to Mr W for loss he has suffered calculated in (1).
Since the loss Mr W has suffered is within his pension it is right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if that is possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into his SIPP. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the pension should allow for 
the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean the compensation should 
be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow for the income tax relief 
Mr W could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ws marginal rate 
of tax.
On the other hand, Options may not be able to pay the compensation into the SIPP. If so compensation for the loss should be paid to Mr W direct. But had it been possible to pay the 
compensation into the pension, it would have provided a taxable income.
Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to Mr W should be reduced to notionally allow 
for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should be 
calculated using Mr Ws marginal rate of tax in retirement. For example, if Mr W is likely to 
be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the notional allowance would equate to a reduction in 
the total amount equivalent to the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr W would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the notional allowance should be applied to 75% of 
the total amount.
If Options believes other parties to be wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it is free to 
pursue those other parties. So, compensation payable to Mr W should be contingent on the 
assignment by him to Options of any rights of action he may have against other parties in 
relation to his transfer to the SIPP and the investments.
4. Pay £500 for the trouble and upset caused
Mr W transferred his pension away from a valuable defined benefits pension to a SIPP and 
has had to suffer the loss of those benefits. These circumstances would have been avoided 
if Options had done what it should have done and declined the introduction of Mr Ws 
business from Caledonian. Options failure has, I believe, caused Mr W considerable 
distress, upset and worry. So, I consider that a payment of £500 is appropriate to 
compensate for the distress and inconvenience Options actions caused.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr W 
within 90 days of the date Options receives notification of his acceptance of my final 
decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Options to pay Mr W this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial 
business of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/interest on costs that I think are 
appropriate. If I think that fair compensation is more than £150,000, I may recommend that 
the business pays the balance.
I do not know what award the above calculation might produce in Mr Ws case. So, whilst I 
acknowledge that the value of Mr Ws original investment was around £20,000, for 
completeness I have included information below about what ought to happen if fair 
compensation amounted to more than our award limit.
Decision and award: I uphold the complaint. I think that fair compensation should be 
calculated as shown above. My decision is that Options UK Personal Pensions LLP should 
pay Mr W the amount produced by that calculation  up to a maximum of £150,000  plus 
£500 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience Options actions caused and interest 
at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement 
for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Options to pay Mr W this compensation.Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation is more 
than £150,000, I recommend that Options pays Mr W the balance. This recommendation is 
not part of my determination or award. Options doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its 
unlikely that Mr W can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr W may 
want to get independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right Options UK Personal 
Pensions LLP should calculate and pay Mr W the award set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 August 2022.
 
Beth Wilcox
Ombudsman