DRN-2384286
The complaint
The complaint arises out of mortgage advice Mr M sought from Mortgage Marketplace Ltd 
(MML). He was looking to arrange three mortgages; two were for the acquisition of two 
buy-to-let (BTL) properties and the third was a re-mortgage of his own home to provide the 
deposit money for the BTL purchases. 
The transactions didnt go ahead because Mr Ms home was a right-to-buy (RTB) purchase 
from his local authority at a substantial discount and he wasnt allowed to re-mortgage it for 
capital raising purposes. Mr M says MML should have realised this before he incurred 
non-refundable broker fees and conveyancing charges.
What happened
By way of a provisional decision last month, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which I 
intended to determine the complaint. The following is an extract from that provisional 
decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
This complaint is more straightforward than its been made to look. Comments MML has 
made about Mr M pulling out of the BTL purchases due to concerns about cladding are 
irrelevant. None of these transactions should ever have progressed as far as they did.
MML was aware from the outset that Mr Ms home was an RTB. It also knew  because it 
was captured on the fact-find  that Mr M was still within the pre-emption period; that is, the 
period during which the local authority holds a second charge over the property as security 
for the discount. Its the mechanism that enables the local authority to claim back a portion of 
the discount in the event the property is re-sold during the (typically) first five years after the 
purchase.
Its the norm in such arrangements for there to be restrictions on borrowing more money. 
MML has said Mr M was unaware of this and therefore couldnt have informed it if it had 
asked him the question. I find that a specious argument. If MML had asked Mr M about the 
terms of his RTB agreement and hed answered that he didnt know, then Id expect MML to 
have said, in effect, please find out before we go any further. Anything less than that was, 
in my view, a failing on MMLs part. 
I have to say, I think MML did have some inkling that there might be a problem, because the 
fact-find notes that a copy of Mr Ms contract with his local authority had been requested. Its 
reasonable to conclude that a copy of the contract wasnt forthcoming, but in that event, 
MML should have insisted and made it very clear that the matter should not proceed (and no 
non-refundable costs be incurred) until the position had been checked and clarified. 
MML was the expert in this situation, and by allowing Mr M to progress to the point where 
three mortgage offers had been issued by his prospective lender, and solicitors had begun 
work on the conveyancing, it quite simply let Mr M down. But for MMLs failure, Mr M need 
not have incurred any of the costs hes now claiming back, and that is why MML must make 
good his loss.
In that context, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator. However, as I 
intend adding detail to the proposed redress that was missing from the investigators opinion, 
my decision is provisional and all parties have the opportunity to make further submissions 
before I formalise it.
I went on to order MML, provisionally, to:
refund all fees and charges Mr M paid it in connection with the three aborted 
transactions;
reimburse all fees and charges Mr M paid to the conveyancing solicitor in connection 
with the three aborted transactions;
pay Mr M interest at 8%* on each refunded amount from the date it was paid up to the 
eventual date of settlement. To assist with that, I ask Mr M in his response to the 
provisional decision, to provide an itemised list of the costs he incurred and documented 
evidence (for example, a bank statement) showing the amount and date of each 
payment; and
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the time, trouble and upset caused by having been 
allowed to pursue an entirely abortive enterprise.
*If MML considered that basic rate income tax should be deducted from the interest element 
of my award, it may do so provided it furnishes Mr M with the relevant tax certificate.
Mr M replied accepting my provisional decision, and providing an itemised list of the costs he 
was claiming. Weve shared that list with MML under cover of an email from the investigator. 
I reproduce the list below:
MML fees
12/04/2019 - £191.75
31/05/2019 - £191.75
03/07/2019 - £191.75
10/07/2019 - £321.75
01/08/2019 - £659.93
MML total fees - £1556.93
Conveyancing solicitor fees
06/06/2019 -   £75.00
06/06/2019 - £360.00
03/07/2019 - £360.00
Conveyancing solicitor total fees - £795
TOTAL fees paid by Mr M - £2351.93.
Mr M also included his own calculations of the 8% interest payable on the above sums. Ive 
not reproduced those figures here; they were calculated to 27 November 2020, the date for 
the parties to reply to the provisional decision. My provisional award was that interest be 
calculated up to the eventual date of settlement of the complaint, which hasnt happened yet.Despite reminders, weve not heard from MML.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive no reason to depart from my provisional conclusions, so I dont.
My final decision
For all of the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint against Mortgage Marketplace 
Ltd. In full and final settlement, I order Mortgage Marketplace Ltd to:
refund all fees and charges Mr M paid it, as detailed above, in connection with the three 
aborted transactions;
reimburse all fees and charges Mr M paid to the conveyancing solicitor, as detailed 
above, in connection with the three aborted transactions;
pay Mr M interest at 8%* on each refunded amount from the date it was paid up to the 
eventual date of settlement; and
pay Mr M £150 compensation for the time, trouble and upset caused by having been 
allowed to pursue an entirely abortive enterprise.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
*If MML considered that basic rate income tax should be deducted from the interest element 
of my award, it may do so provided it furnishes Mr M with the relevant tax certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman