DRN-1963502
 
The complaint
Mr J complains that Metro Bank PLC blocked his account when he tried to pay a large 
amount of money into it.
What happened
Mr J told us that Metro blocked his account when he tried to pay in a large amount of money. 
He said this caused him serious problems. He said he had to cancel a holiday, and borrow 
money from friends and family to get by. 
Mr J received a payment on 21 June 2019, of a little over £3,000. This came from a small 
savings bond provider, which has an account with a high street bank. Metro said that this 
payment was flagged by its security team, and it placed a restriction on Mr Js account. 
On 5 July, Mr J went to a branch of Metro with a letter from the bond provider, telling him 
how to cash his bond. Metro said it couldnt accept this as evidence of where the money had 
come from, so it would have to ask the sending bank about the payment. 
Mr J complained on 11 July. Metro said it couldnt release the money then, and told Mr J it 
was entitled to do this under the terms of the account.  It then said that it had chased the 
sending bank, and received no reply, so on 9 August, Metro decided to release the money to 
Mr J. Metro didnt think it had done anything wrong.
Mr J really thought that this all shouldve been sorted out quickly, because the payment was 
from a recognised financial institution. So he couldnt understand why it took Metro so long 
to decide that the payment wasnt suspicious. He thought the problem was discrimination.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She said it wasnt 
unreasonable for Metro to have stopped Mr Js account for an unusual, large transaction. 
She said the evidence Mr J provided didnt show that he had cashed the bond, just that he 
was thinking of doing this. And fraudulent payments are often sent via regulated financial 
businesses, although in this case there was no suggestion the payment did actually turn out 
to be fraudulent. 
Our investigator thought the bank had acted within a reasonable timeframe. And she didnt 
think this had been a result of discrimination. She said Metro had only given Mr J a limited 
amount of information, but that wasnt unreasonable when a large transaction is being 
verified. 
Mr J didnt agree. He said that his account was blocked between 26 June and 9 August. He 
thought that was an unreasonable time for someone to go without access to their money. Mr 
J said if Metro wasnt going to accept the proof hed offered, it shouldve made that clear, not 
accepted it and placed it on file. 
Mr J said wed referred to the payment being unusual because of the amount. He wanted to 
know if there was a limit on how much could be paid into his account, or if that depended on racial profiling. He said there was no fraud, this was a straightforward transfer from one 
financial establishment to another. 
Mr J said wed said his account was reopened on 9 July, but it wasnt opened until 9 August. 
Hed been in contact with the bond provider that sent the money. And it had confirmed it had 
been in touch with the bank to verify the funds. But his account remained blocked. 
Our investigator replied, to respond to Mr Js questions. But she didnt change her mind, so 
this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
I understand that Mr Js Metro account had only recently been opened. I dont think its 
unreasonable for Metro to block an account if a relatively large amount of money is 
transferred into it, and that account hasnt been open for very long. Metro wanted to be 
sure about where the money had come from. 
I think thats why this account was blocked. I havent seen anything to make me think 
that this account was blocked for a discriminatory reason.
But I do think Metro made some mistakes in this case. Firstly, it doesnt seem to have 
suggested to Mr J that he might be able to help unblock his account, if he could 
provide more evidence of where the money came from. I dont know if it even 
considered that. I think it should have done so. 
And secondly, once Metro decided that it needed to contact the sending bank, it didnt 
do so right away. It took Metro almost a week to ask the sending bank about the 
payment. 
I dont think that its Metros fault that the sending bank didnt respond promptly to its 
enquiries about this payment. And I think that this is what caused most of the delay. 
So I think that there was always likely to have been some inconvenience to Mr J in this 
case. I wont ask Metro to pay compensation for that. 
I also note that Metro repeatedly chased the sending bank, and finally decided to take 
the initiative to release this money when it received no reply. So I can see Metro was 
trying to help Mr J.
But I do still think that it might have been possible to unblock Mr Js account earlier, if 
Metro hadnt made the mistakes Ive set out above. And I do think thats something 
Metro should pay compensation for. For those reasons, I think that Metro should now 
pay Mr J £100 in compensation. 
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side responded. 
 
 
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
My final decision
My final decision is that Metro Bank PLC must pay Mr J £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman