DRN-1880450
The complaint
P Ltd, represented by Mr H, complained about National Westminster Bank Plcs handling of 
loan arrears.
What happened
P Ltd had a £15,000 overdraft, backed by a personal guarantee from Mr H. From November 
2016, there were arrears so the account was managed by NatWests Specialised Business 
Team. The account returned to normal management in January 2017, but returned to the 
specialist team in November 2017. Mr H told NatWest that he hadnt been able to work for 
around two months because of illness. NatWest then agreed with P Ltd that the company 
overdraft would be re-financed into a loan for £13,500, with monthly repayments due at the 
end of each month. P Ltds account and the new loan account were returned to normal 
management in June 2018.
During 2018 Mr H became unwell and wasnt able to work for five months. Mr H was the sole 
fee earner, so some loan repayments were missed. He had a relapse in January 2019, and 
when he returned to work, he reduced his workload. Mr H focused on larger corporate 
clients. Hes explained that these generally paid his invoices in 60 days rather than 14 days, 
causing cashflow problems. P Ltds accounts with NatWest were returned to the Specialised 
Business Team in January 2019.
 
From early 2019, there were several conversations between Mr H and NatWest. In late 
February, Mr H confirmed that P Ltd would make the March loan repayment, and would then 
clear the arrears by the end of March. 
This didnt happen. Mr H phoned NatWest on 1 April asking why the loan repayment hadnt 
come out of the company account. The reason was that the direct debit had been cancelled 
in October, so a manual payment was needed. Mr H set up a new direct debit to start on 30 
April, and told NatWest that P Ltd would pay the arrears on 15 or 16 April. He complained 
about a number of matters, including not being able to pay into the loan account by credit 
card.
In its response to P Ltds complaint, NatWest agreed that Mr H hadnt been told about all 
payment options when hed phoned. But it pointed out that the loan account was now behind 
by five payments. It noted that P Ltd had said it would clear this in mid-April.
On 11 April, NatWest issued a formal demand notice for the arrears. Mr H rang NatWest to 
complain that the Specialised Business Team hadnt been told about the arrangement that 
arrears would be cleared by mid-April.
In its final response letter on 13 June, NatWest said that its 1 April agent had told the 
Specialised Business Team that P Ltds arrears would be cleared by 15 or 16 April. It said it 
was the later agent who might not have read the notes properly when they said this wasnt 
on file. NatWest apologised for poor customer service. But it pointed out that this wasnt a 
repayment plan, because the complaints team werent able to agree repayment plans. The 
Specialised Business Team had confirmed that there was no repayment plan set up on P 
Ltds account. 
NatWest also said that its 11 April Final Demand letter was a regulatory requirement. And it 
pointed out that Mr H had told the bank on 25 February that the arrears would be cleared in 
full by the end of March.
NatWest said that it would allow 60 days for P Ltd to clear the arrears in full, and continue to 
maintain normal monthly repayments. If this didnt happen, the accounts would be 
transferred to its Recoveries department, where legal action could be taken.
P Ltd, represented by Mr H, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. Mr H said the 
company didnt dispute the loan, or the obligation to repay it, but said hed had spells when 
he couldnt work because of illness. He wanted to discuss a workable way forward.
The investigator looked in detail at what had happened. He believed there had been times 
when NatWest didnt provide a high level of service, particularly in delays in getting back to 
Mr H. And he appreciated the difficulties resulting from Mr Hs illness. But overall, he didnt 
think NatWest had acted unfairly about P Ltds arrears. He thought it had given P Ltd fair 
opportunities to repay the arrears. P Ltd put forward further arguments, but the investigators 
view remained the same.
P Ltd, represented by Mr H, didnt accept this. Mr H said that his key concerns were what 
had happened from mid-April 2019. He said hed offered to pay by phone and email, and 
had been told not to pay until things were sorted out. Mr H named two staff whom he felt had 
particularly misled him. He asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr H has told us he had spells of ill-health when he couldnt work. Im sorry 
to hear that, and can understand that this would have badly affected P Ltd during that time, 
as he was the sole fee-earner.
The focus of P Ltds complaint is on the events in the first half of 2019, and Ive looked 
closely at what happened. In particular, Mr H has said that he made nine calls between 
January and April 2019, and followed many of these with emails. He said that hed been told 
the companys direct debits had been set up for March and April , and this wasnt correct. He 
said this employee had caused all the problem, together with another employee who 
hadnt returned his calls.
I accept that NatWest didnt always deal with P Ltds requests promptly. But I dont agree 
that the March and April direct debits failed because of NatWests employee. The banks 10 
April letter to P Ltd shows that the reason the direct debits failed was that they bounced, 
because there wasnt enough money in P Ltds account from which they were sent. It wasnt 
a problem with the setting up of the direct debit.
Mr H alleges that he made three attempts to pay, two verbal and one written, and was told 
not to until things were sorted out. But Ive seen no evidence that NatWest told Mr H not to 
make a payment.  
Certainly NatWests 10 April letter, dealing with the 1 April conversation, apologises that Mr 
H wasnt told about all the available payment methods. This letter explains that its correct that the arrears couldnt be paid by card over the phone with the business team  but the 
Specialised Business Management Team could take card payments. And payments could 
also be made by online or phone banking. 
But the failure of one of NatWests teams to give P Ltd all the options for payment in the 1 
April call, isnt the same as being told not to make a payment until things were sorted out. 
And the letter telling P Ltd how to make payments was sent on 10 April. P Ltd didnt respond 
to this by making payments by one of the alternative methods.  NatWest was still asking P 
Ltd to get in touch to agree a way forward by the time of the final response letter on 13 June. 
So Im not persuaded that this was the reason why P Ltd didnt either make payments of the 
arrears, or get in touch to make a payment arrangement.
Ultimately, I find that the reason P Ltd still had significant arrears after mid-April wasnt 
because of an employee failing to set up the direct debit, or another employee failing to 
return calls. It was because P Ltd didnt pay. 
I recognise that non-payment can sometimes be the result of financial difficulties, especially 
where a sole fee earner had had sickness. But thats not what P Ltd is saying. Its saying the 
reason was that NatWest employees set up the direct debit wrongly; told him not to pay; and 
didnt return calls. While I understand the point of view here, it still remains that P Ltd could 
have still made payments, or have come to an arrangement to make them.
Its also important to set this in context. P Ltds accounts had arrears problems between 
November 2016 and January 2017, from November 2017 to June 2018, and again from 
January 2019. This was a longer time-frame than the five months for which Mr H told us he 
couldnt work because of illness. There was already a history of arrears issues by the time 
NatWest issued the Final Demand letter, and I find that the bank acted reasonably in issuing 
it.
I understand that as at August 2020, NatWest is still awaiting P Ltds proposals for 
repayment of the debt.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold P Ltds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman