DRN-1631153
The complaint
Mr S complains that Canada Life Limited refused to pay his critical illness claim because it 
says that a policy exclusion applies.  
What happened
Mr S joined his employers group critical illness scheme on 1 September 2019 after having 
begun his employment earlier the same year. The scheme is operated by Canada Life and 
began on 1 October 2018.
Later that same month, Mr S sadly suffered a heart attack, which was found to have been 
caused by coronary artery disease. He underwent a coronary artery bypass operation in 
October 2019.   
Thereafter, Mr S made a claim to Canada Life for critical illness benefit. This was for two 
different claimable conditions, those being heart attack and undergoing coronary artery 
bypass grafting (CABG).  
In November 2019, Canada Life told Mr S that it couldnt pay his claim. It said that Mr Ss 
medical records prior to joining the group scheme showed he had suffered from diabetes 
mellitus since 2009. For each of the claimable conditions, diabetes was a related condition 
given in the policy wording exclusion. This meant that no claim could be paid within the first 
two years of joining the scheme for either condition where an entrant to the scheme already 
had a related condition  and Mr S had diabetes.
Mr S appealed the decision. He said he was particularly concerned that Canada Life hadnt 
taken the time to assess all of his medical information from his CABG procedure. He felt it 
was unreasonably disregarding the medical evidence. 
Mr S also supplied a statement from one of his treating cardiac surgeons relating to his 
diabetes, noting how neither his heart attack nor his CABG were directly caused by diabetes. 
Finally, Mr S said he wasnt given sufficient information from Canada Life when he joined the 
scheme, and for that reason he was unaware of the policy exclusion.
Canada Life wasnt willing to change its view. It said it was the related conditions exclusion 
which had resulted in the claims being declined. So, once Mr Ss medical records confirmed 
he had diabetes prior to his inclusion in the group scheme, this was sufficient to determine 
that the exclusion had to apply to the claims.
Canada Life said it did review the comments from Mr Ss consultant. But these did not 
change the outcome. In drafting the policy terms, Canada Life took the view that diabetes is 
a known risk factor for cardiovascular disease. That means that any employee (who has 
diabetes) joining the scheme will not have cover for heart attack or CABG for the first two 
years. 
Though it realised Mr S felt he wasnt given sufficient information, Canada Life explained that 
it was not responsible for the actions of Mr Ss employer. Further, with group offerings of this nature, it simply was not feasible to underwrite each individual as he or she joins the 
scheme. Group schemes therefore have exclusions for pre-existing and related conditions 
because the insurer does not have the opportunity to ask each applicant detailed questions 
beforehand.  
Mr S remained unhappy and pursued a complaint. In the interim, a further medical report 
was issued by another of Mr Ss consultant cardiac surgeons. The consultant said that it 
could not be said that Mr Ss diabetes contributed to him developing coronary artery disease. 
However, Canada Life said this did not mean that the exclusion should be disregarded. It 
was not able to change its view and therefore rejected Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S lodged the matter with this service.
Our investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. She explained that she 
believed Canada Life had fairly applied the policy exclusion for each condition. Mr S suffered 
from diabetes before he fell ill in September 2019, and she did not think it was unreasonable 
for Canada Life to have included diabetes as a related condition. She therefore thought 
Canada Life was fair to refuse the claims even if they hadnt caused Mr Ss conditions 
directly.
Mr S disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. He said that Canada 
Life wasnt treating its customers fairly. He explained that his treating consultant and his 
surgeon had both confirmed that his diabetes was not intrinsically linked to his conditions, 
and for Canada Life to suggest otherwise was unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont believe this 
complaint can succeed. I agree with our investigator that Canada Life hasnt done anything 
wrong. Ill explain why that is below. 
I was sorry to learn just how poorly Mr S has been. I realise it was important for him to hold 
critical illness cover, and why hes now naturally upset to find his employers policy had 
exclusions.
Canada Lifes relationship as an insurer is with its policyholder. That is not Mr S  that is his 
employer. Businesses (like Mr Ss employer) are able to consider what terms to offer 
members of their insurance schemes based on offerings from the group scheme insurer. So, 
the concern Mr S holds about the provision of information from his employer is not a matter I 
can address here. This complaint is limited to the claim and the actions of Canada Life as 
the insurer of the group scheme. 
As our investigator has explained, group critical illness schemes allow members to join at 
defined periods during any particular year, without prior underwriting. As such, these types of 
cover include policy exclusions and these are considered at the time a scheme member 
makes a claim.
Mr Ss policy comes with exclusions in respect of pre-existing and related conditions. This is 
both in the employee guide, and the defined policy terms and conditions. For example, the 
policy guide says:Related conditions exclusion
No benefit will be payable for an insured illness if any related condition existed at any 
time prior to entering this policy, any other critical illness policy arranged by your 
employer or the date of any increase in benefit.
If 2 years have elapsed since entering this policy, any other critical illness policy 
arranged by your employer or the date of any increase in benefit, the related condition 
exclusion will only be applied to loss of independent existence, paralysis of limbs, 
terminal illness or total permanent disability.
 
For each of the two conditions Mr S has claimed for, diabetes mellitus is expressly included 
as a related condition. Canada Life has explained this is an exhaustive list, and it will not 
meet any claims if a related condition included in the list is present before a member joins or 
amends their benefit under the group scheme. 
Mr Ss claims fell within the two-year moratorium as they were very shortly after he joined 
the scheme. The medical report supplied by his consultant of 24 October 2019 recorded his 
history of diabetes, and so Canada Life was reasonably drawn to that evidence. Its for that 
reason it hasnt gone on to complete a full claims assessment of all the medical evidence, as 
Mr S had hoped for. 
I dont consider that Canada Life was unreasonable to do this. It became clear that Mr Ss 
claims were subject to an exclusion, and therefore it would not have been fair to prolong the 
outcome for Mr S by investigating a claim further that it knew it would not be paying to him.
Its clear that the exclusion applies to Mr S. So, I dont find Canada Life has been unfair in 
applying the policy wording to Mr Ss circumstances. Nor do I think it ought to pay a claim on 
the basis hes suggested. While I appreciate that he has taken the time to seek further 
medical evidence about the link between diabetes and coronary artery disease, that isnt 
something I am able to overturn, because the exclusion merely considers diabetes to be 
related  it does not specify how direct or tied the link must be. 
That Canada Life has decided to apply an exclusion (where wider medical evidence shows 
there is some link with diabetes and coronary artery disease) is a matter of commercial 
judgement, and not something I can interfere with. These policy terms were in place before 
Mr S joined the scheme.
Though I know his treating consultants have explained that it cannot be categorically stated 
that his heart attack and requirement to undergo CABG is caused by diabetes, as I have 
stated above - the causation is not in question. What the group policy says is that a person 
who suffers from a related condition (in this case, diabetes though there are other listed 
related conditions for each critical illness) given under the policy wording cannot be paid for 
a valid claim unless more than two years have passed since the entrant joined the scheme.
Mr S was free to consider other critical illness insurance if he felt unhappy with the wording 
of the exclusions. But I dont believe they are unfair or out of step with schemes of this 
nature. It is common practice with such policies to apply exclusions to pre-existing or related 
conditions. We arent a regulator, and so its not my role to determine the fairness of that 
practice. My role is to see if Canada Life has fairly interpreted the policy terms in respect of 
Mr Ss claim. Canada Life has shown how it sent policy documentation to the employer. 
Canada Life hasnt behaved unfairly in doing so, where the employer is its policyholder.I know Mr S is unhappy about the way group policies operate. The nature of group schemes 
does contrast to individual policies, which are underwritten by insurers at the time of 
application. As I have set out earlier in this decision, because of the variable nature of 
flexible employment benefits, Canada Life doesnt underwrite each member of a 
policyholders scheme separately. It simply offers group cover to the employer as a 
policyholder.
If Mr S had sought a standalone critical illness policy, hed have been required to disclose 
his medical history. Insurers in those circumstances will then consider whether to offer cover 
for certain conditions, apply exclusions, charge a different price, or refuse to offer insurance 
altogether. That is because they are determining risk and price for insurance to cover events 
over a significant number of years. Each insurer is entitled to determine the risk it is willing to 
accept. With a group scheme, that cannot happen and consequently these wide exclusions 
are included in such policies.
As Mr S sadly had diabetes on entrance to his group scheme, the exclusions have been 
fairly applied. 
My final decision
Though I realise my decision will not be what Mr S has hoped for, I dont uphold his 
complaint. That is because Canada Life has not behaved unfairly or unreasonably in 
assessing his claim against his group scheme policy terms. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman