DRN-4500315
The complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to refund
transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
What Mr M says
Mr M explained that during a night out, he became intoxicated and early in the morning was
trying to get a taxi home. He recollects having difficulty ordering one and eventually got into
a car he thought was a taxi.
Mr Ms recollection of the events that followed are a little unclear due to his state of
intoxication, but he remembers being shouted at by the driver. Hes said the next occasion
he remembers is being in the road and awake about 4-5 hours after getting into the cab.
Mr Ms phone, jacket, watch, and drivers licence were missing, but his wallet and debit card
were still present. Mr M was able to get home after a passer-by gave him a lift and he later
reported the theft of his items to the police and notified the phone company about the loss of
his phone. It wasnt until later that day when Mr M became aware that his Halifax account
had a number of transactions present that he didnt recognise, including cash withdrawals
from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) and bank transfers made using his mobile banking
facility.
Mr M spoke with Halifax the evening of the incident and explained some of what happened.
Mr M confirmed that he hadnt told anyone else the PIN number or given permission for the
use of his account by anyone else. Mr M believed that his account had been used by third
parties without his permission whilst he was incapacitated, and theyd used his fingerprint
and control of his phone to carry these payments out, including a PIN reminder to make the
ATM withdrawals.
Mr M and Halifax spoke on a number of occasions about the incident, but Halifax declined to
make any refund, believing the evidence of the transactions indicated Mr M himself was
responsible. Mr M disagreed and made a complaint, including about the way that Halifax
dealt with him. Halifax again looked into the circumstances and believed theyd dealt with Mr
M appropriately and there was no evidence of a third party being involved, so offered no
refunds. Mr M then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an
independent review.
What Halifax say
Halifax received Mr Ms request for a refund after he notified them of the issues with his
account following a night out. Halifaxs systems identified that the payments made from the
account were done using biometric authentication (Mr Ms fingerprint), including a request on
the same morning to view the personal identification number (PIN) through the mobile
banking app.
Based on this information and Halifaxs view that Mr Ms version of events was inconsistent,
they declined to refund him and turned down his complaint.
The investigation so far
Both parties were asked to supply information about the complaint and Mr M wrote to our
service with his best recollection of what happened to him the morning of the disputed
transactions  the summary of which is set out above. Mr M believed that Halifax had
misinterpreted his situation.
Halifax provided audit data concerning the use of the card for the ATM withdrawals and the
use of Mr Ms mobile banking app on his phone to transfer funds between his accounts and
set up the outgoing payments to a new payee.
The data showed that:
The mobile app was logged into using biometrics (fingerprint).
A request was made to view the PIN (which wasnt considered unusual by Halifax).
Funds were transferred from a savings account into the current account.
A new payee was set up and authorised using the biometric data and confirmed
through additional steps using the app after a message was sent to it.
One ATM withdrawal and one large bank transfer were blocked by Halifaxs systems.

Halifax commented that Mr Ms version of events was inconsistent and coupled with a lack of
explanation how his account could have been compromised, declined him a refund. They
also remarked that Mr M hadnt called them for some hours following the realisation that hed
lost funds.
After reviewing the evidence, the investigator assigned to assess Mr Ms complaint thought
that:
It was reasonable for Halifax to process the various requests for funds because they
used the appropriate account procedures including One Time Passcodes (OTPs) and
Mr Ms biometrics.
IP address data matches with earlier use by Mr M.
Mr Ms version of events is inconsistent and cant be relied upon.
Passwords for the phone and the banking app were different meaning two sets of
data needed to be obtained in order to bypass it.
There was a PIN reminder request, but this wasnt out of the ordinary.
Mr M retained possession of his bank card.
Mr Ms complaint wasnt upheld by the investigator. Mr M disagreed with the investigators
outcome and said he was incapacitated so couldnt have agreed to these transactions at the
time. He also pointed out that whilst there were different passcodes for his phone and
banking app, they were both also accessible via biometric means.
Some discussion was held regarding the timings of certain account transfers/withdrawals
and the use of the OTPs. Mr M continued to argue that he wasnt responsible for these
transactions and asked for a further review of his complaint, which has now been passed to
me for a decision.
As part of my own investigation, enquiries were made with the investigating officer
concerning the allegation made by Mr M. The police have responded and concluded that
whilst their investigation is ongoing, they believe Mr M was the victim of a crime that morningafter he left the club whilst intoxicated.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mr Ms complaint on 17 November 2023. In 
my provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold Mr Ms complaint and offered 
both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An extract of 
that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Halifax can hold Mr M liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them.
Halifax can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr M authorised the
transactions, but Halifax cannot say that the use of the card and PIN or the use of internet
banking conclusively proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless Halifax can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Mr Ms account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to Mr M. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr M responsible for the disputed
transactions or not.
Theres no particular argument here that Mr Ms genuine debit card was used to withdraw
funds from an ATM using his PIN, also that Mr Ms mobile banking app loaded on his phone
was used to make internal transfers and bank transfers to another account, authenticated
using the biometric function set up on his account (and phone). The evidence also shows
that a PIN reminder was viewed at the time of the incident reported by Mr M.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr M denies making these transactions and believes other
parties were responsible after he was incapacitated. Halifax dont believe theres an
explanation for how the account was compromised and think that Mr Ms version of what
happened was inconsistent.
So, I need to decide what likely happened, even though I wasnt present and Mr Ms memory
of the event is patchy. If Mr M made the payments himself, then he would be liable for them,
on the other hand, if Mr M was incapacitated and couldnt make the transactions himself,
then he couldnt be held liable, and Halifax would have to refund them because they would
be unauthorised.
The circumstances detailed by Mr M show that he was incapacitated  hes also said he
was, for some period, unconscious. Whilst theres no medical report to show what caused
this condition in Mr M, I dont doubt his explanation. It could have been something he
ingested unknowingly or just over consumption of alcohol.
I understand the stance taken by Halifax on this complaint (the audit data points to Mr M
being responsible), but I dont put the same reliance on the inconsistencies as they do.
Considering Mr M was, at the very least, heavily intoxicated, Im not surprised that other
details have emerged or evolved as the various conversations were held with Halifax. I dont
think its unreasonable for someones recall under similar conditions to change somewhat.The period of incapacitation raises a difficulty when trying to understand what went on for
those hours Mr M cant recall. We know that his phone was used to access his banking app,
obtain a PIN reminder for his phone, transfer funds between accounts and set up a new
payee and make payments to them. Id argue that completing the transfers to a new payee
(who Mr M says he doesnt know and wouldnt have agreed to send funds to) at that time in
the morning when numerous ATM withdrawals have been made is untypical behaviour.
Halifax have argued theres no evidence of a compromise of Mr Ms account (because it
used the appropriate means to withdraw funds (account card & PIN) and access to the
banking app authorised by biometrics and OTPs. But, if Mr Ms version of events is to be
believed, the use of his fingerprint biometrics seems a plausible explanation for how both his
phone and the banking app were opened. Once control of the phone was obtained, the
response to any OTPs would also be realistically possible.
Ive also looked at other factors surrounding this complaint, including the report to the police
about what happened. Mr M seems to have told them generally the same version of events
provided to our service. Having obtained a response from the investigating officer, it seems
the report made by Mr M is credible and that hes considered a victim of some form of
criminal activity early that morning, although their investigation is ongoing.
My provisional decision
Taking all the evidence into account, my current thoughts are that Mr M himself didnt
complete the necessary steps to authorise the payments himself, and that others, without his
permission did so. Im currently intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Halifax to
refund all the disputed transactions.
I invited Mr M and Halifax to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. Both parties accepted my provisional decision and 
Halifax helpfully set out the redress they intend to pay to Mr M, being £2,000 for the bank 
transfer, £450 in respect of ATM withdrawals and to include 8% simple interest from the date 
of the loss to the date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and as both parties accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So, this final decision confirms the findings set out in my 
provisional decision.
Id like to thank to both parties for responding as quickly as possible to the provisional 
decision.
Putting things right
Halifax to pay Mr M £2,450 including simple interest at 8% from the date of loss to the date 
of settlement.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as 
Halifax and theyre required to settle it as outlined above.
If Halifax considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman