DRN-4351561
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (C&G) 
unfairly rejected claims under her pet insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs G made three claims to C&G after her dog was diagnosed with a cruciate injury. C&G 
declined the claims on the ground that her dog was overweight and the policy excluded 
claims resulting from her pet being overweight. Mrs G complained to C&G that her dogs 
cruciate injury hadnt been caused by her being overweight. She pointed out that the dogs 
breed, gender, age and neutering would all have been risk factors.
As C&G didnt change its decision, Mrs G brought a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. Our Investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He thought C&G 
should settle the claim and add simple interest at the rate of 8%.
As C&G didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide whether C&G has treated Mrs G fairly and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
C&G said that the evidence provided by Mrs Gs vet showed that her dogs weight played a 
critical factor in the cruciate injury. It agreed that her vet hadnt said that her pets weight was 
the cause of the injury but said that without any other cause being known, this was the most 
likely one.
Under What Is not insured in Mrs Gs policy there is an exclusion for:
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweight or underweight and this 
results in Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended medical 
weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by an independent Vet.
C&G decided that because there were references in the dogs clinical history in March 2021, 
March 2022 and March 2023 to the dog being overweight and recommendations for her to 
lose weight, this meant it was entitled to decline the claim. However, on the first claim form 
the dogs weight is recorded as 36.4kg with the ideal weight for her given as 36kg. So its not 
clear to me how overweight the dog actually was.
In order to rely on the exclusion, I think C&G must show that there was a causal relationship 
between the excess weight and the cruciate injury. This is because the wording of the 
exclusion is clear that it only applies if the treatment claimed for results from the dog being 
overweight.
C&G has produced evidence from an independent vet who reviewed the dogs clinical 
history. She said:
While she is also one of the breeds that are prone to cruciate rupture, is neutered, and is a 
large breed, which are all potential contributing factors, the additional weight she was 
carrying is certain to have contributed to the rupture of her cruciate ligament.
While being overweight will have been likely to increase the risk of cruciate injury, Im not 
persuaded C&G has shown enough to apply the exclusion in the circumstances of this case. 
So Ive concluded that C&G acted unfairly in applying the exclusion to decline Mrs Gs 
claims.
Putting things right
To put things right I think C&G should settle the claims in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy, including any limits on the cost of treatment and any policy excess 
as appropriate. C&G should also pay interest on the amount of the claims from the date that 
Mrs G paid the vets bills to the date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Casualty & General 
Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to do as set out above under Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman