DRN-2175412
The complaint
Mr H complains that Pi Financial Ltd (Pi) could have done more to prevent the loss he 
suffered due to the reduction in his pension plan transfer value. Rice & Co Financial 
Management, who advised Mr H, was the appointed representative of Pi. All references to 
Pi will include Rice & Co and its advisers.
What happened
At the end of May 2016, before his retirement date at age 65 at the end of October 2016, 
Mr H contacted Pi with the view to obtaining advice about his retirement options. He had two 
pensions with businesses Ill refer to as R and S. 
Mr Hs pension with R was an Occupational Pension Scheme (OPS) and had certain 
guaranteed benefits. A letter from R to Pi dated 20 July 2016, showed that the transfer value 
as of that date was £145,952 of which £140,580 was the cash equivalent transfer 
value (CETV) of the Guaranteed Minimum Payment (GMP) element and £5,471 was the 
non-GMP value (cash benefit). The transfer value with S, a defined contribution scheme, 
was recorded as £19,366.
The adviser met with Mr H on 14 September 2016 and a fact find was completed. Amongst 
other things, it was agreed that the adviser would obtain a full retirement pack from R. This 
was sent by R on 3 October 2016 and the total transfer value was now £151,121 which 
included CETV of £145,426 and a cash benefit of £5,613.
Mr H met with the adviser on 1 November 2016. Mr H said he wanted to maximise his tax-
free cash entitlement (TFC) as he wanted around £25,000 to £30,000 to help his daughter 
buy another home. The retirement pack from R gave Mr H four options. Under the first three 
options, Mr H could take out an annuity but only two of these three options, included any 
TFC element of either £5,613 (option one) or £3,613 (option three).
The fourth option was the transfer value option and wouldve allowed Mr H to take a higher 
TFC. But the transfer value amount wasnt guaranteed with Rs paperwork saying: "The 
above figures, which are not guaranteed, have been prepared on the best information 
available to us. In the event of a variation of more than 10% between the above figures and 
the annuity available at the time of settlement, you will be given the opportunity to reconsider 
the retirement benefit option selected."
On 29 November 2016, Mr H met with the adviser again. The advice was to transfer both of 
Mr Hs pensions with S and with R, to a Collective Retirement Account (CRA) with another 
provider. The adviser said transferring to the CRA would give Mr H access to an increased 
amount of TFC. Mr H accepted Pis recommendation. On 19 December 2016, R confirmed 
the transfer of £136,121 had been made to Mr Hs CRA, of which £130,432 was the CETV 
and £5,689 was the cash benefit. This represented less than a 10% reduction from the 
figures quoted in October 2016. The pension transfer from S had reduced by 3%. 
Mr H raised concerns with Pi about the transfer values he received, particularly from R. In 
August 2019, R wrote to Mr H about his concerns at the request of the Pi adviser to explain 
why the value had reduced. R said that because the transfer value had reduced by less than 
10%, no contact had been made with Mr H or his adviser. And that the value had reduced 
due to a fall in interest rates which had impacted on the CETV. But Mr H remained unhappy 
and he complained to Pi about this matter. In summary, he said:
Pi could have done more to prevent the reduction and warn him about this possibility;
The transfer process took too long;
Pi was unable to adequately address questions about why the value had reduced;
He questioned why the transfer value reduced more with R than with S;
The reports produced by Pi were based on incorrect figures;
The pension fund recommended has underperformed;
Review meetings were delayed despite Mr H paying a fee for this service.
Pi rejected the complaint. It said the transfer value of the OPS with R, is calculated with 
reference to annuity rates whilst Ss was based on stock market returns. So, this is why the 
level of reductions differed. It said Mr H had been made aware that the CETV wasnt 
guaranteed and itd no control over this. Pi was satisfied the transfer had been progressed in 
an orderly manner. Pi also said that if Mr H wasnt happy with the performance of the fund or 
the level of fees, it could source an alternative strategy for him which would reduce its fees.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. He thought Pi could have 
warned Mr H a bit more about the likelihood of the transfer value falling but he didnt think 
this would have made any difference to what he ultimately received. Our investigator was 
satisfied that whilst there had been some delays with the review meetings, Pi had done 
enough to put this right. He noted our service doesnt normally consider complaints solely 
about performance. In any event, he didnt think Pi had done anything wrong in this regard.
Mr H disagreed. He said Pi took too long with the transfer process and this meant he lost out 
on a higher transfer value. So, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by passing my condolences to Mr H and his family for their loss. I appreciate 
this complaint comes at a difficult time.
Having looked at everything, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why. Before I do so, 
I will just say that Ive carefully noted all the representations made by Mr H, but I wont be 
addressing every single point hes raised. Ive reviewed all the information he has sent to our 
service including the very recent communication hes had with our investigator. However, my 
decision will concentrate on the issues I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
R has explained that the drop in the transfer value, was due to rising interest rates, reducing 
the cost of the pension income and therefore, the CETV element of his pension. Ultimately 
this wasnt Pis fault and wasnt something it could have prevented beforehand. 
Mr H says Pi shouldve re-checked the value before the transfer. And that Pi needed to 
make sure its recommendation was based on accurate figures. But by the time R received 
the transfer forms on 1 December 2016, the transfer value, which was dated 3 October 
2016, was less than two months old. So, I dont think Pi was unreasonable for using the 
latest transfer figures. Pi wouldve been relying on R to let it (Pi) know about a substantial 
drop in the value. As the drop was less than 10%, R didnt inform Pi or Mr H about this.Mr H considers Pi should have done more to warn him about the drop in value. I cant see 
any notes from the Pi adviser discussing that the transfer wasnt guaranteed, but the options 
(retirement) pack from R alerted Mr H to this possibility. Mr H also says Pi wasnt able to give 
him answers to his questions about the reduction in value. But I dont think this is a question 
for Pi to answer. I can see that R has provided answers to Mr H about this issue.
Mr H says Pi unreasonably delayed the process. So, Ive considered some of the key events 
leading up to the transfer which were as follows (all in 2016):
End of May  Mr H meets with the Pi adviser and on 17 June, the adviser sent for 
information from R. R responded on 18 July noting that as it was more than three 
months before Mr Hs retirement date, it wasnt able to provide all of his retirement 
options. And on 20 July, R sent the transfer value;
14 September  Mr H met with the adviser and the fact find was completed. It was 
agreed that the adviser would send for a full retirement pack from R. The adviser 
noted that Mr H was: Looking at his retirement options open to him from [Mr Rs 
birthday]. His family wants [Mr H] to retire and he needs to know what income he is 
likely to receive from all his pension plans.
3 October  Mr Rs retirement pack was sent by R;
27 October  a pension transfer report was prepared by an agent of Pi;
1 November  Mr H met with the adviser, which was a few days after his retirement 
date. The adviser noted Further to meeting and file note 14.09.16 the client has now 
retired and wants to finalise his options surrounding his existing pensions 
arrangements. He went on to say: The client has seen from the [R] paperwork and 
the options that there is a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value of £145,426.60. He is 
keen to see whether he would be better off choosing Option 3 or 4 instead of Option 
1. He has dismissed Option 2 as he would want as much tax free cash as possible. 
11 November  a second pension transfer report was prepared;
22 November  the adviser noted that: I have discussed at length a Retirement 
Options Booklet and compared the options offered to the client by [R] and he went 
on to note: the client does not want to take an annuity. He favours the flexibility of a 
full transfer from which he can build the elements he wants. Cashflow models were 
then produced to compare an annuity offering alongside a transfer recommendation. 
29 November  a meeting was held and the recommendation was made to transfer. 
Mr H completed the transfer forms and these were received by R on 1 December. 
And on 8 December, the CRA provider sent the transfer authorisation form to R;
19 December  the transfer is completed.
Looking at this summary, whilst Mr H now says things took a long time, its clear that at the 
initial stages this was very much a fact finding process with Mr H being consulted and 
agreeing to the various steps being taken by the Pi adviser. I dont think there was anything 
to indicate that Mr H wanted to meet any specific deadline. Or that he had any concerns 
about the progress being made. Mr H was clearly carefully weighing up his options right up 
until the recommendation was made.
Further, Pi only received the full retirement pack on 3 October. The recommendations were 
made on 29 November and the transfer forms were received by R by 1 December. A transfer 
of this type is a complex process which needed careful analysis. Mr H was giving up 
valuable safeguarded benefits, so I think it was important that Pi took reasonable steps 
before making its recommendations. And I dont think the time taken, was unreasonably long 
or unusual for a transfer of this type.Mr H says hes since been told by R that the transfer value wouldve been honoured if it had 
been done within three months. Whilst this is not supported by the paperwork provided by R, 
Pi did complete the process within this timeframe. The updated transfer value was sent by R 
on 3 October and the transfer was completed on 19 December. All in all, I cant fairly say Pi 
caused unreasonable delays to this transfer process.
In terms of the performance of the funds Mr H transferred into, he has confirmed his 
complaint isnt about the suitability of this recommendation, so Ive not considered this as 
part of this decision. What Mr H does say is the fund is not performing as well as he was led 
to believe. But the documents Mr H was given which were included with the suitability report, 
did set out the key risks including that past performance was no guarantee of future results.
Mr H says theres been delays to the ongoing reviews and he feels the service given to him 
by Pi has been poor. I can see from the date of transfer in December 2016 until Mr H made 
his complaint at the end of 2019, that he had two review meetings  one in April 2019 and 
the other in February 2018. And that full review reports were sent shortly after this. I accept 
that Mr H had to chase these matters up but overall, I think he has been provided with the 
service that was agreed, albeit with some delay. If Mr H thinks there has been more service 
issues since his complaint, he will need to raise this with Pi for it to answer.
Mr H also refers to the fees and charges hes paid Pi. I can see he was told about the level 
of fees that applied from the outset, which were set out in the suitability report. In particular, 
he was told about Pis yearly charge of 1%. He was also told about the fees that applied to 
the investment fund. I dont think he was misled about these fees. I appreciate Mr H may feel 
he isnt getting value for money. But I cant fairly say Pi was wrong to take its fees given the 
reviews were ultimately undertaken.
For all these reasons, whilst I know Mr H will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman