DRN-4315538
The complaint
Mr P, who is representing P has complained that RECOGNISE BANK LIMITED has acted in 
a discriminatory way by refusing to open a savings account for P.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators findings for broadly the same reasons, I will 
explain why. 
Mr P says Recognise has discriminated and as such has breached the Equality Act 
2010 (EqA) because it declined his application to open a savings account for P. 
Its not my role to decide if the EqA has been breached as that is for a court to 
decide. However, Ive looked at whether Mr P was treated fairly when Recognise 
declined Ps application for a savings account. 
Recognise has said that it declined Mr Ps application as he didnt meet the eligibility 
criteria. As such, I have reviewed Recognises eligibility criteria. 
I am satisfied it says in order to be eligible for a business savings account, the 
business must be a sole trader, Limited Liability Partnership or Limited Company.
At the time, P was operating as an unlimited company, as such, it didnt meet the 
eligibility criteria. Therefore, Recognise declined the application in line with its 
eligibility criteria, which it is entitled to do.
Mr P hasnt presented any other evidence to suggest he was treated differently to 
any other consumer in the same position.
So, with that in mind, I cant fairly conclude that Recognise has treated Mr P unfairly 
or unreasonably. I understand that Mr P will be unhappy with this decision, but I hope 
my explanation for how I arrived at this outcome gives him some assurance the 
complaint has been considered impartially.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2023.
 
Jade Rowe
Ombudsman
