DRN-4066041
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy National Westminster Bank PLC (NatWest) will not refund the money he 
lost as the result of an investment scam.
Mr Js complaint has been brought by a representative, for ease of reading I will refer solely 
to Mr J in this decision.
What happened
Mr J has explained that in September 2022 he made four payments totalling around £1,600 
using his NatWest debit card to fund what he thought was a legitimate investment with a 
company Ill call G. He made the payments via Worldremit (money transfer service) and 
OKcoin (crypto exchange) and when he realised he lost his money to a scam, Mr J borrowed 
money from a family member to cover those losses. 
When Mr J subsequently got in touch with NatWest to explain hed been scammed, NatWest 
didnt reimburse his lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Mr J referred his complaint about 
NatWest to this service. 
NatWest highlighted a number of payments Mr J hadnt complained about and also raised a 
discrepancy in the total amount Mr J was claiming. Our investigator clarified with Mr J that he 
is only complaining about four transactions and was mistaken in the original loss he 
complained about. 
Our Investigator didnt think any of the payments were particularly unusual and so concluded 
NatWest hadnt missed an opportunity to prevent the loss. Mr J didnt agree. He felt the 
payment to OKcoin should have warranted further checks as this was a new payee and also 
a crypto exchange  which is a high risk of fraud. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its common ground that Mr J authorised the scam payments in question here. He was 
tricked by scammers into instructing NatWest to make the payments. So although Mr J didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations and the 
terms and conditions of his account, Mr J is presumed liable for his loss in the first instance. 
That said, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank to take additional steps or make additional checks before processing a payment 
to help protect its customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud and scams. But 
there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments.
In terms of prevention, given the size of the scam payments  the lowest individual payment 
being around £47 and the highest individual payment being £972  I dont think they ought to 
have been considered unusual or uncharacteristic. Mr J also made undisputed payments to 
Worldremit during the period of the scam, so I dont think the low value scam payments to 
them would have appeared unusual or suspicious to NatWest. 
In relation to the payments to OKcoin of £498 on 23 September 2022 and £972 on 26 
September 2022, I dont think these payments ought to have automatically warranted further 
checks by NatWest. I take Mr Js point that crypto scams were prevalent at the time of Mr Js 
payments (and still are). But not all payments to crypto exchanges are made as the result of 
a scam and NatWest needs to balance its obligations to monitor and detect potential fraud 
whilst also allowing customers to make payments as they wish. And sometimes, this will 
include customers making one-off payments. 
NatWests policy didnt prohibit payments to OKcoin at the time Mr J made them, so I dont 
find the payments to them were unusual or uncharacteristic enough for NatWest to 
reasonably have concluded Mr J could be falling victim to a scam. This is particularly so 
given Mr Js normal account spend which included single payments larger than the 
payments in dispute. 
And so, I dont think NatWest missed an opportunity to prevent any of Mr Js losses, so I 
dont find that it should refund him. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathy for Mr Js loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman