DRN-1963111
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy at how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) dealt with his claim 
following a water leak and the amount of compensation it has offered him.
What happened
Mr Hs home was damaged by water leaking from a pipe in a concrete floor. He contacted 
RSA in October 2017. RSA accepted the claim. There were problems from the outset with 
RSA telling Mr H the policy didnt cover costs for the leak to be located when in fact it did. 
Repairs took around 18 months to complete. This was largely due to problems drying the 
property out, with contractors disagreeing on the best method. Mr H says delays and 
problems continued through the claim and he made several complaints to RSA about them. 
Mr H felt his home wasnt habitable and requested alternative accommodation (AA). But 
RSA disagreed saying it was habitable and that drying equipment could just be moved and 
replaced if it was in the way. By March 2018 a caravan had been provided on the drive as Mr 
H wished to stay close by because of his pets, but this soon proved unsuitable. 
By June 2018, with dehumidifiers and fans failing to dry out the concrete floor adequately, it 
was decided to dig up the floor screed to speed up drying. This meant bathrooms had to be 
stripped out so longer-term AA was then agreed. But Mr H says even this was delayed due 
to problems contacting the loss adjuster once a suitable property had been found and it was 
31 August before he and his wife could move into suitable AA. 
Work was eventually completed in April 2019. Mr H complained to RSA. He said the delays 
and condition of his home had caused him and his wife stress and damaged their health. He 
also said his additional electricity costs incurred during the drying process hadnt been 
reimbursed in full.
RSA issued its final response letter in May 2019. It accepted there had been service failings 
and delays in handling the claim and apologised that Mr H and his wife were 
inconvenienced. It said it thought it had settled electricity costs fairly but if there was further 
information it would look at it. RSA agreed to waive the policy excess of £300 and have 
offered Mr H a further £1,700 for his distress and inconvenience. 
Mr H didnt think this was adequate given all the problems and inconvenience suffered over 
a long period of time. So, he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She agreed there had been many 
problems and delays and that Mr H had been inconvenienced more than he should have 
been. But she felt that the £2,000 offered by RSA was fair and reasonable compensation for 
the trouble and upset he had suffered. She also said that based on the information provided 
it appeared RSA had reimbursed Mr H fairly for the additional electricity costs. So, she didnt 
think RSA needed to do anymore.
Mr H replied giving further information about the condition of his home before AA was 
agreed and more details about the electricity costs. Our investigator reviewed these but 
didnt change her view.
As Mr H doesnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued my provisional decision on 19 May 2019. In my provisional decision, I explained the 
reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint in part. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide (provisionally) whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im planning to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. Ill explain why.
I said I understood that Mr H was very upset about the delays in getting his home repaired 
and the inconvenience this caused. Unfortunately, with escape of water claims some degree 
of distress and inconvenience is inevitable and the drying out and repairs usually take 
several months to complete. RSA wasnt to blame for the original water damage but would 
be responsible for much of what happens during the claim process. 
Mr H said he didnt consider the house habitable and has sent pictures showing the 
condition and drying equipment in place. But I thought that until the decision was made to lift 
the floors to aid drying, the house was habitable as it had running water, working bathroom 
facilities, kitchen, heating and so on. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to 
provide alternative accommodation whilst a property is still habitable even if this means 
some inconvenience whilst repairs are carried out.  
There were many problems, but the main delay was the difficulty in drying the floor, with 
expert contractors disagreeing on the best approach after the initial attempts proved 
unsuccessful. RSA involved its technical team here, so I think it acted reasonably in trying to 
solve the issue, but it accepts there were delays and has offered compensation.
I needed to consider whether the level of compensation offered for the distress and 
inconvenience suffered as a result of the delays and service failings is fair and reasonable. 
And I thought that it was. It is in line with the level of award our service would make in similar 
circumstances. The aim of any award we make is to reflect the impact the issues have had 
on the individual rather than to punish the business. As I thought this compensation was fair, 
I wouldnt be asking RSA to do any more here.
Mr H said the drying process has incurred additional electricity costs which havent been fully 
reimbursed. RSA paid the utility costs in the AA and has paid £778.70 towards the electricity 
bill of £1,174.70 Mr H received in May 2019. It deducted the £396 Mr H had paid on his 
regular direct debit over the previous six months. RSA said this was fair and our investigator 
agreed. 
However, Mr H says he paid the bill of £1,174.70 in full by debit card (his energy supplier 
has confirmed this) because this was the amount outstanding after his £66 per month 
payment was taken into account. Mr H received bills six monthly in May and November, and 
I looked at the bill to May 2019 and also Mr Hs bills for the twelve months before drying 
began in November 2017. I could see that the electricity usage increased significantly. Prior to this Mr Hs regular payments broadly covered his usage- as energy suppliers generally 
adjust them from time to time to achieve this. 
Mr Hs electricity account was showing a small credit balance in November 2017. This 
became a £273.98 debit in May 2018, rising to £726.85 debit in November 2018 and to 
£1,174.70 debit in May 2019. Mr H had continued to make his regular £66 per month 
payment throughout the period. I was satisfied that these additional electricity costs could be 
largely attributed to factors arising from the claim and thought it reasonable they should be 
reimbursed in full. As RSA had already paid Mr H £778.70 towards them, I thought they 
should make a further payment of £396 to Mr H in respect of this. 
I said I knew that my overall decision will disappoint Mr H, but in summary, apart from these 
outstanding electricity costs, I thought RSA had paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delays and service failings he 
suffered, and I wouldnt  be asking it to do any more than this.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by the 18 June 2020.
Response to provisional decision 
Mr H provided a considerable amount of information about the problems with the claim and 
the involvement of third parties. He disagreed that the compensation already paid was fair. 
He agreed with my view that his outstanding electricity costs should be settled by RSA. 
RSA said that Mr Hs electricity costs had been fully considered and that nothing further was 
due. It said in addition to the payment of £778.70 towards the May 2019 bill, there had been 
two earlier payments totalling £275.77. So, the total amount already paid for additional 
electricity was £1,054.55. I asked RSA for more detail about these figures. It said it needed 
to contact the contractors it had used to request this information. 
I asked Mr H to review the information RSA had provided about the payments and its view 
that nothing further was owing. Mr H said he agreed and that he awaited my final decision. 
He said that RSA hadnt yet paid the compensation it had offered.
RSA then advised that a full breakdown of the payments made for electricity costs wasnt 
available because the administration system used by the contractor at the time had been 
replaced. It apologised for this, but said it was confident weve paid all electricity costs 
which total well over £1,000 and, is satisfied no further payment is due. It did provide copies 
of email exchanges with Mr H which referred to two other payments which totalled £703.19 
being paid in December 2018 and January 2019.
My findings
Ive reconsidered the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint in 
part. But I wont be asking RSA to do any more than it has already offered to do. I know that 
this will come as a disappointment to Mr H, and I apologise for the length of time he has 
been waiting for my final decision.
I can see there were many problems with the claim, and I know how strongly Mr H feels it 
was handled poorly. Mr H has raised several points about other issues, including the role of 
third parties. As these matters are outside the scope of this complaint, I cant consider them 
here. But, Mr H may be able to raise a separate complaint with the parties concerned. Compensation 
There were many problems and delays during the claim causing inconvenience for Mr H and 
his family. Unfortunately, an escape of water requiring major remedial works is always going 
to cause considerable inconvenience and distress. 
However, as set out in my provisional decision, I think the total compensation of £2,000 
comprising the £300 excess waived and the additional £1,700 offered by RSA is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset caused by avoidable delays and 
problems suffered. I know that this will disappoint Mr H, but this sum is in line with the level 
of award our service would make in similar circumstances. 
So, Im upholding this part of the complaint and my decision is that RSA should pay the 
additional £1,700 in compensation if it hasnt already done so. 
Electricity Costs
Unfortunately, a detailed breakdown of what has been paid in respect of the additional 
electricity usage isnt available. During the claim RSA was reimbursing various utility costs, 
including those for the AA occupied by Mr H and his family. I can see that Mr H raised 
several queries about payments due and what had been paid. 
The emails specifically referring to excess electricity costs detail four payments which total 
£1,481.97. From this evidence it does appear that Mr Hs additional costs have been settled 
fairly and reasonably. And Mr H has now agreed nothing further is owing. So, Im not 
upholding this part of the complaint and RSA doesnt need to do any more in respect of this 
aspect. 
Whilst there were problems that were distressing for Mr H and his family, I think RSA has 
made a reasonable offer of compensation for the trouble an upset suffered as a result and it 
should now pay the additional £1,700 it has offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint in part against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc has already waived the £300 policy excess and has 
offered to pay an additional £1,700 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is fair in all 
the circumstances. So, my decision is that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc should pay 
£1,700 if it has not already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman