DRN-4126335
The complaint
The estate of the late Mr D complains UK Insurance Limited (UKI) refused to pay funeral 
costs, after it had said it would do so. 
What happened
The late Mr D passed away while on holiday abroad in March 2022. He held travel insurance 
via his packaged bank account. And that insurance is underwritten by UKI. He was 
repatriated home and UKI covered the costs of this. 
The late Mr Ds family (the estate) say the insurers assistance helpline told them the costs 
of the funeral would be covered up to £7,500. However they were later told it is either the 
repatriation or the funeral costs that are covered, not both. They said they were surprised to 
hear this, after having previously been told both the repatriation and funeral costs would be 
covered when they first made contact about the claim. They said theyve been left financially 
out of pocket in respect of the costs they paid for the late Mr Ds funeral. 
Within the emergency medical and related costs section of the policy, the terms say:
What is covered 
We will cover you for the following expenses if you die, are injured, become ill or are 
quarantined while on a trip:
If you die:
-The costs of funeral or cremation where you die outside your home area; or
-The cost of returning your body or your ashes to your home.  
The estate complained to UKI. They asked it to pay the claim for medical and repatriation 
expenses, plus funeral costs up to the policy limit of £7,500. 
UKI responded to the complaint. It provided details of the policy terms for repatriation and 
said it was correct that funeral costs would not be covered in addition to the repatriation 
costs it had paid. 
Unhappy with the response, the estate brought their complaint to this service. They said 
having had their attention drawn to the policy terms, they accept the cover is for either 
repatriation or funeral costs, and up to a limit of £7,500. However, they said the repatriation 
cost less than £7,500 and think UKI should pay out up to the remaining limit of £7,500 
towards the funeral costs as a minimum. However, they believe the full cost of the funeral 
should be paid, as they were originally told over the phone that this would be covered. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. He said hed listened to the call the 
estate made  about the claim, and the business hadnt advised that both repatriation and 
funeral costs would be covered under the policy. And he didnt uphold the complaint.  
UKI made no comment on the investigators view. However the estate disagreed. In 
summary they said: 
they were given incorrect information that the cost of the funeral would be covered up 
to £7,500;
they took the advice to be correct and had arranged the funeral expecting this to be 
paid; and
theyve offered to pay the repatriation costs if the insurer will pay the funeral costs, 
but this has been refused. 
As the estate asked for a decision from an ombudsman, the case has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say UKI has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint, and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Im very sorry to hear of the circumstances of the late Mr Ds passing. And I 
appreciate how very distressing this must have been for his family. 
The dispute at the heart of this complaint, is the level of cover available under the policy for 
repatriation and funeral expenses. And, whether or not incorrect information was provided 
about that cover, when the estate first notified UKI of the claim. 
Ive listened to the recording of the call made by one of the late Mr Ds relatives to the 
insurers helpline, the day after Mr D passed away. In respect of the discussion about cover 
the insurers agent says:
We will involve our funeral director who will liaise with the hospital and they will liaise 
with you as well, to organise to see if you want your Dad brought back home or if you 
want him to stay there and have his funeral or cremation overseas.  And the most 
we will that will be reviewed we will pay for up to £7,500 for funeral. 
And the agent goes on to provide the contact details for the funeral director. Towards the 
end of the call the relative asks: 
In terms of can just I ask a few questions if thats okay, around things like the 
repatriation? Is that covered by insurance I presume?.    
And the insurers agent says: 
It will be covered by insurance, we will just need to liaise with [inaudible] to confirm 
what happened and in this instance and if it is what you sadly advised, the funeral 
director [name] will be in contact
Having listened carefully to the call, and in particular the parts transcribed above, I dont 
think UKI provided any incorrect information. It said repatriation was covered under the 
policy, which is correct. And when it spoke of funeral expenses, it said it would pay up to £7,500 which is the policy limit. However it referenced that the family would be asked 
whether they wanted the late Mr D to be brought home (repatriated), or to have a funeral or 
cremation overseas. 
I of course appreciate that the call was made at a very distressing time, immediately after the 
late Mr D had passed away. However, Im not persuaded by the contents of the call, that UKI 
should cover both the repatriation and funeral costs. It advised of the cover available for 
each, but said the family would be asked which option they wished to take, and did not 
confirm that both options would be covered. 
The policy terms provide cover for repatriation back to the UK or funeral costs overseas. Im 
satisfied that the policy is not designed to pay for UK funeral costs  rather it is the costs of a 
cremation or burial abroad which are covered, when the policyholder has passed away 
outside their home area. And this is very common with travel insurance policies across the 
industry. 
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint the estate, and appreciate the funeral expenses have already 
been incurred, it wouldnt be fair for me to direct UKI to pay anything more than it has 
already done in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against UK Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman