DRN-4092594
The complaint
Miss G has complained that Haven Insurance Company Limited cancelled her motor 
insurance policy. She wants it to remove records of the cancellation. 
What happened
Miss G updated her motor insurance policy online and stated that her spouse was the cars 
registered keeper. The police stopped the car and told Haven the driver was Miss Gs 
boyfriend, that they werent married nor lived at the same address, and that he had a 
provisional licence. 
Haven cancelled the policy but refunded most of the premium Miss G had already paid. 
When Miss G complained, it said shed answered the question shed been asked about her 
cars registered keeper incorrectly. It said she should have chosen other, not spouse. And 
that it considered this to be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to 
cancel her policy. 
Miss G brought her complaint to us, and our Investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And he thought it was careless. He 
thought Haven wouldnt have offered cover if the question had been answered correctly. And 
he thought Haven had fairly and reasonably cancelled the policy and refunded most of the 
premium. 
Miss G didnt agree with the Investigator and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. Miss G 
said the driver at the time of the police stop wasnt her partner, but someone else, who had 
taken her car without her consent. She said she had reported this to the police and Haven. 
Miss G said when she made the policy change she had been given the option to select 
spouse/partner. She also said that she was the cars registered keeper when the policy 
was cancelled. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Haven thinks Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
she stated online when she changed her car on cover that her spouse was the cars owner 
and registered keeper. But Miss G remained the only driver on cover.
And Ive looked at the question she was asked when she completed the amendment and I 
agree she failed to take reasonable care. This is because she was asked who the cars 
owner and registered keeper was. She was given a pop up box with further information 
about what this meant. And she was provided with a drop-down menu of potential choices to 
answer the question. And I think this was a clear question asked by Haven through the site 
Miss G used.
Miss G chose spouse and shes explained that this was because she was given the option 
to select partner/spouse. But Haven has provided evidence to show that this option wasnt 
available to Miss G. She had to choose from a list of options including spouse or other. 
And I think the correct choice would have been other. 
Miss G said these options werent available to her when she changed her car. But Haven 
has provided evidence to show that the options were in place when Miss G completed her 
change of car. 
And I think this means Miss G failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she stated that her the cars owner was her spouse. This was 
confirmed on the Statement of Fact then issued to Miss G. 
When the police stopped the car, the police told Haven that the driver was the cars owner 
and registered keeper. But he was uninsured, he wasnt Miss Gs spouse, and he lived at a 
different address to her. So Haven said Miss G had allowed an uninsured driver to drive her 
car. But it cancelled the policy because she had misrepresented who was the owner and 
registered keeper.  
Miss G later told Haven that the car had been taken without her consent. But this didnt alter 
the fact that she had misrepresented that the owner and keeper was her spouse. 
Haven has provided evidence from its underwriting guide which shows that if Miss G had not 
made this misrepresentation it would not have offered cover as she had no insurable interest 
in the car. Haven explained that it would have provided cover if the cars keeper had been 
Miss Gs spouse or common law partner. But they werent married and didnt live together. 
This means I am satisfied Miss Gs misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA.
Haven said it was entitled to avoid Miss Gs policy as the misrepresentation was a reckless 
or deliberate misrepresentation, but it decided to treat it as careless and cancel the policy 
instead which is a more favourable option for her. I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and I dont require it to remove the record of the cancellation. I can see that 
Miss G was given a refund of most of her premium. 
Therefore, Im satisfied Haven was entitled to cancel Miss Gs policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, 
I think allowing Haven to rely on it to cancel Miss Gs policy produces the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman