DRN-1162241
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that J.P. Morgan Trustee & Administration Services Limited stopped 
providing administrative support for his investments forcing him to transfer to another 
provider, which was very difficult in his particular circumstances.
What happened
In 2019 J.P. Morgan wrote to its clients, including Mr H, explaining that it would no longer be 
offering ISA and investment accounts. Although it would continue to manage any underlying 
investments, they would need to be transferred to another provider to be administered. The 
letter offered a default option for transfer - to a provider that J.P. Morgan deemed a suitable 
alternative - or the option to transfer to a provider of choice, all free of charge. The letter also 
suggested obtaining advice on how to proceed.
Mr H was very unhappy with this as his health conditions made completing the process 
difficult. He contacted J.P. Morgan to see if a transfer could be made to another provider that 
he already used. It explained that this was possible but that Mr H would need to obtain and 
sign a transfer form for that provider.  
Mr H made a formal complaint to J. P. Morgan but it didn't uphold it. It felt that it was entitled 
to make the changes and the options it had offered were reasonable.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service where our investigator reached broadly the same 
conclusion. She agreed that J.P. Morgan was entitled to make the changes and noted that 
the letter to Mr H, while tailored to a particular alternative provider, did offer the choice to use 
any other. 
The investigator also felt that in respect of Mr H's specific circumstances - his age and 
medical conditions - J.P. Morgan had acted reasonably. She noted that in its final response 
to him, it had explained what had happened, enclosed the required form for Mr H's preferred 
provider and also taken steps to contact that provider on Mr H's behalf.  
Mr H didn't accept the investigator's view, so she provided some further clarification about 
the process. She explained that J.P. Morgan had recommended the specific provider as it 
felt it would be the most suitable for Mr H for the long term. She also reiterated that there 
would be no charge for the transfer but Mr H would still need to sign a transfer request form. 
Mr H remained unhappy, so the matter's been referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I recognise Mr H 
will be very disappointed, I've reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for 
broadly the same reasons. Firstly, I'm satisfied that J.P. Morgan was entitled to make the changes to its services. And 
that its process of notification to its clients was carried out in accordance with its terms and 
conditions. 
Secondly, in respect of the options given, I think these were reasonable and it acted to give 
as much help as possible by selecting what it felt was a suitable alternative provider. But it 
also made clear what alternatives were available and that these could be selected at no 
cost. 
In respect of Mr H's specific circumstances, once J.P. Morgan was aware of the difficulties 
he might face I think it acted to try to help him in a reasonable manner. As noted, in its 
response to him it included the specific form that he would require for his preferred provider 
and also made contact on his behalf with that provider.  
But it remained the case that for a transfer to be completed as Mr H wanted, he needed to 
instigate it and sign the relevant documents. That wasn't something that J.P. Morgan was 
able to do on his behalf. So, ultimately, I think it did all it could to help Mr H. 
As I understand it, Mr H has sold his holdings. While I can understand his frustration and 
disappointment with the situation, I don't feel this is something he was forced into by J.P. 
Morgan's actions, so I don think I can reasonably hold it responsible for any consequences 
of this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman