DRN-4032200
The complaint
Mrs W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) mishandled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint was a hatchback car, first registered in 
2011.
For the year from early June 2021, Mrs W had the car insured on a comprehensive policy. 
UKI was the insurer that was responsible for dealing with any claim.
Unfortunately, during a storm in late November 2021, a chimney pot fell off a neighbouring 
house onto the car.
UKI paid Mrs W its pre-accident valuation of the car, less an excess of £350.00.
Mrs W complained that UKI recorded a fault claim and didnt refund the excess.
By a final response dated mid-October 2022, UKI turned down the complaint.
Mrs W brought her complaint to us in late January or early February 2023.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
UKI had acted fairly.
Mrs W disagreed with the investigators opinion. She asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. She says, in summary, that:
A private landlord owned the neighbouring house. She had to contact the agent.
She lives next door, so she knows the house hadn't been maintained. It was vacant 
for a long time.
Bits of the roof were continually falling down on her path. Even when the weather 
conditions were normal, bits of the front of the dormer still fell away.
The weather conditions were adverse at the time of her claim, but a well- maintained 
roof should withstand this.
No other chimney pots in the area came off.
UKI asked her to get evidence that the roof was not maintained. She provided it. 
They ignored it. UKI didnt seriously consider any of her evidence.
The roofer lied about water ingress through the window. This was disregarded too.
The new owner moved in in January 2022. They confirmed there was no water 
ingress through the windows.
UKI did not keep her informed about the situation, and only got back to her when she 
phoned or emailed them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any claim  and especially a fault claim  is likely to increase the policyholders premium 
from the following year.
It was a term of the policy that Mrs W would pay the first £350.00 of any claim. So that would 
be an uninsured loss. 
Where a motor insurer has made an outlay on a claim, its common practice for the insurer to 
treat that claim as a fault claim against its policyholder unless and until the insurer recovers 
its outlay in full. So a fault claim doesnt necessarily mean that the policyholder has done 
anything wrong.
Most motor insurance policies contain a term allowing the insurer to decide how best to deal 
with a potential claim against a third party. UKIs policy terms included the following: 
When we can act on your behalf 
Were entitled to do either of the following: 
oTake over and carry out the negotiation, defence or settlement of any claim in 
your name, or in the name of any other person covered by this policy. 
oStart legal proceedings in your name, or in the name of any other person 
connected to this policy. This can be for your benefit or our own benefit.
In my view, that meant that  in relation to a potential claim against a third party  UKIs view 
would prevail over Mrs Ws view. I will consider whether UKI applied that term fairly.
Mrs W gathered evidence of lack of care by the landlord of the neighbouring house. 
I dont consider that Mrs W is correct in saying that UKI ignored the evidence. From what Ive 
seen, UKI considered the evidence and the prospects of successfully recovering its outlay by 
making a claim against the landlord (or their insurer).
UKI decided that the prospects of success through litigation didnt justify the costs and risk 
involved. So it decided not to pursue a claim for reimbursement of its outlay. I consider that 
UKIs decision was reasonable in the circumstances and not unfair to Mrs W.
I dont consider that UKI had to help Mrs W recover the excess from the landlord. It remains 
open to her to pursue a claim against the landlord. 
Whilst I agree that the situation was no fault of Mrs Ws, I dont find it fair and reasonable to 
direct UKI to change the way it has recorded the claim or to refund the excess.
I accept that there were times when UKI didnt communicate with Mrs W as well as it 
shouldve done. However, Mrs Ws complaint form included the following:
I am not asking for compensation for the stress, time and frustration involved just the 
'fault' to come off my insurance and the £350 refunded to me.
In any event, I dont consider that the shortcoming in UKIs communication caused Mrs W 
distress and inconvenience at a level that called for financial compensation. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct U K Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2023.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman