DRN-2599176
The complaint
Mrs Ts complaint is about a Retirement Home Plan she has with Bank of Scotland plc 
(BoS). Her representative feels the mortgage was mis-sold because of Mrs Ts cognitive 
impairments, due to an educational disability, meant that she couldnt understand the 
contract she was entering into or the extension to it by way of further borrowing in 2006. 
Mrs Ts representative doesnt believe BoS carried out suitable affordability checks at the 
time of either of the advances. Nor does she believe a suitable valuation was undertaken in 
2006 when the further advance was granted, as she doesnt think the property was worth 
enough to allow the advance. In addition, she doesnt think the term of the mortgage was 
appropriate as no consideration was made of whether Mrs T would be able to continue 
managing a house of multiple occupancy (HMO) into her 80s and 90s.
Mrs T is being represented by a relative, who I will refer to hereafter as Mrs H. 
What happened
Mrs T arranged a mortgage with BoS on her main residence in 1990. It appears to have 
been arranged on a variable interest rate and on a repayment basis. The property was 
valued at £145,000 in 1990. By 2001 she owed around £55,000 of the original borrowing, 
about £32,000 on an existing further advance and was applying for a second further 
advance of £20,000. She also wanted to extend the term of the mortgage and add a fixed 
rate product in order to reduce the payments. Mrs T confirmed this in writing and also 
involved an independent financial adviser (IFA) when doing so. The further advance money 
was to be used to help purchase an overseas property. The new further advance was 
granted on the account in May 2001.
Whilst the information available from 2001 is limited because of the amount of time that has 
passed, BoS notes from the time detail there was discussion about the affordability of the 
proposed mortgage arrangements. Mrs T was recorded as a hotelier with an income of 
£50,000. 
As a consequence of Mrs T asking for an extension to the mortgage term and her age at the 
time, the mortgage was converted to the Retirement Home Plan. This had a term of 40 
years, meaning Mrs T would be 99 when the term expired. The Home Retirement Plan was 
an interest-only mortgage that was designed to be repaid when the mortgaged property was 
sold. Mrs T confirmed in writing that she wanted to move ahead with the change. Whilst the 
handwriting of the letter is poor, the instruction is understandable.
The conversion to the retirement home plan went through in June 2001, several months after 
Mrs Ts first enquiry about changes to her mortgage. The mortgage balance was slightly 
over £100,000. Whilst the mortgage loan was on an interest-only basis, it appears Mrs T 
made some overpayments for the initial years of the arrangement. 
In 2006 Mrs T applied for a further advance on the mortgage, which was granted. No advice 
was given by BoS in relation to the application. This brought the borrowing up to just over 
£300,000. A fixed rate was attached to the mortgage and Mrs T changed the mortgage to a 
repayment basis. The documentation from the time recorded Mrs T as a hotel manager with 
an income of £131,560 (Mrs H has suggested this was the total turnover of Mrs Ts 
businesses rather than her income). She also had a very significant amount of debts - 
£180,000  spread over loans and multiple credit cards. The property value was estimated 
as being around £350,000. Mrs T made the necessary mortgage payments to the mortgage 
until 2019.
In the summer of 2017 Mrs T again contacted BoS to enquire about borrowing a further 
£10,000 for home improvements. The process to do so was explained to her and she said 
she would call again. Some months later she called again about the further advance. She 
explained that a flat roof in her home had become damaged in bad weather, but her insurer 
had declined a claim for the damage, so she needed money to complete repairs. BoS 
advised her to get some quotes for the work and call back. She didnt contact it again. 
In the autumn of 2019 Mrs T started to miss payments. BoS was told in September 2019 that 
Mrs T had cancelled the direct debit mandate and BoS received a letter explaining her 
financial difficulties.
The following month Mrs H telephoned BoS and explained that Mrs T was in financial 
difficulties as her main source of income had stopped. It was explained that Mrs T owned 
three other properties outright  two commercial rentals run as HMOs and a residential 
property abroad. It was explained that Mrs T had lost the licence on the larger HMO, which 
was her main source of income. As such, Mrs T couldnt afford to pay the mortgage with BoS 
on her home. It was also confirmed she was in arrears with the utilities on the larger HMO 
property. Mrs H was told she needed to obtain Mrs Ts authority if she wanted to discuss the 
account with it.
A redemption statement and a letter of authority were sent to Mrs T shortly after Mrs Hs call. 
Mrs H was also reminded that she needed the letter of authority completed before BoS could 
speak to her about the situation and the possibility of a negative equity sale.
At the end of November 2019 Mrs H called BoS again and told it the HMO had been sold. 
Most of the debts associated with it had been cleared, but there was still the electricity bill to 
pay. Mrs T also had credit card debt totalling almost £50,000, was in arrears of council tax, 
had a car loan and owed HMRC two years of tax. 
Mrs H explained that Mrs T was in receipt of a state pension and an income from the second 
of her HMO properties  this totalled around £1,400 per month. It was also confirmed that 
the overseas property was being sold to pay off more of Mrs Ts debts. Mrs H also told BoS 
the property its mortgage was on, which was Mrs Ts home, was in a state of disrepair, so 
she thought it might be in negative equity. It was confirmed that Mrs T would move into the 
remaining HMO after her home was sold. BoS said it would send an income and expenditure 
form for Mrs T to fill in and return. It also suggested the proceeds from the sale of the 
overseas property should be used to pay any shortfall with its mortgage. This appears to 
have been agreed, but Mrs H then questioned how Mrs T had been given the mortgage in 
the first place. It was introduced that Mrs T had difficulties. 
There was a second call on the same day from Mrs H. She asked BoS if it would accept an 
offer of £150,000 for the property. It was noted that she confirmed Mrs Ts other two 
properties were owned outright. It was also detailed that if the money from the sale of the 
overseas property was directed to its mortgage, there would be no negative equity. 
However, if that didnt happen, BoS confirmed that any shortfall would be passed to its 
collections department for it to be explored how Mrs T could pay it. Mrs H was told the 
process to agree a shortfall sale would take about eight weeks. Mrs H called BoS again a week later. She said they hadnt received the negative equity sale 
application pack. She also said they had spoken to a debt charity and having done so, Mrs T 
wanted BoS to accept £150,000 in full and final settlement of the mortgage debt. BoS said it 
didnt accept offers on the basis of full and final settlement. Mrs H then made a complaint 
that the mortgage had been mis-sold as it went beyond retirement and Mrs Ts difficulties 
hadnt been taken into account at the time the mortgage was granted. 
In April 2020 Mrs T called BoS and asked for a payment holiday. This was granted for May, 
June and July 2020.  She called again in May 2020 and passed the telephone to a friend 
(not Mrs H) who asked if BoS would write off the mortgage if Mrs T paid it £150,000. She 
was directed to the negative equity team, which had already said no to this proposition and 
had asked Mrs T to provide it with further information. 
BoS considered Mrs Ts complaint. It said it wasnt able to establish how Mrs Ts existing 
mortgage had been converted to a Retirement Home Plan in 2001  due to discussions with 
it, an independent financial adviser (IFA) it has record of being involved, or a combination of 
both. However, Mrs T would have been sent all the details of the changes in writing and 
would have received annual statements thereafter. 
As for the 2006 further advance, BoS said its records showed that it had revalued the 
property and, based on that valuation, the advance was reasonable as the mortgage 
represented 85% of its value. It also recorded the funds released in 2006 were used to repay 
other debts that already existed, so Mrs Ts overall financial position was not worse and the 
lower interest rate on the mortgage meant the payments were more affordable than before. 
BoS said it would have credit scored the application and the application met lending criteria. 
It received information from the accountant and looked at bank statements; both of which 
supported affordability. It sympathised with the situation Mrs T was in regarding her financial 
difficulties, but recommended she speak to its negative equity team for assistance going 
forward.
Mrs T wasnt happy with BoS response and referred her complaint to this service. When she 
did Mrs H explained that Mrs T had owned two HMOs. She lost the licence on one of them 
and all the tenants moved out in October 2019.  This meant her income dropped and she 
couldnt afford her mortgage. The residential property was in negative equity and so she was 
told to apply for permission to sell at a shortfall and would have to agree a payment plan for 
the shortfall of around £85,000. This was despite BoS knowing that Mrs T had a negative 
monthly income and her circumstances wouldnt change. She said the mortgage 
arrangements werent suitable due to Mrs Ts educational disability. She also confirmed that 
Mrs T by then also had mental health issues as a consequence of the situation and her 
educational disability. 
BoS objected to this service considering the complaint. It said it considered if the mortgage 
was unaffordable, Mrs T would have known this within six years of the mortgage advances. 
Our investigator considered BoS objection to this service considering the merits of Mrs Ts 
complaint, but he wasnt persuaded she would have known about the suitability issues shed 
now raised any earlier than the changes in her circumstances. BoS considered the matter 
further and consented to us looking at the merits of Mrs Ts complaint.
Our investigator noted Mrs Hs comments about Mrs T having an educational disability and 
cognitive impairment. As this hadnt been mentioned to BoS until late in 2019 and in light of 
Mrs Ts interactions with BoS during the term of the mortgage and the fact that she had run a 
business successfully for what appeared to be around 30 years, our investigator asked 
Mrs H for some further information. Mrs H didnt respond to this request until after the 
investigator declined the complaint. She said that Mrs Ts credit card companies hadnt 
asked for any evidence of the disability before they had written off the debts. She questioned whether we should be asking for such information and said there was none available, but it 
would be possible to have an assessment done.
The investigator went on to considered the merits of Mrs Ts complaint, but he didnt 
recommend it be upheld. Mrs H didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She considered 
it was bad advice to consolidate Mrs Ts debts in 2006 because if shed been unable to pay 
them, the supplying companies would have taken a lower payment or written the debts off 
completely. However, BoS agreeing to lend the money against Mrs Ts home meant the debt 
put her home at risk. Mrs H asked that the complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
Mrs H made some further comment before the complaint was passed to me for 
consideration. She considered BoS should have refused lending in 2006 and that the debts 
wouldnt have been secured, so Mrs T wouldnt have been at risk of losing her home. She 
didnt consider Mrs T was in a position to maintain the payments to the mortgage until the 
end of the term and therefore, she was likely to lose her home no matter what. In addition, 
Mrs H said that Mrs T had taken out a further loan in 2011 for £80,000 and run up more 
credit card debt, which she considered evidenced Mrs T having difficulty understanding 
finances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked at the evidence from the 2001 alterations to Mrs Ts mortgage. Its clear that 
she was receiving advice about her mortgage (and possibly her subsequent property 
purchase) from a firm of IFAs. BoS wouldnt be responsible for any advice the IFA gave 
Mrs T about her mortgage. 
Mrs T wanted to borrow some money against her home. She wanted to extend the term of 
the mortgage and attach a fixed rate to it in order to make the additional lending more 
affordable. This is quite clear and Mrs T wrote a letter confirming thats what she wanted. I 
understand that Mrs H has said Mrs T would have been incapable of writing a letter to BoS, 
but I have no reason to doubt the letter, given it was recorded in a note of a telephone call 
with Mrs T that she would be sending in such a letter. 
At the time of the sale Mrs T was recorded as being a hotelier with an income of £50,000. 
She was self-employed and owned the hotel in question. This meant that Mrs T would 
decide when she wanted to retire and that she would not necessarily lose her income when 
she did  given she owned the hotel she could have arranged alternative management of the 
business. Alternatively, if she did retire and sell the hotel, she could use some of the sale 
proceeds to repay her mortgage with BoS.
BoS cant be held responsible for any advice the IFA gave Mrs T. However, if BoS 
suggested the possibility of changing the mortgage type to facilitate Mrs Ts requirements 
from her mortgage, I dont think I could find that it was inappropriate for it to do so. The 
mortgage type Mrs T ended up with is one that was designed to go beyond retirement. It 
also appears that BoS looked into the affordability of the mortgage arrangement beyond 
Mrs Ts state retirement age. I havent seen any evidence that BoS made any errors in 
granting the mortgage it was asked for. It would also appear that Mrs T was fully informed 
about the nature of the changes and accepted them.
There is more evidence from the 2006 further advance. Mrs T had a great deal of unsecured 
debt. Its not clear how or why she ran this debt up, but it existed, and Mrs T wanted to 
consolidate it onto her mortgage. The consolidation of debts will usually involve those debts being paid over an extended period, with the potential for more interest to be paid. This can 
be appropriate in some cases, but not in others. 
In Mrs Ts case she had in the region of £180,000 of debts that were in the main attracting 
much higher interest rates than they would under the mortgage. In addition, the amount of 
the monthly payments would have been causing those debts to increase as her recorded net 
income over the previous three years was in the region of £35,000. The likelihood of Mrs T 
being able to repay the debts in any form of a reasonable period of time was very low, purely 
because of the amount of debt there was. I think consolidation of the debts was probably 
one of the more palatable options open to her to deal with the situation. I would highlight that 
Mrs T didnt seek advice about her decision to consolidate her debts, she simply made an 
application to do so. 
I note that Mrs H has said the debts should have been left as they were, on the assumption 
they would have just been written off by Mrs Hs creditors. That might have happened, but 
alternatively she may have been pushed into bankruptcy or forced to sell some of her capital 
assets, with the potential result of her losing her business and income. 
The income detailed on the application form was clearly incorrect and may well have been 
Mrs Ts turnover as Mrs H suggested, but there is evidence BoS knew this. Mrs T provided 
proof of income for the three years prior to her application. So it would appear BoS 
completed affordability checks on the new mortgage lending. In the circumstances where 
Mrs T didnt ask for advice, I dont think BoS was wrong to simply assess the application that 
had been made to it and see if it was affordable and met its lending criteria. I cant find that 
BoS did anything wrong.
Mrs H has put forward that Mrs T wasnt capable of understanding her mortgage or her 
interactions with BoS. The evidence of Mrs Ts interactions with BoS dont indicate that is the 
case. Nor does the fact she ran a successful business for many years. While Mrs T did get 
into debt on a personal basis, that doesnt mean she was not capable of understanding what 
she was doing; many people get into debt and financial difficulties but not because of any 
disability or cognitive impairment. In the absence of any evidence to support Mrs Hs 
statement that Mrs T has a disability that would mean she wasnt capable of understanding 
what she was doing when interacting with BoS about her mortgage, I am unable to find it 
acted inappropriately when dealing with Mrs T.
In relation to the sale of Mrs Ts home at a shortfall, BoS has indicated it would allow this to 
happen, but would want to explore whether Mrs T was able to repay some or all of the 
shortfall. I note that Mrs H has provided evidence that Mrs T has an income shortfall, this 
assessment by the debt charity was based on her position when living in the mortgaged 
property. The assessment BoS will want to make is that from after Mrs T moves and has 
reduced outgoings. In addition, Mrs H has confirmed that Mrs T has two unencumbered 
properties, which might provide the possibility of the shortfall being paid. It isnt 
unreasonable for BoS to want to fully explore the situation. So I dont consider BoS was 
wrong when it said it wouldnt accept the offer to pay £150,000 in full and final settlement of 
her mortgage debt with it.
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 
16 April 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman