DRN-3837766
The complaint
Mr A complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as Firstdirect (firstdirect) misinformed him 
about the early repayment of his personal loan.
What happened
In January 2019, Mr A took out a personal loan of £12,700 payable over 54 months with
repayments of £253.35 per month. In February 2022 he messaged firstdirect and then
called them  as he wanted to pay it off early and wanted a settlement figure. Firstdirect said
the settlement figure was £4,240.48. But when the loan was paid off - the amount of
£4,493.83 was debited to his current account.
Mr A complained. He was changing his car and said that firstdirect told him verbally and in
writing that the amount needed was £4,240.48 and they should honour that amount. He was
now short of the money he needed to buy the new car and was concerned about going
overdrawn as a result.
Firstdirect apologised that he had been given the wrong amount and it shouldve been
£4,560.30. This was a human error and offered compensation of £50.
Mr A declined to accept firstdirects offer and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator
said firstdirect acted reasonably in dealing with Mr As complaint. The settlement figure that
was paid by Mr A was the correct one and it was human error on the part of firstdirect to
advise him of a different figure.
Mr A asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint.
I issued a provisional decision which said:
The crux of Mr As complaint is that firstdirect advised him of the settlement figure of
 £4,240.48  both on the phone and in messaging/chatbot. Firstdirect admit they told Mr A
the wrong figure.
And so, Mr As complaint comes down to whether firstdirect should be bound by what they
said on the phone and in the chat  and I think they should be. I say this because they
gave Mr A the wrong figure twice. Firstly, in the chat, they told him the figure was
£4,240.30  which Ive seen. And I listened to the call on 28 February 2022  Mr A called
firstdirect to check the figure before he went ahead. And the call handler told him the same
figure  I accept she was reading from the chat, but she shouldve re-checked the figure
before advising it to Mr A again.
Im also aware that where there is a fixed sum agreement personal loan  customers are
reliant on a firm to work out such a figure correctly and in line with the relevant regulations 
its difficult for a customer to work it out themselves.
Firstdirects final response said the settlement figure was £4,560.30  which is a different
amount. I cant see how this was quoted by firstdirect, but it makes no difference to my
provisional decision.
And so  in the circumstances of this complaint, I think firstdirect should pay compensation
to Mr A of £260 - being the difference in the amounts quoted. This assumes that
firstdirects offer of £50 hasnt yet been paid  which I ask firstdirect to confirm when
responding to this provisional decision.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Mr A agreed with it. But firstdirect didnt. They said that while they accepted they made a
mistake in advising Mr A of the wrong figure to settle his loan, the main point was that he
was contractually obliged to repay the loan in accordance with the loan agreement. And this
amount had to be repaid even though theyd told him the wrong amount on the phone and in
the chat. He would have had to pay the amount due to settle the loan, regardless of their
mistake.
Firstdirect also showed us Mr As current account statements which showed he didnt go
overdrawn at the time  so he didnt have to pay interest or charges as a result. So there
wasnt an impact in that respect.
I reconsidered Mr As complaint in the light of these comments and issued a second 
provisional decision which said:
I have reconsidered Mr As complaint and agree with what firstdirect have said. Mr A would
have had to settle the amount due on the loan (£4,493.83), despite their mistake. And so, I
am persuaded by this argument. It is also consistent with the principles of how our service
looks at these issues.
Therefore, I am changing my provisional decision to ask firstdirect to pay compensation of
£100 (including their first offer of £50)  this compensates Mr A for the mistake made on the
phone, but doesnt go as far as reimbursing the difference in the amount paid.
Responses to the second provisional decision:
Firstdirect agreed and confirmed that the first offer of £50 hadnt been paid. Mr A said he 
was disappointed with the new provisional decision. He reiterated that hed been told the 
redemption figure on the phone and in writing by firstdirect and they should honour that. He 
said he hadnt gone overdrawn but had used extra credit on his credit cards as a result.
I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mr A had said. But unfortunately, this isnt new information and I had 
considered his points in issuing the second provisional decision. Mr A hasnt said that he had 
to pay interest on the credit cards  so I assume this wasnt the case. But even if he had, I 
dont think that would change my final decision.Firstdirect made a human error here  which they accept. But that doesnt mean to say that 
Mr A didnt have to pay the amount due under the personal loan agreement.
Therefore, my final decision is consistent with the second provisional decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct must:
Pay compensation of £100 to Mr A for distress and inconvenience. This to include
firstdirects initial offer of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman