DRN-3988998
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the way Ageas Insurance Limited (AIL) handled his claim under his 
buildings and contents insurance following a burglary.
What happened
While Mr H was away, his home was burgled. The burglars broke the window of his back 
door, carried out an untidy search of bedrooms, and took jewellery cash and keys. His 
daughter, who had disturbed the burglars, reported the matter to the police and took photos 
and a short video as evidence of the damage. The police provided a reference number.
On his return, Mr H claimed under his policy for the window repair, replacement locks, cash, 
jewellery and bedding. The jewellery claim was handled separately, and Mr H doesnt 
dispute any part of that. However, he didnt think AIL handled the rest of his claim 
appropriately. 
In particular, Mr H said that when AILs file handler called him, he found them to be 
belligerent, interrogative and intimidating, which put him off claiming for other items hed 
since identified as stolen. Mr H complained about the manner in which the calls were 
handled, and he said AIL hadnt contacted his daughter for more information despite him 
asking it to. 
In terms of the damaged or stolen items, Mr H complained that AIL would only pay for three 
of the four replacement locks, that it wanted evidence of the glass replacement cost, and 
that it had refused to cover the cost of the bedding without evidence of damage. Mr H was 
unhappy that AIL repeatedly asked for a crime reference number (CRN) even though hed 
already provided the only reference number hed received from the police.
In response to his complaint, AIL changed the file handler working on his claim and sent its 
final response. AIL didnt agree with Mr Hs complaint about the way it handled the calls, but 
it apologised for the way he felt about them. AIL also explained why it needed the 
information it asked for before it could progress the claim, and said it understood that the 
questioning may have seemed intrusive.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld Mr Hs complaint. He said AIL had asked for information relevant to 
the claim and he didnt think it was wrong to do so. But our investigator pointed out that AIL 
had accepted it couldve handled the matter regarding the bedding better than it did. Further 
to this, our investigator said the calls werent handled as well as they couldve been, so he 
thought £200 compensation was warranted.
AIL didnt agree with the proposal so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Firstly, Im sorry to hear that Mr H and his family experienced this burglary. Its evident, 
having listened to the calls and the video, that they found it very distressing. Im afraid my 
decision doesnt take into consideration any of the distress caused by the burglary itself. I 
can only consider the additional distress or inconvenience caused as a direct result of 
something AIL did or didnt do. 
I wont repeat the detail of the complaint here. Instead, Ill explain the reasons for my 
decision and why I dont think AILs comments warrant a different outcome to that proposed 
by our investigator.
Looking just at the items Mr H claimed for, I dont think it was unreasonable for AIL to ask for 
proof of the CRN and repair or replacement costs. The policy sets out Mr Hs responsibility 
when making a claim, as follows:
If somethings been stolen you must start by calling the Police. And please make sure 
you get a crime reference numberIts really important that you dont throw away any 
damaged items until we say so Unless in the case of emergency, please do not carry 
out any repairs or replace any items without us agreeing to this first.
For any claim that is made you will need to be able to prove or substantiate that an actual 
insured incident covered by this policy has occurred. This could be a police report, 
photographic or actual evidence of the loss or damage you have suffered. Youll need to 
provide details of everything thats been lost, stolen or damaged, and we may ask for 
receipts or proof of purchase in some cases.
I understand that Mr Hs daughter dealt with some of this while he was still away, and he 
didnt know the detail when AIL asked. But that doesnt mean AIL shouldnt have asked him 
to provide the evidence it needed to progress the claim.
So, Im satisfied that AIL didnt treat Mr H unfairly by asking for the information it did.
AIL didnt think the calls with Mr H demonstrated any evidence of service failings. I disagree.
I listened to the recordings of the conversations between Mr H and AILs file handler which 
caused him upset. I dont consider the factual content of the call inappropriate because it 
covered requirements in line with the policy terms and conditions. However, its apparent 
that Mr H was becoming distressed by the conversation and the file handler spoke over him 
many times. Mr H wasn't given the opportunity to finish his sentences. When the file handler 
discussed the issue of the bedding, their tone seemed to become rather brusque, such that 
Mr H commented on it immediately and became audibly distressed. 
Given the tone of the conversation and Mr Hs inability to finish what he was saying, I can 
understand why he didnt feel able to include a missed electrical item on his claim. I can also 
understand why he didnt think AIL provided the service he couldve hoped for. 
Mr Hs distress about the burglary itself may be expected. But I dont find that AIL handled 
the claim as well as it shouldve done which, in turn, caused Mr H further distress and upset. 
For that reason, Im satisfied that compensation is warranted for the additional distress and 
inconvenience caused. If Mr H hasnt already claimed for other stolen items, he may wish to 
submit evidence to AIL for consideration in line with the terms of the policy.The policy provides cover for damaged or stolen items. When AIL asked Mr H about his 
bedding, he didnt know whether it was damaged because his daughter had disposed of, and 
replaced it before he returned home. So, AIL didnt confirm cover for the bedding.
I understand Mr H was unhappy about AILs request for evidence of damage before 
considering the replacement cost. But, as set out in the policy, AIL is entitled to ask for 
evidence. The bank statement Mr Hs daughter provided didnt give enough information to 
show what was bought, so AIL asked for a receipt. AIL said it will review the cost on 
provision of a receipt showing the items bought. I think thats fair and in line with the policy.
Linked to this point, Mr H complained that AIL didnt contact his daughter directly to ask for 
further information. I havent seen any evidence that Mr H specifically asked AIL to contact 
his daughter, but he did say it could. So, he remained unhappy that AIL didnt try to settle the 
matter by calling her. When it did, AIL was told that the bedding was soiled.
It was clear from the conversations that Mr H didnt know some of the details AIL asked for. 
So, it wouldve been reasonable for AIL to pick up on that much earlier in the process and 
discuss the matter with his daughter, as Mr H suggested. AIL said it didnt have contact 
details, but I havent seen any evidence to show it asked for them either. Although it doesnt 
change the fact that AIL is entitled to seek evidence of the replacement cost, I consider it a 
further service failing that AIL didnt pick up on what Mr H was saying. Im satisfied this 
service failing warrants compensation.
Mr H claimed for £80 cash which was stolen during the burglary. He provided evidence of a 
number of cash withdrawals made just before he went away. The withdrawals amounted to 
more than he claimed for, and Mr H has given a reasonable explanation for why he left £80 
behind. Theres little more evidence he could reasonably provide for this part of his claim, so 
Im satisfied that AIL should pay for the stolen cash. 
Theres no dispute at this stage about the remaining items Mr H claimed for. Both parties 
have agreed that AIL will pay for three of the four replacement locks because theres no 
evidence that keys for the fourth lock were stolen. AIL has agreed to pay for the replacement 
glass based on the evidence of a bank transfer made by Mr Hs daughter. Although theres 
no invoice, its evident that the glass needed to be replaced so Im satisfied it was 
reasonable for AIL to cover that cost without further evidence.
Overall, the evidence shows that AIL asked for information about Mr Hs claim in line with the 
policy. I consider that fair and reasonable. However, the manner in which AIL asked for 
information and its failure to pick up on Mr Hs obvious distress when he didnt know the 
answers to its questions demonstrates a service failing. Having thought carefully about this, 
Im satisfied £200 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Ageas 
Insurance Limited must:
if it has not already done so, pay Mr Hs claim for £80 stolen cash, £222.30 for three 
replacement locks and £120 for the replacement window;
review the bedding receipt and pay Mr H for any items covered under his policy, and
pay £200 compensation for the additional distress and inconvenience caused by its 
handling of his claim.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman