DRN-4049777
The complaint
Mr F complains about the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with Mi
Vehicle Finance Limited, trading as Mann Island (who Ill call Mi).
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2023. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
On 21 May 2021 Mr F entered into a hire purchase agreement with Mi for a used car. The
car was about four years old and had already completed about 51,500 miles.
Mr F says the car required an AdBlue top up in August 2021 and again in November 2021.
In December 2021 he says there was a loud band from the engine and the cabin filled with
smoke. The supplying dealer offered to repair the car, but Mr F arranged for it to be repaired
at a local mechanics and the dealership offered to pay £500 towards the repair. The turbo
was therefore replaced.
In early April 2022 Mr F says the car needed AdBlue again and subsequently broke down.
The mechanic who originally fixed the car and who the car was taken to again, provided a
report that said:
..it seems that there is an injector fault from it burning on its own oil. This as a result of the
Ad Blue not doing what it should be causing the DPF (Diesel Particulate Filter) to clog up as
its not clearing.
Mr F complained to Mi as he said the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Mi didnt think Mr F had provided sufficient evidence the fault was present, or developing,
when it was supplied to him. They questioned the independence of the mechanic and
queried whether the initial repair, in December 2021, had been adequate.
Our investigator provided a couple of opinions. He initially thought the complaint shouldnt be
upheld but later changed his mind and suggested the car hadnt proven durable. He
suggested Mi should take some further action.
Mi were disappointed with the investigators change of heart. They explained that Mr F had
been able to cover more than 10,000 miles in the car and they suggested it was his
responsibility to demonstrate the car was faulty when supplied. They noted there was no
record of the car having been MOTd and they didnt think it was fair to consider the views of
the mechanic who they said could not be considered impartial.
Mr F voluntarily terminated his agreement and handed the car back in September 2022 but
as Mi still didnt agree with the investigators view they asked for the complaint to be referred
to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not inclined to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr F acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car should have
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Mi, who are also the supplier of
the car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account
any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr F. The car here was about
four years old and had already completed about 51,500 miles, so I think it would be
reasonable to expect it to be experiencing some wear and tear.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to
assume it was present at the point of supply, when Mi were responsible for the cars quality,
unless they can demonstrate otherwise.
It seems the car did require AdBlue top ups within the first six months and these may have
been signs that the car had a problem.
The relevant legislation gives the business one opportunity to repair a fault that is present or
developing when the car is supplied. But as the dealership werent given an opportunity to
investigate the problem I think the offer to contribute to the repair was a fair one.
If the repair fails the relevant legislation suggests the consumer should be allowed to reject
the car. But here, I dont think that would be fair. I say that because:
It wasnt the dealerships repair, and the mechanic who has been asked to comment
on the current failure cannot fairly be considered to be independent because he
repaired the car. His independence would be hampered by concerns hed be
responsible for any failed repair, and also because I can see from Mis system notes
that Mr F told them he was a friend.
There has been no independent investigation into the fault on the car and I think,
given the passage of time, that the onus would be on Mr F to provide that evidence.
So, I am not persuaded I have sufficient information to demonstrate the subsequent
fault was present or developing in the car when it was supplied.
When we think about whether a car is of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation
asks that we consider whether it was durable. As theres been no independent
inspection of the fault I dont think it would be fair to suggest the car (or the fuelsystem) has not been durable. That would ignore any consideration of whether the
repair was completed correctly.
Mr F has suggested that the new fault is not the same as the original one. If that is
the case then I dont think I have sufficient evidence that this new fault was present
or developing from the beginning. On the other hand if it is the same fault I dont
think I have sufficient evidence that the repair completed in the early part of 2022
was completed properly.
Unfortunately, as the car has now been returned and probably auctioned, it is no longer
possible to arrange an independent inspection. Ive thought about whether that has
disadvantaged Mr F, but I dont think it has. I can see from correspondence between Mr F
and Mi that it has always been the business position that an independent inspection would
be necessary and Mr F didnt choose to commission one.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not currently inclined to uphold this complaint.
Mi didnt provide any further comments for me to consider but Mr F did.
He explained that it wasnt possible to book an MOT at the time because the car was off the 
road and also because of extensive backlogs. So, he didnt think the MOT should be 
factored into my decision.
He also thought it was unfair that because he had taken the car to a local mechanic, who he 
had used for many years, it should weigh against him. He said hed been in contact with the 
dealership prior to the April 2022 repair and they should have told him to proceed differently 
rather than agree that the work could be carried out by a third party. He said that a different 
mechanic may not be able to diagnose a problem they hadnt previously been involved in.
He also explained:
 to claim that our mechanics work is inadequate, at the time he repaired the turbo and 1
injector that had been damaged in the turbo blowing however after the vehicle being back on
the road a week the remaining injectors failed which were a result of the damage previously
caused.
We asked Mann Island on numerous occasions to have someone come out and inspect the
vehicle we had never any issue with this, but this never happened.
I had 3 children in this vehicle on both occasions which could have ended up very differently
out of 10 months of owning this vehicle, we had 4 months driving that says a lot in my eyes.
I find it very difficult to understand how this inspection has taken so many turns and how
dramatic this decision is from the previous report. The vehicle off this engine was worked 
with and I have asked both the dealer and Mann Island to answer why because if this engine 
was worked with previously this would indicate issues with the vehicle, but this question is 
one that goes unanswered and seems to be continuously bi passed. We have various 
makes of vehicle over the years  and have never come across a vehicle of such value, 
mileage, age be so unreliable and unfit for purpose.
Also, the issues with these vehicles of this year make and model are never ending and still
ongoing, so I think the statistics alone and over all complaints not to mention the dieselgate
scandals that are involving these vehicles also have a lot to explain in the issues with this
vehicle.Overall, I think it's very unfair that hardworking people should be at the fall for larger
companies taking cuts to increase profits at the expense of innocent people and their 
families.
The impact this has had on our family is unexplainable and now has arisen with this just to
create more for us. Not just financially but also mentally due to stress {sic)
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Fs additional comments, but theyve not persuaded me to change my 
decision on this complaint.
Whilst I appreciate Mr Fs explanation of the MOT situation in the country, I didnt factor in 
the missed MOT into my decision, so any delay isnt relevant to it.
I dont think Mr F has been disadvantaged by having his car fixed elsewhere. There was 
always the opportunity to complete an independent inspection on this car to demonstrate the 
problem was one that Mi should be responsible for. Given the time Mr F had been in 
possession of the car I think the onus could only fairly be on him to commission that 
examination to prove his point. If hed been able to do that it wouldnt have mattered where 
the car had been repaired and any previous work on the car that may have indicated pre-
existing conditions could have been commented on.
Whilst Mr F talks about issues with this make and model and with dieselgate, Ive not been 
provided with sufficient evidence that this car was impacted by any of those issues, or that it 
was supplied in an unsatisfactory condition. Im not therefore asking Mi to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman