DRN-4216570
The complaint
Mr C and Ms G complain about HDI Global Specialty SEs (HDI) decision to decline their 
claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms G lost her watch while out shopping with Mr C. They made a claim under their policy, but 
this was declined by HDI on the basis they hadnt provided a receipt. Mr C and Ms G felt this 
was unfair as the watch was a gift to Ms G, so she didnt have a receipt. Ms G says she 
does have other evidence which HDI havent asked to see. Mr C and Ms G complained and 
HDI responded and explained the policy terms and conditions explain HDI will require proof 
of ownership for items over £2,500. HDI explained, without any proof of ownership, theyre 
unable to pay out for the claim.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mr C and Ms G. He thought HDI hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining the claim on the basis Mr C and Ms G hadnt provided proof of ownership of the 
watch. Mr C and Ms G disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr C and Ms G will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr C and Ms Gs home insurance policy booklet. This sets out the terms 
and conditions and describes the process for making a claim for personal possessions. 
Under a heading Will I need to provide you with receipts or any proof of ownership? it says, 
We will require proof of ownership and value predating the loss or damage for items over 
£2,500. If you are unable to provide this information we may choose to reduce your claim 
payment or refuse to pay your claim. 
It's not unusual or uncommon for insurers to ask for proof of ownership of a personal 
possession from a customer once a claim has been made for that item. So, given this is a 
normal part of the claim process, I cant say HDI are being unreasonable in asking for proof 
of ownership of Ms Gs watch. The policy schedule shows the watch Ms G is making a claim 
for is listed as a specified personal possession and is valued at £4,250. So, taking this into 
account, and given that the watch is worth more than £2,500, I cant say HDI are acting 
unfairly in applying this term to the claim. 
While I dont think its unreasonable for HDI to ask for proof of ownership, the dispute here 
relates to whether sufficient information has been provided. Ms G has provided information 
to HDI, and she says she has further information which they havent asked to see. HDI say 
theyre not satisfied Ms G has provided sufficient evidence to prove ownership. So, Ive 
looked to see whether thats fair in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I acknowledge the watch is listed on the policy schedule as a specified item, but I dont 
believe this, in itself, proves ownership. Insurers will generally ask customers to specify any 
high value items to enable them to apply their underwriting criteria and determine the risk 
those items might present. So, while I acknowledge Ms G says the watch was insured from 
the day it was bought, this doesnt prove ownership of the watch. 
HDI say examples of the proof of ownership they require would be a receipt or bank 
transaction. Ms G explains the watch was bought for her as a gift, so she doesnt have a 
receipt. She says she visited a retailer with her mother who paid for the watch, but shes 
unable to obtain any evidence of the transaction as shes no longer in contact with her 
mother. Although a receipt is generally the best form of proof of ownership evidence, its 
good industry practice to accept alternative forms of evidence as proof of ownership  
particularly in cases where the item which is subject of the claim was a gift. But, this would of 
course be subject to an insurer not having any other concerns about the claim.  
Ms G says she has the warranty certificate, paper of authenticity, the original box and photos 
of her wearing the watch  which she feels are adequate in proving ownership. I can see 
HDI instructed an agent, who Ill refer to as company C, to validate the claim. Company C 
interviewed Ms G and also prepared a witness statement. One of the points mentioned in the 
witness statement says I have provided a photo of the warranty certificate and the watch 
itself. These photos were taken on the day I purchased them, for insurance purposes. Ive 
seen the photos, and these do show a warranty certificate and a close-up photo of the watch 
 which matches the description on the warranty certificate and the specified item on the 
policy schedule. 
I can see company C then wrote to Ms G declining the claim. In relation to the photos, they 
said, these photos dont show she owned the watch. They also say, given Ms G told them 
these photos were taken for insurance purposes, they dont understand why she didnt also 
take a photo of the receipt at the same time. Company C also raise concerns about Ms Gs 
account of phone calls she claimed to have made to various stores after she discovered her 
watch was missing. Company C set out enquiries theyve made and how this raises 
questions about Ms Gs account. Its on this basis they, and HDI, say they require evidence 
of a receipt or bank transaction. I acknowledge Mr C and Ms G say they have other 
information and I also understand their reason for not being able to provide a receipt. But 
given the concerns raised by company C, at the point HDI considered the claim, I cant say 
HDI acted unfairly in asking for further information beyond what theyd received  and what 
Ms G says she can provide  to prove ownership.      
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr C and Ms G, but while I accept they have 
provided information to HDI which they believe is sufficient, given the information Ive seen, I 
cant say HDI are acting unreasonably in asking for further information as proof of 
ownership. I can see Ms G has recently obtained further information from the retailer where 
the watch was bought. I think its important to make clear my role isnt to determine the 
claim, but to look at whether HDI have acted fairly and reasonably in assessing the claim. 
Ive looked at the assessment of the claim and decision taken by HDI up to the point they 
addressed the complaint. And, as mentioned above, I cant say theyve acted unfairly based 
on the information they had at the time. Ms G explains the further information  which she 
says proves the purchase of the watch and its cost  has been sent to HDI. The further 
information will need to be considered by HDI so I cant comment on this information.  
I wish to reassure Mr C and Ms G Ive read and considered everything theyve sent in, but if I 
havent mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or 
thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Ms G to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman