DRN-3177389
The complaint
Mr M complains about the level of service esure Insurance Limited provided for his motor 
insurance policy. He wants compensation for the stress and inconvenience this caused.
What happened
Mr M told esure that he was spending time away from his residence at a family house. esure 
made further enquiries and thought it may need to re-rate the policy based on the risk 
address. Mr M provided evidence that his residence was his main address. And so esure 
agreed for this to remain on the policy, but subject to review. Mr M was unhappy with the 
stress this matter had caused him.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr M 
had told esure that he was spending more time at the family house. He thought Mr M was 
required by the policys terms and conditions to tell esure about any change in his 
circumstances. He thought esure had reasonably asked for more information about Mr Ms 
address. And he thought it had reasonably allowed Mr Ms residence to remain on his policy. 
So he didnt think esure had done anything wrong.
Mr M replied that he thought esure should have resolved the issue sooner than it had. He 
thought it should compensate him for his stress and inconvenience. Mr M asked for an 
ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has told us that he thought esure could have resolved matters sooner by asking him 
early on how often he stayed at his familys house rather than his main residence. He 
thought this would have avoided stress and trauma for himself. I was sorry to hear about the 
effects this matter has had on Mr M. 
Like our Investigator, Ive looked at how this matter arose, and Ive listened to the calls and 
read the emails between the parties. I can see that Mr M called esure to make a claim on his 
policy. He told esure that he was visiting his family address and may stay there longer. He 
then discussed changing his address on his policy. In a later call he said he was staying 
more often at his familys house because of his health issues. Mr M wanted his car to be 
repaired at a garage close to his familys house, which was two hours away from his 
residence. 
And so I think this reasonably raised concerns with esure because it may have changed the 
risk it had agreed to insure. It said if a car was being parked at different addresses then it 
would rate the premium based on the highest rated address. In this case, it was Mr Ms 
familys address. I think esure had reasons to think that Mr M was living between the two 
addresses. And so I think esure acted fairly and reasonably when it asked Mr M to change 
the address on his policy. 
This would have meant an additional premium of £200. And I can understand that Mr M was 
unhappy with this and thought his permanent address should remain on his policy. And I 
think esure reasonably listened to his concerns and asked for further information about how 
often he stayed at his family house. I can understand that Mr M thought this was intrusive, 
but I think it was reasonable for esure to try and establish the risks it was undertaking. 
Mr M provided proof that his permanent address was still current and explained how often he 
stayed with his family. And esure then agreed to withdraw its request for him to change his 
address, though it said it would review this if further information came to light 
Mr M thought esure should have asked him earlier how often he stayed in the family home. 
But I think hed told esure in the initial call that he was staying at his family address. And I 
can see from the email chains that it took some repetition of the question before Mr M 
provided a suitable response. 
So I cant say that esure treated Mr M unfairly or unreasonably. And, as Im satisfied it didnt 
do anything wrong, I dont require it to pay Mr M any compensation for his trouble and 
stress. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold thus complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman