DRN-3614314
The complaint
Miss M complains about WDP Insurance Limited (WDP) who declined her claim, following 
the loss of her mobile phone, under her gadget insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss M left her home with her phone in her pocket. She later returned home to discover that 
the phone was no longer in her pocket. She retraced her steps and couldnt find her phone, 
so she contacted WDP to make a claim. 
During the course of the claims process, WDP asked Miss M about the usage of her phone. 
Specifically, it asked if the SIM card used in it had been used in any other phone. At the 
time, Miss M said no, as she wasnt aware that a family member had on occasion used her 
SIM in a different phone. When she discovered this, she reported it to WDP. 
As WDP doubted the accuracy of the usage reports and based on the information Miss M 
provided surrounding the use of the contracted SIM card, her claim was declined. WDP said 
that it didnt believe that the incident described took place. Miss M was given her referral 
rights and referred a complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said 
that there were no policy terms that would mean Miss M couldnt remove the SIM from her 
phone and use it in another phone. And because of this he didnt think there was enough 
evidence to show that the loss didnt occur. He recommended that WDP settle the claim as 
per the remaining policy terms, pay Miss M £100 for the trouble and upset caused and 
remove Miss M from any fraud markers or databases. 
Miss M accepted the view, WDP did not. It said that from the usage information, the SIM 
card was used in different devices in the lead up to the incident, none of which had been 
disclosed by Miss M. It felt that Miss M had lied about the phone usage and because of this, 
it didnt believe the incident took place and declined the claim. It asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint. And I hope my findings go some way in 
explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I have been provided with and read the policy terms and conditions, evidence of the proof of 
usage (POU) and I have also carefully considered what both parties have said. Essentially, 
WDP said that it didnt believe the incident took place as Miss M had lied about the phone 
usage. 
I have considered the policy terms and conditions and I cant find any term contained within 
the policy that states that Miss M was prevented from removing the SIM card from her phone 
and using it in another phone. 
WDP had relied upon the POU and whilst I accept that the SIM was used in two different 
phones, I dont think that this is enough evidence to prove that the loss of the phone didnt 
occur as Miss M said. 
Moreover, on the date of loss the evidence shows that the SIM was in the phone and indeed 
had been in the phone in the month prior to the loss. 
I think an insurer can reasonably decline a claim where it is found to be false or 
exaggerated. But in order to do so, I think it would have to show persuasive evidence that 
the claim was false or exaggerated. Based on the evidence before me, and despite Miss M 
giving incorrect information when asked about the use of the SIM card, I dont think WDP 
has provided enough persuasive evidence to show that the claim was false or exaggerated. 
And it hasnt provided enough evidence to show that the loss didnt occur as Miss M 
described. 
I do think that Miss M suffered from minor impact due to the stress and inconvenience. And 
for this, I think WDP ought to pay her £100 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Putting things right
Consequently, I dont think WDP came to a fair decision when it declined Miss Ms claim. 
And I think that WDP should put matters right as I direct below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold this complaint. 
WDP Insurance Limited should:
Settle the claim as per the remaining policy terms.
Pay Miss M £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Remove Miss M from any fraud databases and remove any fraud markers on her, if
applicable.
WDP Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the above amounts from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 September 2022.
 Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman