DRN-3565452
The complaint
Mr N complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) failed to refund around 
£7,000 he lost to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions set out by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
It isnt in dispute that Mr N authorised the disputed payments he made to the 
cryptocurrency exchange platforms using his Nationwide debit card (where his funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammer Markets4Now from his crypto 
wallets). The payments were requested by him using his legitimate security credentials 
provided by Nationwide, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow the 
instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made as 
instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Nationwide should have done more to prevent Mr N 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. 
For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Mr N has lost almost £7,000 which is a significant amount of 
money. But this amount wasnt paid in one single large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over 12 separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not have 
appeared particularly unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Ns spending 
history, such that they ought to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating that he 
might have been at risk of falling victim to a scam. The payments were not of such an 
amount, for example, that they would represent a significant deviation from the way 
Mr Ns account had previously operated.
I also acknowledge there were occasions where more than one payment was made in 
the same day to various crypto platforms, such as two payments being made on 
27 February 2021 to Cryptopayin. And I accept that a series of payments being made in 
quick succession to the same merchant can often be indicative of fraudulent activity. 
However, two payments made on the same day cannot reasonably be considered a 
series of payments. And the two payments he made on 27 February 2021 also only 
totaled around £873 which, cumulatively, wouldnt have appeared overly unusual for an 
amount to be spent in one day. The same would also therefore apply to the payments 
Mr N made on 3 and 10 April 2021.
I also appreciate there was an FCA warning published about the merchant Markets4Now 
at the time Mr N made the payments. However, the payments were not being made 
directly to the merchant, so there would have been no reason for Nationwide to have 
intervened on the basis of the payee being named on the regulators watchlist. 
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr N reported the fraud, because in some circumstances the money can be 
recovered via the bank raising a chargeback dispute. However, in these circumstances, 
Mr N used his debit card to pay legitimate crypto-exchange platforms before the funds 
were subsequently transferred on to the scammer. So, he wouldnt be able to make a 
successful chargeback claim in these circumstances because the company he paid had 
provided the services as intended (i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency). Therefore, I do 
not think Nationwide were under any obligation to raise a chargeback for Mr N either.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr N, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Nationwide liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman