DRN-2645430
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are complaining about investment decisions made by Rathbone Investment 
Management Limited trading as Rathbones. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C had been clients of Rathbones since 2016. In 2018, Mr C told Rathbones that 
theyd like to invest a significant sum of money. But then Mr and Mrs C decided to wait until 
things became clearer around the UK exit from the EU. 
In December 2019, Mr C let Rathbones know they were keen to start investing. Mr and 
Mrs C sent £115,000 to Rathbones to invest on their behalf as part of their discretionary 
management service. Rathbones made various investments between January and early 
March 2020. 
The global pandemic had a significant impact on the financial markets, and Mr and Mrs C 
feel that Rathbones didnt consider this when making some of the investments on their 
behalf. Specifically, Mr and Mrs C are complaining about 6 separate investments made in 
late February and early March 2020, at a total cost of around £33,000. They said the 
investments dropped in value by around £7,500 (around 22%) almost immediately. They 
complained that Rathbones had taken undue risks given the threat to the economy at the 
time.
Rathbones didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. They said Mr and Mrs C had given them 
full discretion to buy and sell investments. They said Mr C had expressed disappointment on 
21 February that not all of the money had been invested. In light of a fall in the market and 
given Mr Cs comments, the investment manager decided to invest in three funds on 
24 February. They explained that investors had taken confidence that week from a G20 
meeting which suggested central banks would support their economies if the coronavirus 
outbreak worsened. And they said their view was that although there would be damage to 
global growth in the short-term, a gradual recovery in the global economy was likely.
Rathbones added that Mr and Mrs C had experience of investing and would have 
understood that portfolio values rise and fall and that equities should be viewed as long-term 
investments. They said that the investments were in line with the agreed investment 
mandate, and that the investment managers involved had used their judgement and acted in 
good faith when investing on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf. They said all investment purchases 
were made on the understanding their longer-term outlook was much better than the market 
price at the time.
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with Rathbones response so they brought their complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked at the complaint and came to the view that Rathbones had acted 
fairly and reasonably. She said the investments Rathbones made had matched the risk 
profile Mr and Mrs C had agreed to, so she thought they were suitable. In considering the 
investment timing, our investigator said Rathbones wouldnt have known the full extent of the 
economic impact of the pandemic. So she thought it wasnt unfair for Rathbones to try to 
take advantage of a fall in market prices. And she mentioned that equities are usually 
considered long-term investments so if fund values take a short-term hit they normally return 
to growth over the period of investment.   
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with our investigator. Mr C said Rathbones had taken unnecessary 
risks with his and his wifes money. He said hes specifically asked Rathbones not to ignore 
market trends in making the investments and expected them to be very aware of the 
evolution of the pandemic. Mr C provided several articles from the time which he said 
demonstrates that Rathbones should have known the impact of the pandemic on global 
markets would be significant. He said he didnt feel he and his wife should have to suffer 
because Rathbones had underestimated the impact on the market.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I appreciate itll be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs C, Im not upholding their 
complaint. My reasoning is along the same lines as our investigators  Ill explain in more 
detail below.
In making my decision on this complaint, Ive considered what the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) expects of Rathbones in this sort of situation. The FCAs Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook (COBS) sets out these expectations in chapter 9. COBS 9.2 says a 
firm must ensure a decision to trade is suitable for its client, taking into account the clients 
knowledge and experience of relevant investments, their financial situation, and their 
investment objectives. It says a clients investment objectives must include their attitude to 
risk, purpose of investing, and timeframe for the investment.
COBS 9.2 also says a firm must have reasonable basis for believing that the trade meets the 
clients investment objectives, that the client can financially withstand the risks of the 
investment, and that the client has the necessary experience to understand the risks 
involved in the management of their portfolio.
Below, Ive set out why I think Rathbones met the requirements of COBS 9.2. Then Ive 
briefly addressed Mr Cs additional comments about the timing of the investments hes 
complaining about.
Why Rathbones met the requirements of COBS 9.2
When Mr and Mrs C first became clients of Rathbones in 2016, they completed and signed a 
document called Client agreement and profile.  In this document, both Mr and Mrs C 
marked their risk profile as medium and their investment objective as balanced. The 
document gives descriptions of the risk profiles and states: 
A medium risk portfolio will aim over time to achieve returns above the rate of inflation and 
should reflect the majority of the fluctuation in value of major equity markets A medium risk 
portfolio would be suitable for investors with a medium time horizon and capacity to accept a 
temporary or, rarely, permanent capital loss. 
In the same document, Mr and Mrs C wrote We are looking for capital growth and income 
from our investments, on a medium risk basis. And they marked their investment time 
horizon as six to ten years.
The document also asked Mr and Mrs C to give details of their previous experience of 
investing and their financial situation. Its clear that Mr and Mrs C had a good income and generally kept their spending within their income. They also had significant assets, and they 
had previous experience of investing over more than 10 years.
Mr and Mrs C completed risk profiles again in July 2018. At this time, they stated that their 
risk tolerance was at level 2 (lower risk) but agreed that the portfolio would be at level 4 to 
help generate the income and capital growth. 
In January 2020, before investing any of Mr and Mrs Cs money, Rathbones asked Mr and 
Mrs C to complete a short form. In this form, signed by Mr and Mrs C, they said there was no 
change to their risk profile, or to their investment objective. And they confirmed they wanted 
their investments managed on a discretionary basis moving forward. 
In early February 2020, Rathbones asked Mr and Mrs C for an update on their financial 
situation and to confirm whether their risk profiles had changed from the information theyd 
given in July 2018. Mr C replied in late February, saying their risk profiles hadnt changed. 
He also provided information about their financial situation, showing that it was still strong. 
I appreciate Mr Cs said there was some debate about their risk profile and that he and 
Mrs C had a lower attitude to risk and that they were persuaded by Rathbones to go for a 
medium risk portfolio. And I can see this from Mr Cs notes from a call on 5 March, and from 
the suitability assessment Rathbones completed on or around the same date. Given Mr and 
Mrs Cs objectives of achieving capital growth and income  and their six to ten year 
timeframe, I dont think it was unreasonable for Rathbones to suggest a medium risk 
portfolio. In addition, Mr Cs late February email confirmed he was happy with the level 2 risk 
tolerance and level 4 risk portfolio.
I know Mr Cs also commented that a ten year time frame wasnt appropriate for him and 
Mrs C as they were both in their late 70s. And I can understand this comment, especially as 
theyd said they were looking at a six to ten year horizon rather than a longer term. But I 
dont think Rathbones would have invested differently if theyd been clear it was a six year 
horizon rather than a ten year horizon.
In summary, Im satisfied Rathbones gathered all the necessary information about Mr and 
Mrs C and updated this before making the disputed trades. Im satisfied it was reasonable 
for Rathbones to believe Mr and Mrs C were happy with a medium risk portfolio, aiming to 
achieve income and capital growth, over a six to ten year timeframe. And I think, given their 
circumstances, this risk level was appropriate for Mr and Mrs C.
Ive looked at the specific investments Mr and Mrs C are complaining about. They comprise 
six different funds, two focussing on UK equities, one on US equities, two on Asian equities, 
and one on UK corporate bonds. Id consider this to be a mix of higher and medium risk 
funds to invest in, but note that each individual fund was highly diversified, and that Mr and 
Mrs Cs portfolio as a whole was very diverse  so even where the funds might be 
considered higher risk, the exposure to any given equity or bond, or even to a specific global 
region, was low. 
Ive also seen each of these funds were listed on the proposal Rathbones sent to Mr and 
Mrs C in December 2019, so Mr and Mrs C could have disputed any of them if they werent 
comfortable with the investment. Its clear Mr and Mrs C had many years of investing 
experience so Im satisfied theyd have had the knowledge and experience to do this.
In addition, the investments Mr and Mrs C are complaining about totalled around £33,000, 
with the largest individual investment being £8,000. Against the backdrop of their overall 
financial position, this didnt give them significant exposure. Taking all of this together, Im satisfied that Rathbones complied with the requirements of 
COBS 9.2. Im happy the investments they made matched Mr and Mrs Cs investment 
objectives. And it was reasonable for Rathbones to believe that Mr and Mrs C had enough 
investing experience to understand the risks associated with the portfolio and could 
financially withstand the risks of the investments.
Additional comments from Mr C
Im aware Mr C and Mrs Cs concern is largely around the timing of the investments 
Rathbones made. I can understand why  as Rathbones explained at the time, the markets 
were highly volatile around February and March 2020 and hit a low point around a week 
after Rathbones made the last investments for Mr and Mrs C. 
Mr Cs commented that Rathbones took unnecessary risks by investing their clients money 
in a falling market. But Rathbones say they were trying to take advantage of lower fund 
prices, and werent trying to call the bottom of the market. Their view was that the markets 
would recover fairly quickly and over the medium to long term the funds would achieve the 
capital growth and income that Mr and Mrs C were looking for.
Mr Cs sent us a large number of articles which he says demonstrate the amount of concern 
there was in the press about coronavirus at the time. And he says in this context, Rathbones 
should have known the impact it would have on the global financial markets. Although I can 
understand Mr Cs view, it doesnt change my decision. There are a few points which Ive 
considered:
Mr C sent Rathbones an email on 21 February expressing disappointment that they 
hadnt yet invested all of Mr and Mrs Cs money. So its understandable that 
Rathbones understood this as an instruction to invest more.
Mr C sent another email on 24 February which included slightly mixed messages. He 
responded to Rathbones comment that the market had fallen that morning with 
Sounds like good timing! but then went on to say However, I certainly would not 
want you to ignore market trends or common sense, and for you to invest against 
those, just to please me. Although Mr Cs interpretation of this is that he essentially 
told Rathbones not to invest because of the market conditions, thats not my 
interpretation, and I think it was reasonable for Rathbones to continue with what they 
believed were sound investment decisions.
The timing of Mr Cs complaints demonstrates a very short-term view which contrasts 
with his and Mrs Cs six to ten year timeframe and their understanding of the stock 
markets. He first raised his concerns within just a few days, and submitted a formal 
complaint to Rathbones within a month of the first trades. I note that one year on, five 
of the six funds have increased in value against the price Mr and Mrs C paid for 
them. Whilst its not appropriate to apply hindsight, this demonstrates the importance 
of the investment time horizon. Rathbones believed Mr and Mrs C were investing 
over the medium to long-term so short term volatility wasnt a significant concern.
Its clear now that Mr C strongly believes its wrong to invest in a falling market. But I 
cant see that he shared that view with Rathbones before these investments were 
made. Theres no regulatory or contractual requirement that says Rathbones 
shouldnt have invested in a falling market.  
In summary, Im satisfied that Rathbones decision to invest on Mr and Mrs Cs behalf was 
reasonable even in the circumstances at the time given what they knew about Mr and 
Mrs Cs investment objectives, financial situation, and experience of investing. My final decision
As Ive explained above Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman