DRN-2309305
The complaint
Ms G complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down a baggage claim she made on her
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Ms G was planning to travel abroad on a cruise holiday, through a tour company. The tour
company was to transport Ms Gs partys luggage while Ms G took a charter flight to the
departure point. Unfortunately, all of the luggage was stolen during the transfer in an armed
robbery.
The tour company offered to pay each of Ms Gs party up to $2000 so they could replace
essential items and continue on the trip. Ms G paid out around £784 for necessary
replacement items. Ultimately, the tour company paid Ms G around £1534, after exchange
rates were applied  around £749 more than shed spent buying replacement items.
Ms G made a claim on her travel insurance policy for around £1044. She said many of the
replacement items werent equivalent to things shed had before (a specialist coat for
example) and some of the things didnt fit her fully. So she felt AWP should reimburse her for
these items. She didnt include the cost of items shed been able to replace on a like-for-like
basis.
AWP turned down Ms Gs claim. It said the theft of the luggage had happened while it had
been in the care of the tour company  so it was liable for its loss, even though it wasnt its
fault. It said the purpose of insurance was to put a policyholder in the position they were in
before their claim. It felt the payment from the tour company had indemnified Ms G for her
loss. And it said if it paid the claim, shed be in a better position than shed been in before the
luggage was stolen. It also explained the policy didnt provide like-for-like cover.
Ms G didnt agree with AWP. She said there was no insurance contract between her and the
tour company and it had paid her settlement as a gesture of goodwill. So she didnt feel it
represented duplicate insurance. And she didnt feel it was fair of AWP to expect her to
accept inadequate replacement items  some of which shed left behind when she returned
to the UK. She asked us to look into her complaint.
Our investigator thought Ms Gs complaint should be upheld. He felt that while the tour
companys payment had partly indemnified her for her losses, she hadnt been able to
replace her stolen items on a like-for-like basis. So he recommended that AWP should
calculate the difference in price between the items thatd been stolen and the non-equivalent
items Ms G had had to replace them with.
AWP disagreed. It said the situation was similar to compensation from an airline for lost
luggage, which is deducted from the settlement of a claim by an insurer. It said the amount
of Ms Gs total claim was less than shed been paid by the tour company, so shes better off
than she was before. And it said the policy doesnt provide like-for-like cover, so the
replacement things she bought are of no relevance.
I issued my provisional decision on 25 September 2020. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I thought it was fair for AWP to turn down Ms Gs claim. I said:
Insurance policies are designed to cover unforeseen, unexpected events. The events
insurers choose to cover or not to cover are set out in their policies. Insurance contracts are
contracts of indemnity  their purpose is to put a policyholder in the same position they were
in immediately before the loss. Theyre not designed to put a policyholder in a better position
than they were beforehand.
Theres no dispute that Ms G suffered a distressing loss, through no fault of her own. Im
pleased the tour company was able to assist her in replacing the essential items she needed
for her trip. I also agree that the relationship with the tour company wasnt a contract of
insurance  so the settlement it paid Ms G wasnt an insurance pay-out.
But its clear that the payment Ms G received was intended, at least in part, to replace her
lost luggage and enable her to buy essentials for her trip. In fact, the tour company paid Ms
G around £750 more than the cost of the essentials she bought. This suggests it also
covered the cost of other items which were stolen, but which Ms G hadnt urgently needed to
buy before she departed.
Ive looked at the details of Ms Gs claim. She claimed around £1044 for the items she said
she hadnt been able to replace on a like-for-like basis; wouldnt have chosen herself or
which didnt necessarily fully fit. This is substantially less than the amount she got from the
tour company. She told AWP she hadnt claimed for the replacements shed bought which
she did consider were equivalent. But I havent seen enough to persuade me that the total
value of Ms Gs stolen luggage was more than £1534.
It seems to me that while the payment Ms G received wasnt an insurance pay-out, it did
indemnify her financially for her losses and allow her to replace the stolen items. Even if they
werent items shed have chosen except through necessity. So I think the pay-out put her in
the financial position she was in immediately before the theft. In my view, if I were to direct
AWP to make any payment to Ms G, shed be better-off than she was immediately before 
the claim, because shed effectively have been paid-out twice for the same event. If though, 
Ms G has evidence to show her luggage was worth more than the total pay-out she 
received, I might think it would be reasonable for AWP to reconsider the claim.
Ms Gs policy covers lost baggage. But it isnt a new-for-old policy and it doesnt provide like-
for-like cover. If the claim had been payable, AWP wouldve paid Ms G a cash settlement, in
line with the policy limits so she could buy replacement items. AWP isnt responsible for the
fact that Ms G wasnt able to buy exactly the same things she had before. And while she
wasnt able to replace her existing things with the same or equivalent items, any product
differences simply arent covered by the terms of Ms Gs policy.
Based on all Ive seen so far, I think the tour companys payment indemnified Ms G for her
losses. So I dont think AWP needs to settle her claim. I currently think its treated her fairly.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence they wanted me to take into account.
AWP didnt respond to my provisional decision.Ms G didnt accept my provisional findings. Ive summarised her response:
Given the difficulties in providing further evidence of the cost of the items in the 
luggage, she didnt think shed have more to add;
She felt my decision would act as a precedent and it was important it made the 
principles involved in this case clear  that because she had received money from 
the tour company, she couldnt recover anything from AWP;
If shed received money as another insurance payment (i.e. from her credit card 
provider), she accepts that should be taken into account. But my decision suggests 
that any money received from any source should be offset against an insurers 
liability. 
Ms G queried certain scenarios which might potentially impact on a policyholders 
liability and asked whether there had to be an explicit link with the luggage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I still think it was fair for AWP to turn down Ms Gs claim and Ill explain 
why.
Its important that I explain that when considering a complaint, we look at the circumstances 
and merits of that individual complaint to decide whats fair and reasonable. We consider 
each case based on its own specific facts. It wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment on 
hypothetical scenarios or what mightve happened. My role is to consider what did happen; 
whether AWP considered Ms Gs claim fairly and whether it made any error thats caused 
her to lose out.
In this case, its clear that the theft of Ms Gs luggage happened while it was in the care of 
the tour company. Thats the reason why the tour company paid Ms G compensation. The 
payment the tour company made allowed Ms G to buy the essential items she needed to 
allow her to go ahead with her trip. And as Ive explained, it seems the compensation Ms G 
received was enough to also allow her to replace things that had been stolen, but she didnt 
require urgently for the trip.
The available evidence and the details of Ms Gs claim to AWP suggest its more likely than 
not that the compensation the tour company paid Ms G was enough to indemnify her for the 
full value of her loss. And Ms G hasnt provided any further evidence to show that the 
compensation she received wasnt enough to put her in the financial position she was in 
immediately before the theft. As Ive explained, the policy isnt a new-for-old policy and it 
doesnt offer like-for-like replacement of items. So AWP didnt need to ensure Ms G received 
direct replacements of the things she lost.
Overall, Im still satisfied that if I were to tell AWP to pay Ms G anything further, shed be 
better off financially than she was before the theft of her items. So Ive decided it was fair for 
AWP to turn down her claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman