DRN-1793638
The complaint
Miss Bs unhappy with the way CIS General Insurance Limited have settled her claim under 
her motor insurance policy.
A representative has been used to bring this complaint on behalf of Miss B, but for simplicity 
Ill mainly refer to her in this decision.
What happened
In March 2019 Miss B was driving on a motorway and says a lorry hit the passenger side of 
her car. She says she had to flag the lorry down to show them the damage. During the 
course of her claim she found out CIS were settling her claim in the other persons favour as 
a result of an independent witness statement. She was also unhappy they didnt ask for 
CCTV footage of the accident to support her claim as she says they would  so she 
complained about these issues.
CIS says when they spoke to Miss B they set her expectations the claim may be settled in 
the other persons favour depending on the evidence provided. And CIS said theyd told 
Miss B, on the phone and then later on by text message, she needed to try and get the 
CCTV footage herself due to changes in data protection rules. They say they gave her the 
information needed to try and track it down. And because they didnt hear back from her, 
they didnt think theyd done anything wrong in handling her claim based on the information 
they had.
Unhappy with this Miss B asked us to look into things  saying she was concerned there was 
a witness statement produced because no one else was around at the time of the incident.
We looked into Miss Bs concerns, and our investigators ultimately found CIS have acted 
fairly when deciding how to settle liability.
Miss B didnt agree though. She maintained the wrong information had been given about the 
CCTV and had the right information been given then there wouldnt have been any 
independent witness statement. Miss B also had concerns over how long it took for this 
statement to be provided. Because of this the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain CIS are allowed to take over the negotiations of how the claim 
should be settled. This is included in Miss Bs policy documents and is generally included in 
most motor insurance policies of this type.
This means its CIS decision on how to settle the claim, and I cant decide liability as thats 
something a court would decide. But I can look at all the information provided to see if I think 
CIS have acted fairly when deciding how to settle Miss Bs claim. 
CIS have said they contacted Miss B on several occasions to try and get more information 
from her  but they never received anything. 
It seems for a period of time CIS had Miss Bs incorrect address, and I can see on at least 
one occasion a letter was returned from the address it was sent to. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest Miss B updated her address with CIS before they sent these letters, so I cant fairly 
say they did anything wrong here.
Im aware there was a phone call in June 2019 where Miss B asked CIS to send the 
paperwork out to her by email. Its unclear if Miss B ever received this  but I cant say the 
information shed have provided would have definitely made a difference. Miss B was also 
aware she had the opportunity to provide this information, and Ive not seen anything to 
show she did.
Ive noted Miss Bs concerns about how long the claim has gone on for. But I think at least 
some of that has been caused by CIS not receiving back the information they asked for. As 
Ive explained above, I dont think I can reasonably say thats CISs fault. Ive also gone 
through the history of the claim and cant see theyve caused any unreasonable delays but 
can see on occasions the other insurer has taken some time to reply. I cant hold CIS 
responsible for that.
Miss B has said that CIS not getting the CCTV is whats allowed the witness statement to be 
produced. And shes said she doesnt understand how there can be a witness statement at 
all given there was no one around at the time.
CIS have said the CCTV was something they told Miss B shed need to get. So, Ive listened 
to the call where this was discussed. CIS do say on this call they might be able to get the 
CCTV, but also say they may need Miss B to get it due to data protection reasons. CIS have 
said after this call, which took place on the day after the accident, they text the number they 
were asked to in the original call. The text explains how to get the CCTV and encourages 
Miss B to get it herself.
CIS have explained the reason theyve done this is due to data protection reasons. This 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me and is something I can hear they explained when first 
speaking to Miss B in the phone call the day after the accident. I do think though CIS have 
given Miss B and her representative mixed messages about the CCTV  telling her theyd 
need to get it while also saying shed need to get it herself. But we also cant be sure any 
CCTV would have proved Miss Bs version of events. We dont know for certain whether it 
was pointing the right way, if it was working, or if it may have gone against her anyway. And, 
I can see Miss B was told how to get it herself and didnt. So, Im satisfied CIS overall did 
just about enough on this point.
In relation to the witness statement Ive noted Miss Bs concerns about how long it took for 
this to be produced. But Ive seen the witness statement, and I dont think CIS have acted 
unfairly in taking it into account. I also cant hold them responsible for how long it took to 
provide as it was the other insurers who took some time to produce it.
Initially CIS were going to register the claim as a 50 / 50 liability  but after receipt of the 
witness statement felt they had no choice but to hold Miss B fully liable for the claim. It may 
help to explain that in any situation where an accident has occurred, if CIS werent able to 
recover any costs theyve paid out then itd be classed as a fault claim. So, Miss B was 
always going to have a fault claim registered against her, even if it was settled as a 50 / 50 
liability. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied CIS did enough to make Miss B aware that she could have got the CCTV. I dont think theyve caused any unreasonable delays, I cant say 
they were wrong in taking into account the witness statement, and Miss B will need to 
declare a fault claim in future when asked.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman