DRN-3128394
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with a cash settlement offered by AXA Insurance UK Plc following a claim
he made on his home insurance policy. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr D and AXA. I wont repeat in
detail what is already known to both parties.
In summary, Mr D tried to make a claim under the buildings section of his home insurance
policy for damage to his propertys roof and also internal damage to the property. AXA
appointed a surveyor who found that there was no evidence of storm damage, but given the
roofs design and visible damage, it was likely that rain water had been entering the property
for some time. They therefore repudiated the claim for damage to the roof as they felt it was
caused by wear and tear. Mr D disputed this and has said that the roof was completed less
than two years ago.
AXA said that as Mr D had taken out buildings accidental damage cover, theyd consider the
internal damage to the property. A figure of around £2,000 was proposed as a cash
settlement.
Mr D was unhappy and complained to AXA. He was unhappy with the repudiation of the roof
damage claim and he felt that AXA shouldve either appointed their own contractors to carry
out remedial internal property works, or pay one of the quotes hed obtained. Because AXA
were unwilling to agree with Mr D and the damage was worsening due to adverse weather,
Mr D went ahead and arranged for a contractor to carry out the works.
AXA didnt uphold his complaint, so Mr D referred the complaint to our service for an
independent review. Our investigator upheld the complaint. AXA responded to our
investigators recommendations but didnt fully accept them.
The complaint was then passed to me for a decision. Both parties were sent a copy of 
provisional findings on 25 November 2021 and asked to respond with any new evidence or 
further comments. Mr D accepted the decision. AXA responded to say theyd no further 
points to make. 
Ive now reconsidered the complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence or arguments have been presented by either party, I see no fair and 
reasonable decision to depart from my provisional findings. As they form part of this - my 
final decision, Ive included a copy below.
Copy of provisional findings
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Mr D has been
assisted by his wife when bringing this complaint. In my decision Ill only refer to Mr D as he
is the policy holder.
When considering the complaint Ive to decide if AXA fairly and reasonably considered the
claim in line with the policy terms. Ill also be deciding if AXA have treated Mr D fairly overall.
The claim for the roof damage
The actual cause of the damage is in dispute. I accept AXAs position that the type of
damage being claimed for here isnt storm damage - given historic weather records from
around the time of the claim.
Nesting birds were identified as a potential cause by an agent on Mr Ds behalf. In an email
to our service dated 15 July 2021, AXA said they were struggling to see where theyd
referenced vermin as an exclusion. But a note from AXAs agent to Mr D dated 17 February
2021 disputes this:
Called policyholder to  Apologise for him being unhappy and that I have raised a
complaint regarding the external damage decision - Advise following further review
the external damage would be repudiated still as if the damage was caused by bird
nesting and chewing through the membrane then this is an exclusion on the
policy [bold for emphasis by ombudsman] on page 5 - No answer  left voicemail
Another AXA system note from 18 February 2021 refers to Insureds roofer advised it was 
due to birds nesting and chewing through the membraneWe advised this would not be 
covered as it is an exclusion on the policy
The reason I point this out is because the policy is very specific that claims related to
damage caused by vermin (which the terms define as rats, mice, squirrels, owls, pigeons,
foxes, bees, wasps or hornets) are excluded. Applying this exclusion to this scenario, I
interpret the policy as excluding damage caused by pigeons rather than damage caused by
any species of bird - as pigeons are the only named.
But no compelling evidence has been provided by AXA that it was pigeons that were nesting
in the roof that ultimately lead to water gaining access through the roof. Ive also considered
the evidence from Mr Ds appointed contractor about pigeons nesting in roofs not being
typical of Mr Ds area. This may well be accurate.
However, for the purposes of my decision, ultimately I dont need to make a finding on
whether it was or wasnt pigeons that were nesting in Mr Ds roof that caused the damage.
I say this because Im reasonably persuaded based on the relevant reports and photos of
the subsequent internal damage that it hasnt happened overnight. Having already ruled out
storm damage as the likely cause, this leads me to conclude  on balance, the damage
wasnt instant and happened over time.
Under the policy terms, damage caused by gradual deterioration or maintenance (as relied
upon by AXA in their final response letter) is excluded. For the reasons Ive outlined, Im
reasonably satisfied that this more likely than not was gradual damage over a period of time.
Therefore I find that AXA can fairly and reasonably rely on this exclusion to decline the claim
for damage to the roof.The claim for accidental damage (buildings)
AXA went on to accept a claim under another part of this policy - for damage to the interior of
the property. As AXA accepted the claim and agreed to settle it, its important to state that
the scope of my decision isnt about the merits of that accepted claim, but to decide if AXA
have settled this part of the claim fairly, reasonably and in line with the policy terms.
For reasons Ill now explain, I dont find their cash settlement fair or reasonable.
When settling this claim, the relevant policy term is:
We may repair, reinstate or replace the lost or damaged property. If we cannot
replace or repair the property we may pay for the loss or damage in cash or cash
alternative (including vouchers and/or store cards)...
Mr Ds testimony is that the AXA appointed surveyor told him if he accepted cash he could
appoint his own contractors. AXAs account on the other hand, is that their appointed
surveyor went to visit the property and offered a cash settlement. Theyve also said; The
surveyor confirmed to the customer that we could complete the works, if a cash settlement
wasnt accepted... But Im not persuaded by this for a number of reasons.
From the outset of this complaint, Mr D has been consistent that his preference was for AXA
to appoint contractors themselves to carry out the remedial works. This is also evident in his
communication with AXA whilst the claim and complaint were ongoing. AXAs internal claim
notes state:
Building repair costs £2025.28 I have discussed settlement with the policyholder and
advise as there is an ongoing issue with the roof which is not covered and requires
attention a cash settlement would be provided. The policyholder wishes to source
quotations prior to agree a settlement.
The above quote doesnt support that both options were given  rather that a cash
settlement was presented as the only option. Theres also no mention throughout AXAs
notes about making Mr D aware that he alternatively had the option of having AXA appointed
contractors carry out the work. AXA specifically have said that on 26 March their adviser
offered contractors to complete repairs. But AXAs contact note from that date doesnt
support what theyve told our service. The relevant note is:
Call back after correspondence received from Sedgwick - Ph wont accept
settlement. Email received copied below. Please see update on complaint. We have
been unable to agree a cash settlement with the insured after offering our final limit
of liability. We have offered £2,492.13 less excess for buildings & £263.93 for
bedroom carpet.. The insured is not happy with our settlement offer and will not
accept. I have attached the quote below. Spoke to [redacted] who advised to register
new complaint [redacted] and contact PH to offer to have our contractors
complete works if not accepting settlement offer. Before being able to offer this
Mrs had mentioned asking them on several occasions and being refused every
time due to covid. Arranged call back tomorrow.
Ive highlighted in bold what I consider to be key here. My interpretation is this note supports
that Mr D wanted the option of contractors appointed by AXA - but was refused. AXAs
contact notes show on 29 March their adviser contacted Mr D and it was discussed again
that the initial surveyor hadnt given the option of AXA appointing contractors. A further note
from 20 April 2021 documenting contact between AXA and their agent refers to the surveyorgiving the option on 15 February for contractors. But, again, Ive seen nothing to support that
this actually happened - such as an email or record of a conversation, or that it was clearly
communicated to Mr D.
On balance, Ive not seen sufficient evidence to support or persuade me that AXA offered
Mr D the option of appointing their own (AXA) contractors before offering the alternative cash
settlement.
The settlement amount
As our investigator has pointed out, AXA should be aware of our services long standing,
well established approach where an insurer accepts a claim as valid and offers a cash
settlement in a scenario like this. That is, where an insurer chooses to settle a claim in this
way, the settlement amount should be enough to put the insured back in the position they
were in prior to the loss/damage occurring. In this case, the proposed cash settlement
doesnt indemnify Mr D.
AXA have referred to the quotes Mr D obtained being much higher than their own estimates.
But the cost of repairs through an insurers appointed contractor can be different and usually
lower than the quotes Mr D would be able to access. I find that Mr D has been reasonable in
obtaining a number of quotes and also acted reasonably in going ahead (and choosing the
least expensive quote) to get the necessary repairs carried out - given the ongoing damage
being caused because of the weather at that time.
In an email dated 15 October 2021 (after our investigators assessment) AXA refer to
covering the cost of plasterboard only. I dont find this fair or reasonable. They also asked for
a further breakdown of Mr Ds costs as they believed them to be overstated. I find that the
invoice of costs provided by Mr D is sufficient to evidence the outlay for the remedial works
that were undertaken.
Putting things right
Given the trouble and upset that AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling of this claim, particularly 
the communication issues around the options available to Mr D, I direct AXA Insurance UK 
Plc to pay Mr D £125 in addition to settling the claim.
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc - subject to Mr D providing evidence that he has settled the 
invoice for the internal repair works to:
Pay Mr D the difference between the proposed cash settlement (less any policy 
excess) and the invoice Mr D has presented for the cost of his contractors
works*.
AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr D 8% simple interest per annum on this 
difference from the date he settled the invoice to the date that this further payment is 
made.
AXA Insurance UK Plc should also pay Mr D £125 for the trouble and upset caused 
by their actions.
*I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to cover the cost to Mr D of internal remedial works related 
to the claim only. My direction doesnt cover the cost of any repairs required to the roof of the 
property, the temporary repair that was undertaken or the emergency callout to investigate 
the roof.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AXA Insurance UK Plc should now follow my 
direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman