DRN-4202116
The complaint
Miss J complained through a representative that FUND OURSELVES LIMITED (Fund 
Ourselves) advanced her loans without carrying out sufficient affordability checks.
What happened
Miss J was advanced two loans and below is a table summarising her borrowing. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment 
1 £150.00 23/11/2021 15/12/2021 4 £73.80
2 £250.00 06/01/2022 outstanding 4 £119.50
Fund Ourselves has said that Miss J had some problems repaying her final loan and it is 
currently being repaid through a debt management plan. 
Following Miss Js complaint Fund Ourselves considered it and didnt uphold it because it 
said the loans were affordable for her, based on its checks. Miss Js representative didnt 
agree and instead referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator who didnt think Miss Js complaint should 
be upheld. He said this because proportionate checks had been carried out and there was 
no indication that either Miss J was in financial difficulties, or the loans couldnt be repaid in a 
sustainable manner. 
Miss Js representative didnt agree and asked for the case to be reviewed. As no agreement 
has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Fund Ourselves had to assess the lending to check if Miss J could afford to pay back the 
amounts shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Fund Ourselves checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Miss Js income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Fund Ourselves should 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss J. These factors 
include:
Miss J having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss J having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss J coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss J. As there were only two loans 
granted the adjudicator didnt think this applied to Miss Js complaint and I agree. 
Fund Ourselves was required to establish whether Miss J could sustainably repay the loans 
 not just whether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having 
enough money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss J was able 
to repay her loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Js complaint. Having considered all the information 
provided, I am also concluding that Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks and so 
it doesnt need to take any further action. 
As part of his application, Miss J declared a monthly income for both loans of £2,001. 
Fund Ourselves has shown that Miss Js income was checked through a report provided by 
a credit reference agency. The results of that check indicated the amount Miss J declared 
was likely to be accurate. 
Miss J was also asked to declare her outgoings across a number of different variables, such 
as outstanding debt, rent and travel. She declared these costs to be £810 for both loans. 
Miss J said she didnt have any housing costs but also declared she lived at home with 
parents. So, the fact there were little costs could be explained by her living arrangements. 
And so, given these were the first loans that Miss J had been granted, I do think it was 
reasonable for Fund Ourselves to have relied on the information she provided. 
Fund Ourselves believed, based on the information provided, that Miss J had enough 
disposable income to afford the largest monthly loan repayment she was committed to of 
£119.50. Therefore, it wouldve been reasonable for Fund Ourselves to believe the loans to 
be affordable for Miss J. 
Before the loans were approved Fund Ourselves also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that 
although Fund Ourselves carried out credit searches, there isnt a regulatory requirement to 
do one, let alone one to a specific standard. But what Fund Ourselves couldnt do is carry 
out a credit search and then not react to the information it received.  
Having looked at the results, there wasnt anything that I can see that wouldve led 
Fund Ourselves to have either declined these applications or to have prompted it to have 
carried out further checks. Both credit searches showed Miss J hadnt defaulted on any accounts within the last 12 
months and hadnt had any accounts enter delinquency within that time either. It also knew 
that Miss J didnt have any County Court Judgements. So, there wasnt anything to suggest 
that Miss J was having problems maintaining her existing credit commitments. 
Ive also looked at the repayment for loan one to see whether that ought to have prompted 
further checks. I can see that loan one was repaid much quicker than planned and without 
any obvious repayment problems. So, I dont think when loan two was granted the way loan 
one had been repaid wouldve given Fund Ourselves cause for concern. 
The lending chain also wasnt large enough to have made Fund Ourselves conclude that 
Miss J was using the loans in an unsustainable manner. 
This also means, that I dont yet think it had reached the point in the lending relationship 
where Fund Ourselves wouldve concluded it needed to have verified what Miss J was telling 
it. I appreciate that Miss Js representative has provided copies of her bank statements. But 
in this case, taking account of the two loans, what Miss J declared it wouldve been 
disproportionate for Fund Ourselves to have viewed them.  
Overall, Fund Ourselves carried out proportionate checks before each loan was approved - 
which showed Miss J could afford the repayments she was committed to making. Im also 
satisfied it was entitled to rely on the information Miss J declared about her income and 
expenditure. Finally, there wasnt anything else to suggest these loans would either be 
unaffordable or unsustainable for her. 
So, I dont think Fund Ourselves did anything wrong when it approved the loans for Miss J 
and it therefore follows that I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Miss Js compliant. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman