DRN-1426246
The complaint
This complaint is about Mrs and Mr As mortgage with Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI). 
Theyre unhappy that BOI wouldnt exercise its discretion by waiving the early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they sold their home and paid off the mortgage
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. Although Ive read and 
considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment 
on any specific point, its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont think I need 
to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. 
I can only find in Mrs and Mr As favour if one or other of two alternative situations applies: 
these are:
if BOI had no right under the contract to apply the ERC; or
if collecting the ERC amounted to unfair treatment.
The first option doesnt apply. The fixed rate agreement ran from April 2017 to April 2020. 
Mrs and Mr A redeemed the mortgage in September 2019, so still within the period for which 
the ERC applied. That means the ERC was payable in accordance with the underlying 
contract between them and BOI. 
As to the second, possibility, I appreciate Mrs and Mr A had personal reasons for selling 
their home when they did; I dont reproduce the details here to preserve their privacy. But 
that didnt place any obligation on BOI to waive the ERC, and it hasnt treated Mrs and Mr A 
unfairly by holding them to the terms of a mutually-agreed contract.
Mrs and Mr A say that by charging the ERC, BOI forced them to take out a loan that put 
them into financial difficulties. Ive thought hard about that, and I dont think BOI can be held 
responsible for the decisions Mrs and Mr A took, or the consequences of them. Firstly, 
Mrs and Mr A say they borrowed £12,000 when the ERC was less than £8,000. Secondly, 
the decision to redeem was Mrs and Mr As choice, and they made that choice knowing that 
it would mean theyd incur the ERC.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that that I dont uphold this complaint. My 
final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2020.
 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman