DRN-1158737
 
The complaint
Miss O has complained that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a store card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Allianz has taken responsibility for this complaint, so Ill be referring to Allianz in the rest of 
this decision.
What happened
Miss O took out the PPI in 1993 at the same time as applying for the store card by 
completing a leaflet.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss O disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Os complaint and Ill explain why.
Miss O says it was not made clear to her that the policy was optional. Miss O had picked up 
a leaflet to fill in to apply for the store card. So she wouldnt have received any input from 
any members of staff. Ive seen a copy of the application form and there is a separate 
section for PPI with a box that needed to be ticked to apply for the policy. Miss O has ticked 
the box. She has also printed her name, as the person to be covered by the policy, and then 
added her date of birth. I consider that Miss O would have known from the wording and 
layout of the form that she had a choice about taking out the policy. The sale happened a 
long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Miss Os recollection of events has faded. It 
seems to me that she decided to buy the policy, knowing that she didnt have to, even if she 
no longer remembers doing so.
Allianz didnt advise Miss O to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide enough information for her to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not it was right for her.
Miss O cant remember exactly what her sick pay would have been but she says she would 
have got full pay for at least six months. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any 
sick pay and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. And Miss O 
didnt have any other means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think Miss O could have 
benefitted from the policy and that it would have proved useful at what would have been a 
difficult time.Its possible that Allianz could have provided more information about the policy, particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Miss O wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think she had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information 
would have caused her to change her mind. So Miss O isnt any worse off as a result of 
anything Allianz may have done wrong, so theres nothing that Allianz needs to do to put 
things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Miss Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 February 2020.
Carole Clark
Ombudsman