DRN-1750949
 
The complaint
Mr F complains about the suitability of the advice he was given to transfer his existing 
personal pensions into a different personal pension wrapper with a new provider.
What happened
Mr F held a number of pensions with a provider from as early as 1993. These were a mixture 
of self-employed and employed plans. Mr F paid regular contributions into the employee 
plans. The money was invested in a managed fund. 
Mr F says that in 2015, he was contacted by Smith & Pinching Financial Services Limited 
(Smith & Pinching) to review his pensions. He was advised to transfer some of the plans into 
a new pension. The recommendation was to transfer into a pension wrapper using a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM) to invest in line with Mr Fs cautious to balanced attitude 
to risk (ATR). In addition, monthly contributions of £80 were to be continued. 
In 2018 Mr Fs health was failing and he needed to retire, so he contacted Smith & Pinching. 
Mr F says he couldnt meet to get advice from Smith & Pinching due to the costs involved, 
but he did find out the value of his pension which he said was considerably less than his 
personal pensions had been before he transferred them.
Following a meeting with another adviser Mr F felt that the original advice to transfer had 
been unsuitable so he complained to Smith & Pinching. 
Smith & Pinching didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had made Mr F aware of the charges 
involved in transferring and had also explained the relative performance of the existing funds 
against its model portfolio. It said Mr F was aware of the merits of its advice which was 
clearly documented and in accordance with his circumstances. So it thought its advice had 
been suitable.
Mr F wasnt happy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us using a 
representative.
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint should be upheld. He 
said that he understood the advice had been given to realign Mr Fs ATR with his pension 
fund, and that historic performance suggested the plan would outperform the previous plans. 
But he said that performance wasnt guaranteed, and he wasnt satisfied that the potential 
advantages of the transfer were worth the extra costs that Mr F would incur. He said Smith & 
Pinching should compare the value of the plan now with that of the existing plans had they 
not been transferred, and any loss should be paid as compensation. 
Smith & Pinching didnt agree and said in response:
The Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), as the new plan had been described by 
the investigator, was a standard personal pension and so wasnt subject to the 
additional costs associated with SIPPs. It said Mr F was invested in a simple 
collection of unit trusts and OEICS.
Although the overall charges had increased this was predominately due to an 
ongoing adviser charge of 0.75%. And Mr F had indicated he wanted to pay for 
ongoing advice and for the use of a DFM.   
So even if Mr F didnt take up Smith & Pinchings recommendation it would still have 
charged Mr F for the ongoing advice he wanted.
The DFM service allowed Mr F to have minimal involvement in managing the plan 
which suited his situation as an inexperienced investor. 
The model portfolio that was recommended, while not guaranteed, gave Mr F the 
opportunity to invest in a strategy that had produced higher returns for lower risk  
and whose returns were better than the funds Mr F invested in previously, through 
his personal pensions.
If he hadnt transferred Mr F would most likely have remained in a fund that didnt 
represent his ATR and, whilst it had lower overall charges, had worse performance. 
It thought the only alternative Mr F had within his existing pension funds was to 
switch to a deposit fund, which meant sitting in cash until retirement  which it didnt 
think was suitable advice.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his view. He made the following points:
The amount transferred wasnt usually considered significant enough to warrant a 
DFM. He thought that, while the DFM was used to align with Mr Fs attitude to risk, 
that could have been achieved using a more standard fund with lower costs. 
He thought the plan that was advised was a SIPP. 
There was no consideration given to whether Mr Fs existing plan could have met his 
retirement goals. He said he expected to see evidence that using the existing plan 
had at least been considered as an alternative. 
Smith & Pinching didnt agree and wanted to make the following points about redress before 
a decision was made. It said that it believed the benchmark that had been used was unfair 
and not something Mr F could have achieved. It proposed a split of funds that should be 
used to achieve the ATR that best applied to Mr F. And it didnt think it was fair that the 
benchmark didnt include charges, as it said its fees would have been paid regardless of 
whether Mr F took up that particular recommendation or wanted an alternative. 
The new plan was transferred to another provider on 13 March 2019 with a transfer value of 
£31,120.96. 
As no resolution could be found the complaint has been passed to me for a review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. I think 
the advice was unsuitable and so Ill explain my reasons.
Theres no evidence here that Mr F approached Smith & Pinching in 2015 to discuss his 
existing plans. Hed held his existing personal pensions for some years and theres nothing 
to show that hed reviewed the funds or the level of the regular premiums he paid during that 
time. I havent seen any evidence that Mr F was disappointed with the performance of his pensions or that he was actively seeking to transfer them or wanted them managed through 
a DFM.  
So, when he met with Smith & Pinching and it was suggested that he should review his 
pensions I think Mr F would have needed to be persuaded that he would be better off in 
retirement by transferring. I dont think, having not reviewed his pensions for a number of 
years, that Mr F would have considered the other factors to be as important as ensuring he 
was better off as a result of transferring. 
In its suitability report Smith& Pinching said, I have advised that the recommended pension 
plan is more expensive than your ceding plans, with it still (sic) agreed to transfer your funds 
for the following reasons- discretionary management, wider fund choice, potential for 
stronger investment returns.
So, based on Mr Fs previous pensions experience and lack of desire to switch funds or 
review its performance Ive carefully considered the reasons that Smith & Pinching gave for 
transferring. And I understand Smith & Pinchings underlying reasons. I think it wanted to 
transfer Mr Fs pensions to align his investment with his agreed ATR, which hadnt been 
evaluated for some length of time. Smith & Pinching has said that if Mr F had not transferred 
his only option within his existing plan was to switch into the deposit fund  and it would have 
charged him for doing so. 
But I havent seen evidence to show that Smith & Pinching had asked for and was provided 
with that information by the previous provider. So, I asked the provider what funds would 
have been available to Mr F to switch to within the existing pension at that time. It has 
confirmed that there were 12 funds available and I can see that a number of them had risk 
profiles which would have satisfied Mr Fs ATR, particularly if the investment had been split 
between them. So, I cant safely say that Mr F couldnt have satisfied any discrepancy 
between the ATR of the managed fund he held previously and the other funds that were 
available for him to switch between. 
And looking at the DFM, theres no evidence to show that Mr F was keen to use a third party 
to invest his money  although that doesnt necessarily mean that it couldnt have been 
appropriate in the circumstances. But Mr Fs fund size was relatively small, and Im not 
persuaded it was significant enough to benefit from the use of a DFM with the extra layer of 
charges that were applied. 
The illustration for the new pension showed its charges to be as follows:
Annual fund charge 0.76%.
Annual adviser charge 0.75%.
Annual platform charge of 0.35%.
This gave a total cost of 1.86%. Mr Fs previous pensions incurred a charge of 0.9%. So, the 
new plan was around twice as expensive. And on a fund the size of Mr Fs, the impact of the 
higher charges would likely be significant  especially over an investment horizon of less 
than 10 years  according to the illustration. 
Ive also gone to consider the pension report that was provided to Mr F in more detail. I think 
its important that the information Mr F was provided with was accurate and reflected the 
situation he might find himself in after transferring. 
But looking at the charges section within the report, I can only see a mention of the on-going 
adviser charge and its not clear to me that the other costs are included in the illustration. 
Theres no evidence to show that they were. So, its difficult to conclude that Mr F was 
provided with an accurate comparison  as over half the costs involved with the new plan dont appear to be included in a comparison. Im therefore not persuaded that Mr F was 
provided with accurate enough information for him to be able to make a fully informed 
decision on whether to transfer or not.
In my view Mr F, considering the size of his pension funds and likely retirement age, would 
have been most concerned with whether a transfer would have provided him with greater 
income from a larger pension fund. Based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded that Mr F 
was given that information or that it was clear to him that he would be better off by 
transferring. The confusion of what charges were included in the switching report meant that 
it would have been difficult for Mr F to have concluded what was in his best interest.
So, as I dont think that Mr F was able to make a fully informed decision, I cant say the 
advice to transfer was suitable and I think Smith & Pinching should carry out a calculation, 
as set out below, to see if Mr F has suffered a financial loss as a result of its 
recommendation. 
Smith & Pinching has said that the new plan isnt a SIPP and doesnt have the opportunity to 
invest in more complex investments and incur charges that SIPPs generally do. Looking at 
the description of the plan it seems that the offering is a pension wrap which offers the 
opportunity for number of investment strategies. One of which is a SIPP  although its not 
entirely clear thats what Mr F is invested in. 
 
I note that the application form that Mr F signed has a declaration for a SIPP and states I 
apply to subscribe for the (provider) SIPP in accordance with the (provider) SIPP key 
features and terms and conditions. And the form is signed by Mr F under the section 
headed signature of SIPP applicant. In addition, the providers brochure which covers all its 
investments, notes that there are five different products of which four arent pension 
products and the only remaining investment type is a SIPP. So, I can fully understand why 
Mr F and the investigator would have assumed the plan to be a SIPP.
But, in any case, a SIPP is simply a type of personal pension and the definition of the plan 
that Mr F is invested in isnt material to his complaint. His complaint is simply a question of 
whether the advice to transfer to a new plan  whatever it may be  was suitable for Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time.
putting things right
Ill set out my recommended method to calculate how Mr F should be compensated for any 
financial loss below. But Smith & Pinching has raised objections to the method weve already 
suggested. It has recommended its own composite benchmark using a combination of the 
funds that might have been available to Mr F within his existing plans. As Ive demonstrated 
above there were more appropriate funds available for Mr F to switch into so that his ATR 
could be realigned within his existing pension. But its not possible to be entirely sure what he 
would have done in the circumstances, so I think its more appropriate to use a benchmark 
which reflects Mr Fs ATR as way of working out what might have happened if hed been 
given suitable advice.
And Smith & Pinching also says that benchmark doesnt allow it to include the charges it 
would taken from Mr F regardless of whether he took its recommendation or not. It says it 
would have given Mr F some advice, which would have incurred charges. 
But the fact remains that I dont think Smith & Pinching did give Mr F suitable advice, so it 
wouldnt be fair for me to say that it can keep the fees on that basis.
Fair compensationMy aim is that Mr F should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr F would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr F's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Smith & Pinching do?
To compensate Mr F fairly, Smith & Pinching must:
Compare the performance of Mr F's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Smith & Pinching should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Smith & Pinching should pay into Mr F's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Smith & Pinching is unable to pay the total amount into Mr F's pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced 
to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr F's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr F is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr F would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Smith & Pinching deducts income tax 
from the interest it should tell Mr F how much has been taken off. Smith & Pinching should 
give Mr F a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
New 
pension transferredfor half the 
investment: date of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple per 
year on any wrap FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsloss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Smith & 
Pinching should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Any additional sums paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Smith & Pinching totals all those payments and deducts 
that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr F wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr F's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr F into that position. It does not mean that Mr F 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr F could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Smith & Pinching Financial Services Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Smith & Pinching Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr F 
in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 August 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman