DRN-2676886
The complaint
Mr H complains that the actions of Mortgage Compare Limited (MCL) during an application 
for a mortgage led to the lender adding markers to a national fraud database.
What happened
In 2017, Mr H applied for a mortgage with a lender, which Ill call O. The application was 
declined. MCL acted as the broker.
When MCL submitted the application to O, it had already submitted an application to a 
different lender, which was unsuccessful. Following the application to O, MCL submitted a 
further application to a third lender, which ultimately didnt proceed as Mr H didnt provide 
information that lender requested.
Sometime later, Mr H discovered that O had added markers to one of the national fraud 
databases against his name, due to the applications. He complained to O. To resolve his 
complaint, it agreed to remove the marker and paid him around £7,500 in compensation, 
including compensation for what Mr H had identified as his financial losses because of the 
marker as well as an award for the trouble and upset caused to him.
O informed Mr H it had added markers as the application it had received from MCL included 
bank statements for another individual.
Mr H complained to MCL that it had sent incorrect information to O, and this had led to it 
adding markers to the national fraud database. He said this had a significant impact on him, 
as it prevented him gaining employment in his industry, and from obtaining a mortgage 
elsewhere. He said this had, in turn, had considerable emotional impact on him. He felt it 
was unfair hed been charged MCLs full fee.
MCL didnt uphold the complaint, saying it didnt think it had made any such error. It thought 
O had misled Mr H about what had happened with the application to avoid accepting full 
responsibility itself.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and concluded MCL should refund half its fee to 
Mr H. Neither party agreed with the investigators findings.
I issued a provisional decision. Firstly, I explained why I thought I could consider this 
complaint even though Mr H had previously complained about the fee for different reasons. 
And then I went on to set out my view of the complaint.
I said:
Time limits
Firstly, Ive thought about the time limits set out by the financial services regulator. 
Having done so, Ive reached a different decision about what were able to consider. 
The question of jurisdiction is at large until a complaint is finally resolved, and as the 
ombudsman making the final determination I have to consider this question myself.
Mr H previously complained to MCL about its fees, as the applications it had 
submitted werent successful. MCL issued its final response letter, which didnt 
uphold Mr Hs complaint, and required him to pay the balance of the fees. Mr H did 
that, and didnt refer that complaint to our service. The final response gave him six 
months to do so.
However, I dont think that means this complaint is out of time. Although Mr H didnt 
refer the previous complaint in time, he was aware that MCL had made unsuccessful 
applications on his behalf. He complained that he shouldnt have to pay a fee for 
unsuccessful applications.
The nature of an application is that it isnt always successful, and Mr H accepted 
MCLs response to that complaint.
In my view, this is a different complaint. Mr H wasnt aware that, due to the 
application, O had added markers to a national fraud prevention database  or the 
ramifications of that.
This complaint is about that, and about what would be appropriate redress to require 
MCL to pay if O is right that it was at fault in providing the wrong bank statements. 
Thats a different complaint to one about being charged for an application which was 
made properly but ended up not being successful. And this complaint was not 
addressed in the earlier final response, and so is not out of time.
Theres no doubt that our service is able to consider whether or not MCLs actions 
caused O to add markers, and the impact of that on Mr H. I think that means that I 
am also able to make a decision about whether or not its fair it retains its fees.
Whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
MCL is adamant that it made no mistake with Mr Hs application, and that it didnt 
submit incorrect information to O. It says it can find no evidence to support Mr Hs 
assertion.
Our investigator asked both MCL and O about what happened, and for any evidence 
either could provide about the documentation submitted in support of it. O maintained 
its position that the marker was added due to it receiving another individuals bank 
statements, but wasnt able to provide any evidence of this. It said that due to the 
passage of time it hadnt retained it.
MCL explained how it processed and submitted applications, including its processes 
for ensuring the protection of client information. It said it could find nothing to indicate 
it had submitted incorrect information and said it thought the lender had lied to Mr H.
In cases such as this, where theres a dispute about what happened and theres a 
lack of conclusive evidence to support what either party has said, I must determine 
what I think most probably happened, on the balance of probabilities.
Neither party has now been able to provide positive evidence of what happened. O 
says it doesnt have the evidence it reviewed when Mr H complained any more; MCL 
says theres nothing on its file to suggest it made a mistake and its procedures shouldnt allow it to happen, but it hasnt been able to evidence exactly what it 
submitted at the time.
I think its unlikely that O would lie to Mr H about its reasons for applying fraud 
markers. On balance, I think its likely it received incorrect information in support of 
Mr Hs application, and this is what led it to add markers. I dont think it would tell Mr 
H that this is what happened, and pay him sizable compensation, unless thats what 
its investigation had showed. I appreciate what MCL has explained about its 
processes, but both people and software make mistakes, without intention or malice. 
I think its most likely thats what happened here.
But it doesnt follow that the consequences MCLs mistake were reasonable or 
foreseeable, or that Os reaction to it was appropriate. Indeed, O accepts that it didnt 
respond appropriately, and thats why it has paid Mr H compensation. Given that, Im 
satisfied that the main cause of the markers was not MCLs mistake, but Os reaction 
to it.
This decision is not about the actions of O. I am only able to consider the actions of 
MCL.O has already provided considerable compensation to Mr H for its decision to 
add fraud markers. I think if there were further losses to him, as Mr H has said there 
were, it would have been for him to bring them to Os attention when he complained 
to them. And as Ive said above, Os settlement to Mr H also included a significant 
payment for the trouble and upset caused to him by its decision to add fraud 
markers.
So I dont think its reasonable to ask MCL to cover any further financial losses Mr H 
believes he incurred now, nor the trouble and upset to him caused by Os decision to 
add markers.
Ive thought about whether its reasonable to ask MCL to refund its fees to Mr H, in 
light of the likely error that occurred. But, as Ive explained above, MCL made three 
applications on Mr Hs behalf, to three different lenders. The third  after O had 
rejected the second application  wasnt proceeded with when Mr H didnt provide 
information requested.
I think MCL made reasonable attempts to source a mortgage for Mr H, in line with its 
terms of service, and accordingly its reasonable that MCL retains its fee. While it 
made a mistake on one of the applications  for which Mr H has been separately 
compensated  it made two others. I think it provided the service Mr H agreed to pay 
for.
Neither party had any further arguments to make in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in the absence of further evidence or argument, I see no reason to 
change my provisional view of the case.
My final decision
For the reasons I gave in my provisional decision, reproduced above, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman