DRN-4301652
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Legal and General Assurance Society Limited, referred to as 
Legal and General or the business. 
In short, they say the business cancelled their life cover policy (the policy) by mistake, and 
despite upholding the complaint, hasnt provided a fair and reasonable resolution to the 
problem.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S say they called up the business to update their records following a re- 
mortgage. They were initially told that the business doesnt have a record of the policy. In 
due course, it came to light that the policy was cancelled in error. 
The business upheld the complaint. It explained that in 2018, a customer with a similar policy 
number called to cancel their policy. However, when locating this policy, the agent for the 
business incorrectly found and cancelled Mr and Mrs Ss policy. Thats why when they called 
the business in May 2021, it couldnt find the policy.
It agreed to reinstate the policy (without a new declaration of health (DOH)) contingent upon 
Mr and Mrs S paying the missed premiums (in the sum of around £4,697 at the time) to bring 
the policy up to date  it was happy to arrange a payment plan over 12-24 months in order to 
make them pay the missed premiums. It made clear that it doesnt usually do this if 
premiums havent been paid for over three months. Alternatively, Mr and Mrs S could apply 
for a new policy.
The business also made clear that in the event of a valid claim, it wouldve paid out the sum 
assured despite there not being a policy in place at the time, due to its error. In the 
circumstances, it also offered Mr and Mrs S £350 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Unhappy with the businesss response, Mr and Mrs S referred the complaint to our service. 
They said they were unhappy that they still didnt have life cover and werent in a position to 
pay the missed premiums. Given Mr Ss health, they just wanted their old policy to be 
reinstated.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and initially thought the offer by the 
business was broadly fair and reasonable. In summary, she said: 
Its fair that the business is willing to reinstate the policy, without a DOH, providing 
the missed premiums are paid, via a payment plan. 
If Mr and Mrs S dont wish to pay missed premiums, they can apply for a new policy 
which meets their needs. It might be worth discussing the idea with the business. 
Given our approach to redress, its not unfair to ask Mr and Mrs S to pay the 
premiums that they wouldve paid anyway, had the policy not been cancelled in error. 
The £350 compensation offered by the business is broadly fair and reasonable. In 
the circumstances it reflects the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Theres been much correspondence between Mr and Mrs S, the business, and the 
investigator regarding the redress offered by the business. 
They remain unhappy with the options proposed, and still very concerned that they remain 
without cover whilst this matter is being dealt with.
They believe the repayment of the missed premiums should be over the lifetime of the policy 
 not 12-24 months  and certainly not through some debt recovery scheme. The increased 
premiums (current premium with missed premiums) are simply unaffordable. Obtaining a 
new policy with the business also isnt a viable option  despite doing everything they could, 
the business still refused to cover Mr S. 
They maintain that the business made the error but offered an unworkable solution, along 
with compensation that doesnt cover the distress and inconvenience caused.
The investigator, having considered the additional points and liaised with the parties, in brief 
made the following points: 
Its not our role to negotiate premiums, thats something that Mr and Mrs S will have 
to do themselves, going forward. But the payments must be fair and affordable. 
The repayment of missed premiums  over 12-24 months  is unaffordable, 
especially with the cost-of-living crises. The business should really give them longer 
 based on affordability  as there are four years of premiums to be paid. 
Mr and Mrs S now no longer wish to reinstate the policy. 
Whilst theyd would like £2,500 compensation, as full and final settlement of this 
complaint, the investigator doesnt think its fair. 
£500 compensation for distress and inconvenience is suitable.
The business disagreed with the investigators latest view and maintains that its offer of 
redress is broadly fair and reasonable. It doesnt agree with paying £500 compensation. 
As no agreement had been reached, the matter had been passed to me for review.
On 25 July 2023, I issued my provisional decision, a copy of which is stated below and forms 
part of my final decision. In the decision, I said: 
provisionally Im going to uphold this complaint. Theres no dispute that the business 
cancelled Mr and Mrs Ss policy in error. I understand that checks that shouldve been in 
place to prevent the error happening in the first place werent followed. Because the 
business upheld the complaint, the key issue for me is to consider is redress, and whether 
(or not) its fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that the redress offered by 
the business is reasonable. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the business 
should do the following: 
1. Give Mr and Mrs S the opportunity to reinstate the policy, without DOH, which I 
understand the business has already offered to do. 
a. In the circumstances, and on balance, I think the business should also offer a 25% 
discount on the (missed) premiums owed. 
b. Mr and Mrs S should be given at least 36 months, to pay the missed premiums. 
2. The business should also pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.Im aware that it was the business that cancelled the policy and did so by mistake. So, it was 
through no fault of their own that Mr and Mrs S were left (and still are left) without life cover. 
The onus is therefore on the business to put things right, and to put Mr and Mrs S in the 
position (or as close to the position) they would have been in, but for the error. 
In this instance, it means reinstating the policy, or at least giving Mr and Mrs S the 
opportunity to reinstate the policy. But if they dont want to reinstate the policy thats a matter 
for them  they may wish to obtain independent financial advice before deciding what to do. 
I appreciate the business maintains that in the event of a valid claim (after the policy was 
cancelled) it still wouldve honoured the claim and paid the sum assured.
In the circumstances, and on balance, I dont think Mr and Mrs S should be liable to pay the 
entirety of the missed premiums  I dont think its fair. Thats why Ive suggested a 25% 
discount should they wish to reinstate the policy, which I think is arguably more manageable. 
I do so on the basis that it was the businesss fault at the outset, but also take into account 
that Mr and Mrs S ought reasonably to have done more to realise the premiums werent 
being paid. 
Despite what they say, Mr and Mrs S will be aware that they couldnt have got this cover for 
free and wouldve had to pay in any event had the mistake not occurred. Subject to the 
above comments I have made, in the circumstances I dont think the business is wrong to 
require them to pay for the missed premiums before reinstating the policy. I also cant blame 
it for not choosing to waive the premiums. 
In the circumstances Mr and Mrs S should have been aware shortly after the policy was 
cancelled that the payments werent going out. Judging by what they now need to pay to 
reinstate the policy, its evidently not an insignificant amount. Whilst its possible they didnt 
notice the premiums not going out, I think they ought reasonably to have done so.
Based on the affordability of the policy, I understand that Mr and Mrs S have said theyre not 
interested in reinstating the policy  in other words, its too expensive paying the current and 
missed premiums going forward. Given my decision, its possible that they may change their 
minds, as they still have time to pay the lower amount  but its not clear. Its a matter for 
them whether or not they want the plan back. 
Im mindful that getting a new policy in this instance isnt a viable option, so its not 
something Im going to consider any further. 
In any case, I think the business should pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation for the 
substantial distress and inconvenience caused
I gave the parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional decision and provide any 
further submissions they wished me to consider before I considered my final decision. 
The business responded and questioned my provisional decision. In short it said that in 2021 
it offered to reinstate the policy and offered compensation that put Mr and Mrs S in the 
position they wouldve been in but for the error. It thinks that Mr and Mrs S might now benefit 
from its error with a discount. It offered debt recovery to take over the outstanding amount, 
so that a payment plan could be set up with no set timescale.    
Mr and Mrs S also responded but didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary, they 
said:The business was never going to payout in the event of a claim. It couldnt even find 
their policy and denied that it existed. 
They never received a cancellation letter. 
Theyve managed to find a separate provider but feel that they are in a worser 
position financially. 
It wasnt made clear in my provisional decision that they were willing to take up the 
policy. After several months of undertaking medical examinations, completing 
questionnaires, and speaking with advisers the business refused. It wasnt a viable 
option, even though the business said it would offer this as a solution. 
Given that they now have to pay higher premiums, the compensation should reflect 
this.    
They referred the complaint to or service in October 2021, given the time taken to 
resolve this complaint, the recommended redress is now not workable. 
Given the rates of inflation the compensation recommended by me, isnt really 
additional compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, notwithstanding the latest submissions from the parties, Im not persuaded 
to change my mind. My decision to uphold this complaint remains the same, principally for 
the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
In other words, on balance Im still satisfied that the key points remain the same, and have 
been considered by me, in my provisional decision. On the face of the evidence, and on 
balance, I still think that this complaint should be upheld, and compensation  as set out in 
my provisional decision  paid. And, despite what the business says, Im not persuaded that 
its offer of redress is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I still think this complaint should be upheld. I do so, in brief, for the following reasons:
Whilst I appreciate what the business says for not upholding this complaint, I dont 
think the arguments are as simple as it suggests. I simply cant dismiss the fact that it 
was the businesss mistake that initially led to this situation. 
Notwithstanding the fact that it has offered to reinstate the policy (without a DOH) as 
long as the premiums are paid (within specified period), I dont think this fully 
considers the position that Mr and Mrs S are in. 
Thats why I think it should offer a 25% discount, should they wish to reinstate the 
policy, as well as providing longer to pay because the balance will be much higher. 
Im aware the business has made clear that the latter is possible through the debt 
recovery mechanism, although Mr and Mrs S arent happy with this process. 
In my opinion, the businesss offer at the outset wasnt fair. It wasnt practical and 
didnt objectively consider affordability issues that Mr and Mrs S were likely to face in 
reinstating the policy. Im aware thats why they tried to take out a new policy as 
suggested by the business, but despite their best efforts the business refused to 
cover Mr S. 
I also cant ignore the cost-of-living crisis.  
I appreciate the business can choose to waive the missed premiums, but I cant say 
that it has done anything wrong by not doing so. Im aware that but for the error, Mr 
and Mrs S would have to pay the fees due.   
Irrespective of whether or not they choose to reinstate the policy, the business should 
pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  which I think better reflects the level of distress and inconvenience caused. 
Im mindful that getting a new policy with the business wasnt/isnt an option, given Mr 
Ss health concerns but they have now found a new policy with a different provider.    
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Ss comments, but Ive no evidence to go behind or question 
what the business said about its intention to honour a valid claim. In any case, the 
point is academic.
Im sorry for the time taken to resolve this complaint. Our service has been and is 
doing its best working through the backlog of cases. 
The above notwithstanding, I appreciate Mr and Mrs S will be thoroughly disappointed that 
despite their latest submissions Ive still not been persuaded to change my mind. In other 
words, Ive upheld the complaint but still havent given them what they want, and that my 
decision isnt what they want to hear. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask 
the business to do anything other than what I set out below and in my provisional decision. 
The above notwithstanding, on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im still 
unable to give Mr and Mrs S what they want.
Putting things right
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should do the following: 
1. Give Mr and Mrs S the opportunity to reinstate their policy, without DOH. 
a. It should also discount the outstanding premiums owed by Mr and Mrs S by 25%. 
b. Mr and Mrs S should be given at least 36 months, if not longer, to pay the missed 
premiums.
2. The business should pay Mr and Mrs S £500 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. Legal 
and General Assurance Society Limited should pay redress as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman