DRN-4118808
The complaint
Mr A complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt send him a 2022 AGM 
voting pack or respond when he asked them for help with this issue.
What happened
Mr A holds a few different accounts with Nationwide and has banked with them for several 
years. Last year he made a complaint as he was unhappy he didnt receive a voting pack. 
He said he lost the chance to vote and needed to make several trips to his local library so he 
could contact Nationwide about this problem. He was also caused further upset as 
Nationwide didnt respond to him until he specifically said he wanted to make a formal 
complaint. 
In their final response, Nationwide explained that a paperless voting pack had been sent to       
Mr As email address in June 2022. They also said they couldnt find any record of Mr A 
requesting help with this issue, but they'd consider this complaint point again if he provided 
additional information. Mr A then brought the complaint to our service and said it wasnt fair 
Nationwide had sent the voting pack to a dead email account. He felt it should have been 
sent to him in the post like previous years.
An investigator then considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied 
Nationwides contact notes showed a voting pack had been successfully sent to Mr As email 
address along with two reminder emails. She also noticed that Mr A received paperless bank 
statements and felt it was therefore likely, hed also requested a paperless voting pack. She 
hadnt seen any evidence which suggested Nationwide refused to help Mr A with this issue 
or failed to respond to his correspondence. Lastly, she thought Mr A could have reasonably 
called Nationwide to ask for assistance instead of visiting his local library and incurring travel 
costs.
Mr A didnt accept our investigators opinion. He said the voting pack should have been sent 
to him in the post, and he visited a library instead of making phone calls due to the urgent 
nature of the problem. He also asked for his complaint to be escalated and said he should 
receive £50 compensation. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it for the following reasons: 
Based on the contact notes Ive reviewed, Im satisfied Mr A was sent a voting pack 
by email on 9 June 2022. I appreciate Mr A has said he didnt receive this email as it 
was sent to a dead account. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, the email 
appears to have been successfully delivered and didnt bounce back. I would also 
have reasonably expected Mr A to have let Nationwide know if his contact details had 
changed. 
Nationwide have shown Mr A didnt actively opt-in to receiving paperless voting 
packs. Instead, he was sent an email on 19 January 2022, which said the voting 
process had changed and would now be paperless. The email also explained that if 
Mr A didnt wish for this change to happen, he would need to let Nationwide know by 
the following month. As Mr A didnt respond to this email, it was therefore assumed 
that hed provided his consent. Im aware our investigator (incorrectly) thought it was 
likely Mr A had actively opted-in to receiving email voting packs, so I hope this 
clarification now helps Mr A understand what happened. 
I appreciate its likely Mr A didnt read Nationwides January email and he may have 
acted differently if hed done so. However, as the correspondence was sent to the 
correct email address, Im satisfied Nationwide did enough to make Mr A aware of 
the voting process change and his options. Im also mindful of the fact, Mr A receives 
paperless bank statements from Nationwide, so I would reasonably have expected 
him to have checked his email account relatively frequently.
Mr A has said he made several trips to his local library to correspond with Nationwide 
about this issue. However, hes not provided any evidence to support this, and 
Nationwides contact notes dont suggest they received any correspondence from 
him. So, while I acknowledge Mr As strength of feeling, I dont see any grounds for 
directing Nationwide to pay him the £50 compensation hes requested. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman