DRN-3156974
The complaint
Mr N says Morses Club PLC (Morses) lent to him irresponsibly. He says that he couldnt 
afford the loan repayments and he had a history of poor credit. He thinks that Morses 
shouldve seen this and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about five home collected loans Morses provided to Mr N between 
September 2017 and December 2018.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedterm 
(weeks)date ended
1 28/09/2017 £200 33 25/05/2018
2 12/12/2017 £150 33 10/08/2018
3 27/04/2018 £400 33 18/12/2018
4 18/12/2018 £600 52 outstanding
5 18/12/2018 £200 33 18/02/2021
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He thought that Mr N was due to repay too 
high an amount towards loans 4 and 5, given his circumstances. 
Morses disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It didnt think that the repayments for these 
loans were too much for Mr N. They were only a fraction of his disposable, and total, income. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr N 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ns complaint in part, and Ive explained why below.
Mr N accepted our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3. Because of this I dont think there 
is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision about 
these loans. But, they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr N had with Morses. So, 
they are something I will take into account when considering the other loans he took.
Given Mr Ns circumstances, I think its reasonable to say that any further expenditure could 
potentially cause him financial difficulty. Ill explain why I think this is in relation to loans 4 
and 5.  
The point of sale information for loan 4 shows that Mr Ns income was around £190 a week 
from benefits. This had fallen very sharply from loan two when it was recorded as being over 
£300. So, as a starting point, Mr Ns income was modest.
Mr Ns expenditure was shown as zero for this month which I dont think is likely a true 
picture. This is because Mr Ns expenditure was recorded as being around £150 for loan 3 
which was started only a few months earlier. It seems unlikely that Mr N did not now need to 
spend any money on groceries or rent, for example, as Morses now recorded. I think its 
likely he already had very little left over, if any, before he started the loans. 
And despite Mr Ns income falling by a significant amount loans 4 and 5 were both started 
together. And they were for £800 in total which is far higher amount than Mr N had ever 
borrowed before. 
Taking all what Ive said into account I think the weekly repayments for loans 4 and 5 
together meant that Mr N was probably paying too much and Morses shouldnt have 
approved these loans.Morses said that the repayment was low, and it was only a small proportion of Mr Ns 
disposable income. I dont agree with this as its around 16% of his income. And, this isnt 
the only important factor here as Ive outlined above. I think when all of Mr Ns 
circumstances are considered approving loan 4 and 5 isnt responsible.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Mr N from loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr N may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between him and this particular lender which he may not have had with others. If this wasnt 
a viable option, he may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming 
that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how he would (or ought 
to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is impossible to 
now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont think I can 
fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would have been 
able to lend to Mr N in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr N would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Mr N loans 4 and 5.
If Morses has sold the outstanding debts Morses should buy these back if it is able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Morses is not able to buy the debts back then Morses 
should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr N towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything 
it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr N 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr N originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Morses should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr N as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr N having made 
overpayments then Morses should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Morses should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr N. However, if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Morses should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr N. Morses shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Morses has already written-off.
E) Morses should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ns credit file in relation 
to loans 4 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Mr N a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Morses Club PLC should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman