DRN-3963913
The complaint
Mr R has complained about the way Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited (VMMF) dealt with 
him regarding a fixed sum loan agreement hed taken out to buy a phone. 
What happened
Mr R bought a phone for £432 using a two-year fixed sum loan agreement with VMMF in 
2017. Payments were £18 a month for the handset, and he had a separate airtime 
agreement. There were some issues with the payments for the fixed sum loan, so VMMF 
ended the agreement, asked Mr R to repay the full amount and referred the debt to a 
collection company. 
Mr R raised a complaint off the back of the way VMMF dealt with things. And this was 
referred to the Financial Ombudsman. An ombudsman issued a final decision in 2019 
saying, in summary, that VMMF had not misled Mr R about there being two direct debits. 
They said VMMF did what theyd expect with regards to arrears contact, it acted fairly in 
terminating the agreement and asking for the full balance to be repaid. The ombudsman did, 
however, think VMMF shouldnt have told Mr R to contact the third-party debt company 
before the debt had been formally passed over. The ombudsman didnt find they had enough 
evidence VMMF had been rude or that it had failed to deal with a complaint. But the 
ombudsman did think it was unfair VMMF didnt do enough to contact Mr R about the debt 
when the third-party debt company returned it. The ombudsmans final decision said VMMF 
should work with Mr R to arrange an affordable repayment plan. And that it should reduce 
the debt by £75 in recognition of the way things were handled. 
Mr R accepted the decision but contacted the Financial Ombudsman again in July 2019 
because he couldnt agree a payment plan with VMMF. It hadnt carried out what the 
ombudsman had directed. He also complained to VMMF about this along with its response 
to a data subject access request (DSAR). 
It looks like VMMF made an offer in relation to airtime and texts that was worth around £80, 
but as he wasnt getting anywhere, Mr R put in a complaint through another Alternative 
Dispute Resolution (ADR) scheme that Ill call C in January 2020. It looks like hed also 
contacted the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) as well. Mr R was unhappy VMMF 
hadnt carried out what the ombudsman had directed. And he said it was affecting his health. 
He requested VMMF contact him to discuss the ombudsmans decision, to award further 
compensation and issue an apology. Mr R requested £500 compensation.
VMMF accepted Mr Rs request to pay £500 compensation and it also apologised to him in 
February 2020. Mr R accepted this to resolve things. However, a few months later Mr R says 
he started to receive arrears letters again, so he contacted VMMF to complain. He was 
unhappy VMMF wasnt responding to him. From what I can see, Mr R wanted a senior staff 
member to look into his concerns. He wanted compensation and a response. 
From what I can see on VMMFs notes, it couldnt initially locate the final decision from the 
ombudsman. Mr R was again unhappy VMMF wasnt contacting him when it should have 
done, and that it wasnt responding to his DSAR properly. Mr R says he was told the debt 
was with a debt collector, but when he contacted the company, it had no information. VMMF 
looked into part of Mr Rs complaint. It sent him a final response on 8 October 2020 referring 
to a disconnection request, but saying it had no record of it. And it also said in relation to the 
DSAR Mr R had made it couldnt provide everything hed requested. From what I can see, it 
contacted Mr R the next day to let him know it would be in touch about what it could provide 
in response the DSAR. 
There were a couple more conversations in October 2020. VMMFs notes again mention 
Mr R raised the settlement having not been honoured, although I think VMMFs notes 
incorrectly referred to the compensation from C rather than the settlement from the 
ombudsmans final decision. The notes also indicate Mr R was unhappy he was asked to 
contact another department to discuss his fixed sum loan agreement because he wanted 
everything dealing with under one reference. Mr R remained unhappy he wasnt receiving a 
response. But the notes indicate VMMF gave Mr R the number for its collections department. 
VMMFs notes show Mr R phoned to clear the outstanding balance on his airtime bill in 
December 2020. But the notes show things went quieter for around the next year. Mr R says 
he received another arrears letter in December 2021. VMMF received another complaint 
referral from C in April 2022. Mr R reiterated points hed been previously unhappy about and 
requested £850 compensation. Mr R also referred his complaint back to the Financial 
Ombudsman. C issued an adjudication in June 2022 saying it had looked at what happened 
since the last complaint was referred to it. C said it couldnt help Mr R to enforce the 
ombudsmans final decision. It said it couldnt see VMMF had failed in its duty of care to 
Mr R in relation to the DSAR. But it said VMMF should have responded to Mr Rs complaint 
sooner. And that the customer service had let him down. C directed VMMF to pay Mr R £50 
and respond to his complaint. But Mr R rejected this. 
So to summarise, Mr R has complained:
VMMF failed to respond to his complaints and queries over a long time. 
VMMF didnt follow the ombudsmans final decision. 
VMMF didnt send deadlock letters Mr R wanted so he could pursue his complaint. 
VMMF didnt provide him with appropriate data he was entitled to. 
He was worried a debt collector would contact him. 
VMMF wouldnt agree payment plan with him.
It has caused him distress and inconvenience. 
Mr R requested £2,000 compensation and for VMMF to stop sending arrears letters. He also 
asked the Financial Ombudsman to consider imposing sanctions on VMMF. 
VMMF responded to our service and, in summary, said:
Unfortunately, it was unable to see whether Mr R accepted or rejected the 
ombudsmans final decision due to the way the emails were sent.
It was initially unable to reduce the loan balance and so it wouldve usually arranged 
a separate refund to go direct to Mr R. But it hadnt been able to establish it had done 
that. It eventually managed to reduce the loan agreement by £75. 
Mr R was awarded £500 off the back of his initial complaint referred to C, but that 
VMMF was yet to receive a payment towards the loan agreement. 
There was another offer of £50 in relation to the second complaint referred to C.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and said, in summary:
He was not going to consider Mr Rs complaint that had already been considered 
under the previous final decision. He wasnt going to consider what was looked at by C.
The complaint about the DSAR referred to in VMMFs final response letter in October 
2020 could not be considered as Mr R brought this complaint outside of the six 
months he had to refer it to our service. This time limit was set out in the final 
response letter and so this part of the complaint was outside of our jurisdiction. 
He thought VMMF had a number of opportunities to help resolve the dispute about 
the fixed sum loan agreement, but it hadnt done so. 
He didnt think VMMF handled things fairly since 2020 and it had adversely impacted 
Mr R. 
He didnt think the £75 reduction of the fixed sum loan had done enough to resolve 
things so he thought VMMF should pay Mr R £350. And that it should do this within a 
month. 
Mr R responded to say, in summary:
The investigator should set out VMMF has acted deceptively. He questioned why he 
wasnt allowed to return the handset and to have the debt cleared. 
He was unhappy he wouldnt get a judgment straight away. 
He didnt trust VMMF to resolve things. 
The compensation wasnt sufficient and didnt reflect the impact. He requested 
£2,200.
VMMF accepted the investigators assessment. I issued a provisional decision that said:
 
I want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure Mr R 
and VMMF that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
I understand Mr R wants the Financial Ombudsman to sanction VMMF, but thats not 
something Im able to do. Its my role to look into whats happened and decide quickly and 
with minimum formality whether VMMF needs to do something for Mr R to put things right. 
I want to say Im sorry to hear the matter has caused Mr R distress and inconvenience. And I 
thank him for taking the time and effort to bring his complaint. 
Im first going to set out what Im intending to consider. Our investigator has also done this in 
his assessment, but Im issuing a provisional decision in case the parties want the chance to 
comment further before I look to issue a final decision. 
Im not intending to consider what has been looked at under the previous final 
decision. 
Our service has the power to consider how VMMF has dealt with the regulated credit 
agreement, but not the airtime. So I will focus on that. 
Mr R hasnt disagreed that the complaint relating to the DSAR and disconnection 
referred to in the October 2020 final response was brought out of time, so I will not 
consider those points further. 
I will, however, look at whats happened holistically for all other matters that took 
place since the previous final decision was issued in May 2019.
I dont think its in dispute that VMMF could have handled things better. It should have 
actioned what was needed after the original final decision within a few weeks. So the fact Mr R was still complaining about it months and years later must have been very frustrating 
for him.
VMMF agreed to offer Mr R £500 in February 2020. C said VMMF should pay Mr R £50 in 
July 2022, but Mr R rejected this. Our investigator recommended VMMF pay Mr R £350 in 
relation to what he could consider, and it has agreed. VMMF has also now carried out the 
monetary direction made in the previous final decision from the ombudsman. But its not 
been able to come to a payment arrangement with Mr R as he originally wanted it to do. 
Mr R doesnt think £350 is sufficient. But, in the round, given hes already received £500 
from VMMF, I think a further £350 is broadly a fair way to put things right. Im not intending to 
direct VMMF to do more. Ill explain why.
As I said above, Ive considered everything on file and set out a summary of whats 
happened. Im not going to refer to every form of contact over the last few years. 
I agree with C in that VMMF missed various opportunities to fully consider Mr Rs complaints 
and issue a response that covered off everything he was unhappy about. Mr R has raised 
complaints through various channels, and it must have been really frustrating for him to feel 
like he wasnt getting anywhere. I think having so many parties and complaint points 
involving different departments and organisations has added to the confusion for VMMF. But 
thats not Mr Rs fault.  
Im mindful there were periods where there was quite a lot of contact between Mr R and 
VMMF such as the second half of 2020 where the inconvenience would have been more 
acute. But there were also significant periods of next to no contact such as in 2021. It seems 
like contact would recommence when VMMF sent arrears letters to Mr R. I imagine Mr R 
was inconvenienced and caused a level of distress when he was going back and forth with 
VMMF. But I think there naturally would have been less distress and inconvenience caused 
when there was no contact. 
All things considered, Ive already set out VMMF should have carried out the direction in the 
final decision straight away. It looks like VMMF did give Mr R details for its collections 
department, but on the whole, I think it should have made it easier for Mr R to speak to it and 
come to an arrangement to pay off his agreement. It wasnt always made clear who Mr R 
needed to speak to. I think VMMF gave him conflicting information on occasion. Such as 
when it thought the complaint was resolved, when in fact it wasnt. There were times it didnt 
contact Mr R when I think it should have. Its not in dispute it ought to have dealt with his 
requests for information more fairly. As I said above, I appreciate there were various 
organisations and departments involved that have likely added to the confusion, but VMMF 
should have dealt with Mr Rs complaint sooner and covered off everything he was unhappy 
about. I think its departments ought to have been better coordinated in this particular case. I 
think this wouldve avoided a lot of the issues thats been caused. Mr R has said the impact 
is that this has exacerbated on-going medical conditions of his. And hes spent a long time 
chasing the matter up and making complaints. 
While I appreciate VMMF agreed to pay Mr R £500 primarily in relation to how it dealt with 
things between mid-2019 and February 2020, Im not going to direct it to simply use that as a 
pro-rata measure for how much compensation it should pay for February 2020 up until Mr R 
referred his complaint to our service in 2022. As I said above, having considered everything 
in the round, I think the extra £350 compensation in all the circumstances is broadly fair and 
reasonable. If Mr R were to accept it, taking into account the compensation hed receive in 
total, I think this is in line with a fair and reasonable award. It acknowledges the impact of 
substantial distress, worry and upset over a long, albeit not always sustained, period of time. Mr R can let us know in response to this provisional decision whether he wants to use this to 
put towards the fixed sum loan agreement. As I said above it looks like VMMF did provide 
Mr R with details of its collection department. But those details were not always correct. 
Therefore, for completeness sake, VMMF should also provide up to date details of who he 
needs to contact to repay any outstanding balance. It should do this in response to this 
provisional decision. 
Finally, I realise Mr R was let down after the last final decision was sent, and hes concerned 
that might happen again. I think its important to note Parliament didnt give the Financial 
Ombudsman the power to enforce final decisions, but Mr R would be able to go to court to 
do that on the basis of any final decision thats made. But I hope that wont be required.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in 
my provisional decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Virgin Media Mobile Finance 
Limited to:
Pay Mr R £350 compensation. 
Should Mr R accept the decision, VMMF must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple. It should also provide us or Mr R with the details Ive set out above so he 
will know who to contact about the debt. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2023. 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman