DRN-2964113
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd hasnt yet accepted a claim made under his 
excess protection policy.
For ease, Ill refer to both Bastion and its claims administrators as Bastion.
What happened
The aim of the policy is to reimburse an excess payment paid by the insured for a claim 
made under a home insurance policy.
Mr A made a claim with his home insurer after an insured item was damaged. His claim was 
accepted in December 2019, and the excess of £500 was deducted from the settlement by 
the insurer. 
Mr A therefore made a claim to Bastion for the £500 excess. Bastion asked Mr As broker to 
provide further information, which was provided. Despite this, Bastion still didnt accept the 
claim. Unhappy with this, Mr A brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld. She thought Mr A and his broker 
had provided Bastion with all the requested information, and there was no valid reason for 
the continued delay in Bastion accepting Mr As claim. She recommended that Bastion pay 
the claim, and also pay Mr A £250 compensation for its handling of the matter.
Bastion didnt accept our investigators recommendations, and so the matter has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr As broker submitted the claim to Bastion on 13 December 2019, they provided 
supporting evidence by way of the excess protection policy schedule, a completed claim 
form, and confirmation of the home insurers settlement of the claim.
The following month, Bastion asked Mr As broker for evidence that the claim had been 
accepted by the home insurer. However, I think this was made clear in the supporting 
evidence sent to Bastion in December 2019.
In May 2020, Bastion requested a copy of the home insurance policy schedule. This couldve 
been requested far sooner, and no reason was given by Bastion for the five-month delay.
In August 2020, Bastion requested an invoice of repairs undertaken or replacement 
obtained. However, the policy doesnt require the insured to repair or replace damaged items 
subject to a claim made under a home insurance policy. It was up to Mr A if he purchased a 
replacement item with the settlement figure that he received from his home insurer. 
Regardless of what Mr A decided to do with the settlement, he isnt required to provide 
evidence of that to Bastion in order for his excess claim to be paid.
Bastion told this service that Mr As broker hadnt submitted the necessary information, and 
that it cant progress the claim without this. I would assume its referring to its request for the 
invoice of repairs or replacement obtained, though as far as I can tell, this was only 
requested in August 2020, which was after Mr A had brought his complaint to this service. 
Bastion says that documentation isnt only requested via email and it does speak to brokers 
to request information. But it hasnt said that it requested this information from Mr As broker 
verbally nor has it provided any evidence to support this (such as call notes or a call 
recording). Therefore, the only evidence Ive seen of this request is the email sent in August 
2020, which was eight months after the claim was submitted. And as Ive said, I dont think 
Bastion needed this information in order to settle the claim. 
It seems to me that Bastion has unnecessarily delayed settling a valid claim, without good 
reason. I therefore require it to now settle the claim. 
I agree with our investigator that Mr A has been caused unnecessary inconvenience as a 
result of Bastions poor handling of the claim, and avoidable delays. He (and his broker on 
his behalf) have had to chase Bastion for updates over a significant length of time, and 
responses werent always forthcoming. However, I think reasonable compensation would be 
£150, rather than the £250 the investigator recommended. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bastion Insurance Co. Ltd to settle 
the claim in line with the policy terms. Interest should be added at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of claim to the date of settlement*. 
*If Bastion considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Bastion should also pay Mr A £150 additional compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman