DRN-4066727
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Zopa Bank 
Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr A was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement 
with Zopa. At the time, the car was around ten years old and had travelled 70,000 miles.
Mr A says the car broke down on 19 December 2022, and he took the car back to the 
supplying dealership on 22 December 2022. The dealership replaced the engine, but Mr A 
wasnt happy with this, so he refused to allow the dealership to return the car to him and 
stopped making payments towards the agreement. He also complained to Zopa, asking to 
cancel the agreement.
Zopa accepted the car was faulty when it was supplied to Mr A. But they said the car had 
been repaired by the dealership. So, they didnt agree that Mr A could reject the car. Mr A 
wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen a report from an independent engineer which confirmed 
there was a fault with the car. But the engineer went on to say that the fault had been 
satisfactorily repaired and was no longer present. The investigator also said that Mr A had 
initially agreed to a repair, and it wasnt until the repair had been completed that he asked to 
reject the car.
However, the investigator said that Zopa had the right of repair and, as the repair was 
successful, he didnt think that Mr A should be allowed to return the car. But, he did say that 
Mr A was without the car for around a month, so he thought that Zopa should refund one 
monthly payment or adjust Mr As credit file to remove one months arrears, and pay Mr A an 
additional £100 for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator. And he provided copies of messages hed sent to the 
dealership which he says shows he asked to reject the car. However, the investigator said 
that these dont show Mr A asked to reject the car within 30 days of it being supplied to him. 
Mr A said this delay was due to the Christmas holidays, and hes asked for an ombudsman 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr A was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to investigate complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Zopa are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale, and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, 
where a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Zopa can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mr A to show it was present when the car 
was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr A took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Zopa to put this right.
Its not disputed that there was a fault with the car when it was supplied to Mr A, nor that the 
dealership replaced the engine. Ive seen a copy of the independent engineers report for an 
inspection that took place on 20 March 2023. The engineer said we would consider the fault 
with the engine to be present at purchase. However, the engineer also confirmed that we 
would consider the repairs and the engine to be a commercially acceptable standard [and] 
the vehicle needs no repairs at present
Ive seen the engineer has confirmed their duty is to the courts, and not to the person who 
instructed and/or paid for the report. As such, Im satisfied its reasonable to rely on this 
report.
Where goods were of an unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply, the CRA allows a 30-
day short term right to reject. And, when this isnt exercised, then the supplier of the goods 
has a single chance at repair. To exercise a short term right to reject, the consumer would 
have to specifically ask to reject the goods  its not sufficient just to identify and complain 
about any faults.
Mr A has confirmed that he took delivery of the car on 26 November 2022. As such, his 
short-term right to reject the car expired on 26 December 2022. While I appreciate this fell 
over the Christmas period, the CRA doesnt make any allowances for bank holidays or other 
non-working days i.e. weekends or when the dealership was shut for other reasons. As 
such, the period of the short-term right to reject remains unaltered.
Ive seen the correspondence between Mr A and the dealership. And, while he had advised 
the dealership there was a fault with the car in mid-December 2022, most of the 
correspondence dates from early January 2023. In the messages Mr A sent the dealership in 
January 2023, he expressed his dissatisfaction and, although he didnt specifically ask to 
reject the car, its clear the messages imply that he wanted to reject. Additionally, the 
correspondence between Mr A and Zopa in January 2023 also shows that he wanted to 
reject the car.However, while Im satisfied that Mr A asked to reject the car, these requests were made 
after his short term right to reject had expired. As such, Zopa werent required to accept 
rejection and had the right to insist on the opportunity to repair the car.
As confirmed by the independent engineer, the car was repaired (by replacing the engine) 
and this repair was successful with no evidence that the original faults remained. Given this, 
and under the terms of the CRA, Mr A doesnt have the right to reject the car, even though 
hes unhappy that a second hand, and not a brand new, engine was put in the car.
So, its for this reason I wont be asking Zopa to take back the car and unwind the 
agreement. However, this doesnt mean that I wont be asking Zopa to do something. 
Putting things right
Mr A was without access to his car for January 2023, while it was being repaired, and I 
understand that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car. As such, Zopa should either:
refund the January payment to Mr A (if it was paid), or 
correct Mr As credit file to remove the missed payment for January 2023 if it wasnt, 
and
apply 8% simple yearly interest on any refund, calculated from the date Mr A made 
the payment to the date of the refund .
In addition to this, Zopa should also pay Mr A £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused by being supplied with a car of an unsatisfactory quality.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Zopa to take off tax from this interest. Zopa must give Mr 
A a certificate showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and Zopa Bank Limited should follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2023.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman