DRN-4019616
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) like-for-like suggestion, 
following a claim under their home insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr A and Mrs A had a leak at their home. The water damaged a carpet and some underlay. 
Mr A and Mrs A made a claim with Aviva. Aviva sent a surveyor who took a sample of the 
carpet that Mr A and Mrs A had. 
Aviva then offered a like-for-like replacement of the carpet. It also said that as a section of 
the underlay had been damaged, it would replace this section only. 
Mr A and Mrs A said that the carpet that Aviva offered as a replacement wasnt like-for-like. 
Their original carpet was a luxury brand and the replacement offered wasnt luxury. They 
also said that they had been told from various carpet retailers that the carpet wasnt a like-for 
-like. And that they wouldnt be able to guarantee the carpet, if only a section of the underlay 
was replaced. They advised them that the entire underlay would need to be replaced. 
Mr A and Mrs A complained to Aviva and requested that Aviva replace their carpet with an 
alternative. They also asked that Aviva replace the entire underlay in the room. 
In its final response, Aviva said that under the policy terms and conditions, it was able to 
replace the carpet with a like-for-like. The carpet that it had found as an alternative had a 
similar material content and depth, as that of Mr A and Mrs As original carpet. It also said 
that the carpet wouldnt be compromised by only some of the underlay being replaced. So, it 
maintained its position, that it had offered a like-for-like replacement. It also confirmed that if 
Mr A and Mrs A wanted to purchase an alternative carpet to the one it offered, then they 
could pay the difference. 
Mr A and Mrs A were unhappy with the outcome and as they had been given their referral 
rights, referred a complaint to our service. One of our investigators considered the complaint 
and ultimately decided that it shouldnt be upheld. She said that Aviva had offered a like-for 
like replacement carpet and had provided expert opinion that it was a suitable alternative. 
She also said that she agreed with Aviva that a section of the underlay could be replaced, 
without compromising the carpet that would be laid on top. 
Aviva accepted the view, Mr A and Mrs A did not. They said that they had been told by 
various carpet retailers, that the carpet that Aviva was replacing wasnt like-for-like. They 
had been advised to get their original carpet (a sample of which they still had) examined by 
an expert and compared to the carpet that Aviva had suggested was a credible alternative. 
They also said that they had been told by a few retailers that replacing a section of the 
underlay would compromise any carpet that was laid on top. So, they asked for a decision 
from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this might be a disappointment to Mr A and Mrs A, but I hope 
my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I have considered all the comments from both parties. I think the main issue of this complaint 
is whether the carpet that Aviva offered was a like-for-like suitable alternative. Ive looked at 
the policy terms and conditions to see what both partys obligations were. 
Mr A and Mrs A under the policy terms must prove the loss. In this complaint, I think that this 
would be proving that their damaged carpet was of a better quality than the carpet that Aviva 
offered as a replacement. Although, I accept that Mr A and Mrs A have mentioned that they 
had been advised by various carpet retailers that the like-for-like carpet from Aviva wasnt a 
suitable alternative, I have seen no written confirmation from any of the retailers they 
approached. 
I note that Mr A and Mrs A said that they had also been advised to engage the services of an 
expert who could provide evidence of comparing both carpets to prove that the carpet Aviva 
offered wasnt a like-for-like alternative. Again, I have seen no expert evidence that supports 
this. 
In addition, Mr A and Mrs A were asked to provide any further evidence (which could include 
expert evidence) for me to consider. Nothing further was provided. 
I understand from the evidence that the carpet manufacturer of Mr A and Mrs As carpet, had 
ceased trading. So, under the policy terms Aviva could provide a suitable alternative.
Aviva used an expert who examined not only the carpet that Aviva offered as a suitable 
alternative, but also compared this with the sample of carpet that he took from Mr A and Mrs 
As carpet. The expert concluded the following: 
Sample transferred to the bag dated 09/02/2023 - the sample matches the photos on the 
claim The cream sample is a tufted cut pile - hessian backing - wool mix - single ply yarn - 
8mm pile height - 12/10stich and gauge - with a velvet finish - approx 48oz m2 at best. The 
like for like would be Cavalier Cartouche Regal 80/15/5 Wool/Nylon/Polyester 48 Sec Velvet 
£47.41 basket selling price. 
As we are not experts in this field, we do rely on expert evidence, where there is a dispute to 
assist in the assessment of complaints. Mr A and Mrs A I think were given the opportunity to 
present their complaint (which wouldve included obtaining expert evidence) as best as they 
wished to. 
Aviva used an expert to support their contentions that the alternative carpet was a suitable 
replacement. Consequently, in the absence of any specialist evidence that refutes Avivas 
expert, Im persuaded that Aviva has provided a like-for-like alternative. 
I have next considered whether Aviva ought to replace the entire underlay. From the 
evidence, there was slight damage to the underlay and Aviva said that they would replace 
the damaged part. Mr A and Mrs A said that they wanted the whole room underlay being replaced. They said 
that they had been advised that if it wasnt replaced, it would affect the carpet that was laid 
on top. And the carpet itself wouldnt be guaranteed. 
Aviva said that it had been advised from its experts that replacing the damaged section 
wouldnt have a detrimental effect on the carpet. I agree and Ill explain why.  Under the 
policy terms Avivas obligations were to replace the damaged section, so Im satisfied that it 
agreed to do this. Also, I agree that the underlay can be installed, so as not to have an effect 
on the carpet, which would be laid on top. Consequently, I dont think its fair or reasonable 
for me to direct Aviva to replace the entire underlay, rather than just the damaged section. 
Taking everything into account, whilst I understand how disappointed Mr A and Mrs A will 
be, there was no expert evidence to show that the alternative carpet that Aviva offered 
wasnt like-for-like. Also, I dont think its fair or reasonable for Aviva to replace the entire 
underlay, rather than just the damaged section. 
Finally, Aviva could offer a cash alternative or as it proposed, Mr A and Mrs A could still get 
the carpet they wanted if they paid the difference in price. For these reasons, I cant fairly 
ask Aviva to do anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman