DRN-4515792
The complaint
Mrs Y complains that Wise Payments Limited hasnt refunded the losses she incurred when 
she was the victim of an investment scam.
What happened
In January 2021, Mrs Y set up a business account with Wise. This was denominated in 
US dollars. When it was opened, Mrs Y stated the purpose as being for use in trading, by a 
business Mrs Y runs.
Nearly six months later, Mrs Y was befriended by someone she met through an online dating 
app. Ill refer to that individual as T. 
T claimed to be a trader using an investment platform offering cryptocurrency trading. Mrs Y 
says shed had previous experience with high-risk Contracts For Difference trading (CFDs). 
Having that prior experience, she was interested to learn more about trading in 
cryptocurrencies and T offered to help.
T assisted Mrs Y with setting up accounts with various cryptocurrency exchanges. But when 
she attempted to transfer funds to her wallet, despite trying with four different credit cards, 
nothing worked. 
T suggested purchasing cryptocurrency peer-to-peer and using that to then fund her account 
on the trading platform. In this type of transaction, payment is made to someone looking to 
sell cryptocurrency, and that cryptocurrency is then transferred directly to the purchasers 
cryptocurrency wallet. T pointed Mrs Y to someone who could sell her cryptocurrency this 
way.
Mrs Y made payments to that person through her Wise business account. As expected, she 
successfully received the corresponding cryptocurrency into a wallet she held with one of the 
major exchanges.
From there she was able to send the cryptocurrency to the trading platform T suggested. 
With Ts help she appeared to be making rapid gains. She sent further payments via her 
Wise business account, purchasing more cryptocurrency peer-to-peer from various sellers. 
The payments she made from her Wise business account were sent to six different 
beneficiary accounts. These were all in the names of individuals, with the exception of the 
sixth account which appears to have been in the name of an LLC (Limited Liability 
Company). Between 14 July and 30 July, Mrs Y made twenty payments totalling $51,580.68. 
The largest of these payments was for the sum of $4,836.70.
Mrs Y was told not to put a reference on any of the payments. She explains she believed 
that this might be something that would allow the sellers of cryptocurrency to avoid taxes on 
their side. However, it is also the case that Wises terms and conditions do not permit 
payments for cryptocurrency, so this had the effect of hiding the true purpose of the 
payments from Wise.
T also told her that if Wise was to ask about the payments, Mrs Y shouldnt give the real 
reason. T said she should say she was paying friends. She says that it didnt seem unusual 
to lie, as T had told her to do the same when shed previously made payments from other 
accounts she holds, and when those banks had contacted her.
Mrs Y borrowed some of the funds she used, including money from her brother. When she 
did so, she said she needed it to pay taxes, not wanting to disclose the true reason.
However, after apparently making significant profits (in excess of $100,000 dollars) Mrs Y 
had difficulties when she attempted to withdraw from the trading platform. After being asked 
to pay taxes and fees, Mrs Y found that the trading platform stopped responding. 
Eventually, Mrs Y began to realise all had not been as it seemed. Having traced the 
cryptocurrency shed sent, she concluded that the trading platform wasnt legitimate, and 
that shed been scammed. She reported this to Wise.
Wise said it provides a money remittance service and it could not get involved in disputes 
between senders and recipients. Here there was nothing to suggest that the recipients 
hadnt provided what Mrs Y had paid for - the loss had happened later when the 
cryptocurrency shed received was moved from Mrs Ys wallet held with another company. In 
any event, by the time Mrs Y had reported the scam, no funds remained in the accounts 
shed transferred her funds to  so there was no prospect of being able to recover any of 
Mrs Ys money. 
Wise had no reason to suspect Mrs Ys payments were for the purchase of cryptocurrency, 
and shed not indicated that was what she was doing. The payment patterns had been 
normal for a Wise business account. Overall Wise said it had no reason not to permit the 
payments Mrs Y had made. It wasnt liable for the losses that later resulted.
Mrs Y didnt accept this. Our Investigator looked into the matter and thought Wise could 
have identified that the payments Mrs Y had made to the sixth account (the LLC account) 
might not have been legitimate. The Investigator noted that Wise appeared say it had 
concerns about that specific account at some point. 
Wise didnt agree. It explained the facts werent as the Investigator had believed. It had no 
active concerns about the LLC account at the point Mrs Y had made the disputed transfers. 
So there was no reason for Wise to suspect anything untoward in Mrs Ys payments. It had 
no reason to have had any concerns about the transfers Mrs Y was making to this (or to the 
other accounts).
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to review everything afresh and reach a 
decision on the matter.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mrs Ys complaint on 15 November 2023. In 
my provisional findings, I explained why I didnt intend to uphold Mrs Ys complaint and 
offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im 
required to take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. 
Upon reading all the available evidence and arguments, I have reached a provisional 
finding that the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, is that Wise is not liable to refund the losses Mrs Y sustained through this scam. I will explain why.
Both sides here accept that Mrs Y was the victim of a cruel and manipulative scam. She 
has lost a significant sum as a result. However, my natural sympathy for the horrendous 
effect this scam has had on Mrs Y doesnt mean I can fairly hold Wise responsible. What 
I must determine here is whether Wise should reasonably be held liable for the amount 
that was lost to the scam.
As a starting point in law, Wise has a primary obligation to carry out correctly authorised 
payment instructions given to it by its customers and without delay. Mrs Y is therefore 
responsible for the payments she instructed Wise to make.
However, that isnt the end of the story. As a matter of good industry practice, Id expect 
Wise to have been on the lookout for significantly unusual or out of character 
transactions that might be indicative of the risk of loss through fraud or scam.
Here Wise says the relevant transactions werent significantly unusual. Mrs Ys was a 
relatively new account. It was an account set up with the specified purpose of trading by 
a business and denominated in a foreign currency. The size and frequency of the 
transactions Mrs Y made in connection with the scam simply werent unexpected for an 
account of this type. Neither did they have any obvious connection to cryptocurrency 
investment - or to a scam or fraud. Wise therefore had no reason not to carry out its 
primary obligation to process the payment instructions it was given.
Ive considered whether this was reasonable in the circumstances. I find it relevant that 
Mrs Ys account was a business account, that it was set up for the purpose of Mrs Ys 
business trading activity and that there was only a very brief period of prior account 
history against which Wise could possibly have compared the scam transactions. 
None of the payments was remarkable in size for a business account, all being less than 
$5,000. The total value of just over $50,000 doesnt in isolation seem particularly 
remarkable for a business account either. The payments went to multiple different 
beneficiary accounts, so the frequency and number of payments being made to any one 
payee also wouldnt have stood out.
In short therefore, none of payments was sufficiently unusual that I could reasonably find 
Wise to have been at fault through following Mrs Ys instructions.
While our Investigator believed that Wise had concerns about beneficiary account 
number six, Wise has since confirmed that it did not have concerns about that account 
at the time Mrs Y was making her payments to it. I have found no information which 
would contradict what Wise says on this point. And I cannot find Wise at fault for not 
acting on concerns if those concerns did not exist at that point and there was no obvious 
cause for it to have held such concerns at the time.
All taken into consideration therefore I dont find Wise was at fault here  it followed Mrs 
Ys instructions in making the payments she asked it to. It was obligated to carry out 
these payments.
In saying the above, I am extremely sorry to hear about what has happened to Mrs Y 
here, and the extent of the impact that Ts actions have had on her. She was the 
blameless victim of a sophisticated and carefully designed crime, and a scam that was 
designed to defraud her of her money. But despite my natural sympathy for Mrs Y and 
the situation shes been left in, I cant fairly find Wise at fault or otherwise liable to 
recompense her for the money that was stolen from her. In my provisional decision, I asked both sides to provide any further arguments or 
information by 12 December 2023, after which point, I said I would issue my final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Y did not respond to my provisional conclusions with additional information or 
arguments. Neither has Wise raised any further points or information. 
In light of this, I see no reason to depart from the findings and the resolution I proposed in 
my provisional decision as quoted above, and for the same reasons. 
In short, for the reasons detailed above, it is my final decision that Wise is not liable to 
recompense Mrs Y for the money that she lost through this scam.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint about Wise Payments Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman