DRN-2575620
The complaint
Mr S complains that the hire purchase agreement financed by Black Horse Limited and the 
static caravan he acquired through it were misrepresented. He wants compensation for the 
losses hes incurred 
What happened
Mr S tells us that in November 2018 he decided to acquire a static caravan from a dealer Ill 
refer to as P. He says that the price of the goods was advertised in the window of the 
caravan as £24,343. He says he was told by sales staff that this included the full inventory of 
items within the caravan including fridge and microwave. And that he was told that site fees 
for 2019 were free. Mr S explains that some months later he decided to sell the caravan. 
And it was at that time that he says he was advised that the price hed paid for the caravan 
was only £15,406,99. With the remaining cost being made up of site fees and setting up 
costs. Mr S confirms that he sold the caravan back to P for £6,000 in early 2020.
Black Horse said it didnt agree thered been any misrepresentation. And that Mr S had been 
allowed plenty of time to read through the agreement before signing it. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 January 2021. I indicated that I 
intended to uphold the complaint. And that I thought thered been a misrepresentation 
regarding both the price of the goods and the site fees. And that Mr S should receive a 
proportionate refund of the sale price.
Since my provisional decision both parties have replied. And both have accepted my 
provisional decision. I thank the parties for their responses and in the light of those replies Ill 
largely repeat my provisional decision in my final decision which is set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S complaint is that the static caravan he acquired was misrepresented in terms of price. 
And that the hire purchase agreement was also misrepresented in that it included charges 
for site fees and additional items without his knowledge or consent.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant law here includes the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA); and the Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading 
Regulations of 2008 (CPUTR).
Black Horse is potentially liable if any misrepresentation was made by P in antecedent 
negotiations with Mr S. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a 
consumer to enter an agreement and incur a loss as a result of the misrepresentation.
Its necessary to look at exactly what, if any, was the nature of any misrepresentation. 
CPUTR requires the consumer to be supplied with information about the goods that the 
average consumer would require in order to make an informed decision about whether to 
acquire them.
Mr S has told us he thought he was acquiring a static home for a price of £24,343. He also 
believed that he wouldnt have to pay pitch fees for 2019. His reason for this belief is that he 
says this is was what Ps representative had told him.
Black Horse has provided testimony from P which in effect disputes what Mr S is alleging. 
And it (P) states that Mr S was taken through the sales process carefully. And that it had 
been explained that the site fees were included in the headline price  not that they were 
free.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its obviously not possible for me to know for sure what was said during discussions. So Ive 
looked at the various documents that have been supplied. This includes the hire purchase 
agreement; dealer proposal reply form; and the holiday home sale agreement.
The hire purchase agreement itself states that the cash price of the goods is £24,343. 
Nowhere does it separate this into separate amounts for different services. In my opinion, its 
likely that anyone looking at this document would believe it referred to the single item price 
of the caravan.
The dealer proposal reply form also refers only to the price of goods as being £24,343. 
Ive seen an email signed by sales advisor J and dated 28 October 2019. The author of this 
email indicates that she was present when Mr S viewed the caravan prior to supply.
The email states that the price of the caravan was advertised on the window of the caravan 
as having been discounted from £28,343 to £24,343. This corroborates what Mr S has 
stated about where the price was displayed. But the email goes on to state that (my 
underlining):
you were also able to take advantage of site fees being included in the offer saving you yet 
another £4,175. Both these offers saved you £8,175
Whilst this email was written many months after the negotiations prior to the agreement, the 
fact it was written by someone who was present during discussions allows the reasonable 
inference to be made that it was based on their recollection of what was said.
The email suggests that Mr S saved £8,175 on the original advertised price. This would only 
have been the case if the pitch fees were free and the price had been reduced to £20,168.
As J apparently still believes there was a saving of £8,175  even in the light of the disputed circumstances  it seems probable that this is what she communicated to Mr S at the time.
Im aware that there is a dispute about just how much time and under what circumstances 
Mr S signed the various forms. But given the hire purchase agreement itself sets out the 
price of the goods as £24,473 (no indication of ancillary costs) and the breakdown of items 
was only on page 2 (not the signature page) of the sale agreement, I can see why Mr S may 
not have looked as closely at the entire set of documents as may have been prudent.
Taken together with the contents of the email to which Ive referred - and which I find 
suggests that what the sales advisor probably did say amounted to an indication that the 
pitch fees were free  namely that there was a saving of £8,175 off the item price of the 
caravan  I conclude on a balance of probabilities that there was an incorrect statement of 
fact.
But an incorrect statement of fact only becomes a misrepresentation if it induces the 
consumer into the agreement. If the consumer wouldve entered the agreement anyway then 
theres no misrepresentation. Although there may be a breach of contract.
Looking at the deal overall, Mr S knew he was obtaining a caravan which was suitable for his 
purposes. Theres ample evidence that he was enthusiastic about the acquisition. He was 
aware his initial total basic outlay was just over £24,000. And that he wouldnt be asked for 
any more site fees until the end of 2019. So it can be argued that in one sense thats what 
he got.
But I believe that what is probably the most important difference relates to the relationship 
between the cost of the caravan itself and the additional costs.
Mr S believed that he was getting goods valued around £24,000. And it seems that part of 
the attraction was that he would be potentially able to cover some or all of the future site fees 
by renting out the caravan. The difference between the actual cost of the goods £15,406 and 
the headline price (£24,473), was made up of other costs which were mostly essential to the 
occupation of the caravan. This included site fees, connection fees, general rates, water 
rates and insurance costs for the remainder of 2018 and the whole of 2019. Along with the 
inventory items. In other words, the associated costs would be more than 50 % on top of the 
single item price.
Although I havent seen any documentary information to confirm this, it seems that Mr S 
used most if of not all of his savings to finance the deal. So this was an important purchase 
for him.
I understand he paid off most of the original borrowing of £21,343, by paying £15,000 in a 
partial early repayment. Im not sure how the remaining balance was repaid - presumably by 
some monthly payments and a lump sum either before the sale or from the proceeds of sale.
Ive reached the conclusion on the balance of probabilities that - if Mr S had known that the 
headline price of the caravan was only around £15,000 and that the additional costs 
amounted to more than half of that amount again  he wouldnt have proceeded with the 
agreement. He referred in his complaint to the colossal and disproportionate additional 
sum. So its clear this was an important issue to him. Im satisfied there was a 
misrepresentation relating to both the price of the goods and the site fees.
Where a misrepresentation has occurred our approach is to try to put the consumer back to 
the same position as if the misrepresentation hadnt occurred. That would usually involve the 
return of goods and the refund of payments.But here theres the added factors that Mr S had use of the caravan for all of 2019. And has 
resold it to P. He also obtained rental income from it during 2019.
Its only fair and reasonable that I take this into account when determining what needs to be 
done to put things right.
The overall basic cost of the deal was £24,343.
This was comprised of the cost of the caravan £15,406.99; site fees £4175 - £120 early 
discount (£4,055); rates and insurance of £1,121.01, and other costs of £3,760 including 
ancillary items and connection fees.
I think the fairest approach is to start with the basic price of the total agreement. From this 
needs to be deducted items relating to the use of the caravan between date of acquisition 
and date of sale.
I think its fair he should pay the rates and insurance costs which amount to £1,121.01;
Those fees including service connections and anchors which amount to £2,005;
And the inventory and additional items which amount to £1,755.
As there was rental income of £4,725 this should also be taken into account.
Finally, Mr S recovered £6,000 from the sale of the caravan. Ive assumed the inventory 
items were included in this sale.
Total deductions amount to £15,606.01
Accordingly, I believe that Mr S should be refunded a balance of £8,736.99.
I also think £200 is an appropriate figure to reflect any distress and inconvenience arising 
from the misrepresentation.
Putting things right
Black Horse Limited should now take the following action:
1. Refund £8,736.99 to Mr S;
2. Pay Mr S £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to the sum in item 1 above from 
the date of the resale of the caravan to P to date of settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. Black 
Horse Limited is required to take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman