DRN-3193488
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Santander UK Plc misled her that it would extend the term of her 
interest only mortgage. She asks for compensation for the worry and stress this caused.
  
What happened
Mrs S took out a joint repayment mortgage in 2006. She switched to interest only payments 
after she lost her partner and found capital repayments unaffordable. The term is due to 
expire in 2024.
Mrs S contacted Santander in 2020 about switching back to a repayment basis and 
extending the term. Santander said this wasnt affordable. It said Mrs S could extend her 
term on an interest only basis. Mrs S completed the forms it sent, and was then told this 
wasnt possible.
Mrs S says she was led to believe her term would be extended, and this caused a great deal 
of distress. She says she has some options to repay the mortgage. Shes also said an 
extension on an interest only basis is the only viable option for her.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties saying that I didnt think Santander had treated 
Mrs S fairly. I said it should arrange an appointment for Mrs S with one of its mortgage 
advisers so they can explore her options and whats in her best interests. 
While Mrs S was disappointed when she found out the term of her mortgage wouldnt be 
extended, I said that £50 was fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances  I 
didnt think its right for Santander to extend Mrs Ss mortgage simply because its error 
raised her expectations. 
Both Mrs S and Santander responded to say they had no additional comments or evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander wasnt clear about its process when it talked to Mrs S about extending the term of 
her mortgage. She thought the term would be extended once she completed and returned 
the requested forms. So I can understand how disappointed she was to be told the term 
wouldnt be extended.
I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Santander to extend the term of 
Mrs Ss mortgage simply because Mrs S was given the impression, wrongly, that this would 
happen.
Mrs S says being given the wrong information was distressing. While I understand this, I 
think that at the heart of this complaint is Mrs Ss understandable worry about what will 
happen when the term of her mortgage expires.
Santander does need to consider Mrs Ss circumstances before agreeing to extend her 
mortgage. The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it 
expects stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment 
strategy before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages. Mrs S wants to vary her 
mortgage by extending the term.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014. First, where an 
existing mortgage is to be varied and theres no change to its terms likely to be material to 
affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt apply, the lender doesnt have to carry out an 
assessment of affordability or repayment strategy provided the loan balance hasnt 
increased since 2014 (which appears to be the case here) and the proposed change is in the 
borrowers best interests.
I should say that this doesnt mean Santander cant consider affordability, and ask for 
information about Mrs Ss circumstances to do so. Santander can fairly take this into account 
when considering whats in Mrs Ss best interests. I should also say that while the exception 
allows Santander to agree to vary the mortgage despite concerns about affordability it isnt 
required to do so. It could still fairly decline to extend the term for another reason.
Santander said switching the mortgage to repayment terms wasnt affordable. Its unlikely to 
be in Mrs Ss best interests to require her to make monthly payments she cant afford.
Santander declined to extend the mortgage on an interest only basis because Mrs S didnt 
meet its criteria for repayment of an interest only mortgage by sale of property. But this is an 
existing mortgage and Santander needs to treat Mrs S fairly and consider her best interests. 
Rules on mortgage regulation allow Santander to extend the term regardless of the 
repayment strategy if this is in Mrs Ss best interests.
I asked Santander if it had considered this and asked for its notes. It said it wasnt aware of 
any circumstances that would make it in Mrs Ss interest to extend the term without 
confirmation that there is a plausible plan to repay the mortgage. It said if Mrs Ss 
circumstances have changed or she has additional information that supports how shes able 
to repay the mortgage it will consider a new application from her. Santander didnt provide 
notes to show it had asked Mrs S for additional information or discussed her circumstances 
with her to see if an extension on an interest only basis would be in her best interests.
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Santander properly considered whether an 
extension on an interest only basis would be in Mrs Ss best interests. Mrs S contacted 
Santander because she was concerned about her interest only mortgage expiring with an 
unpaid balance and wanted to sort it out. Mrs S wouldnt have known what options there 
might be to extend her mortgage or how rules on mortgage regulation might apply to her 
situation. I think Santander should have asked Mrs S about her circumstances, to explore 
what options she might have to repay the mortgage in the future, or at least make her aware 
that a discussion about this was a possibility, depending on her circumstances. I havent 
seen evidence that it did this. It had another opportunity to make Mrs S aware of this when it 
responded to her complaint  but again I havent seen evidence that it did.
Mrs S has three years left before her mortgage term expires. She says she has some 
options for how shell repay it. I think Santander needs to do more to assess whats in 
Mrs Ss best interests and what her options are, including whether a term extension would 
be in her best interests. I think Santander should make an appointment for Mrs S to meet 
with its mortgage adviser to explore her options.I must be clear that Im not making any findings here that it would be in Mrs Ss best 
interests to extend the term  only that this is something that Santander ought to have 
explored with her. I would urge Mrs S to attend the appointment with Santander to discuss 
her options. Id expect Santander to treat Mrs S fairly when discussing her options, but I 
should also say that bringing this complaint doesnt prevent Mrs S raising a new complaint if 
she thinks Santander hasnt done so.
Mrs S says that £50 isnt enough for her disappointment when she found out the term of her 
mortgage wouldnt be extended. I think £50 is fair and reasonable compensation in the 
circumstances  as Ive said I dont think its right for Santander to extend Mrs Ss mortgage 
simply because its error raised her expectations. I think the best outcome here is for Mrs S 
to have a full discussion with Santander about her circumstances and her options.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to:
arrange an appointment for Mrs S with one of its mortgage advisers so they can explore 
her options and whats in her best interests. 
pay £50 to Mrs S, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman