DRN-2662128
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as H, complains that UK Insurance Limited, trading as NIG, 
declined a claim made on its commercial property insurance policy.
Mr P, who is a director of H, brings the complaint on Hs behalf.
What happened
A claim was made in 2018 as a result of crack damage at Hs property, in two main areas  
the rear right corner of the extension and the nearby retaining wall. NIG appointed a loss 
adjuster, who inspected the damage. They didnt think it was covered by the policy.
H arranged for ground investigations and a structural engineer inspection to be carried out, 
both of which produced reports which were shared with the loss adjuster. They reconsidered 
the claim but maintained the damage wasnt covered by the policy. H complained.
NIGs final response said, in summary:
The extension was suffering from subsidence as a result of being built on made 
ground  which is excluded from policy cover.
The retaining wall was failing due to inadequate construction and water pressure  
neither of which is covered by the policy.
H didnt think NIG had considered the cause of the damage thoroughly. It said that, for 
example, the loss adjusters inspection had lasted no more than 30 minutes, NIG hadnt 
helped to find the source of the water, and the made ground samples were taken from 
outside the building rather than underneath it.
H then arranged for further investigations into the ground conditions. NIG considered the 
results but said the claim was still declined for the same reasons as before. And it didnt 
think the water problem amounted to a flood or anything else insured by the policy. 
Our investigator considered the complaint and thought NIG had acted fairly. H disagreed, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this complaint concerns two areas of damage, Ill consider each separately.
Extension
The loss adjusters initial report noted cracking to the external wall and the internal 
blockwork encasing the steel columns supporting the building. They thought it was caused 
by a combination of thermal expansion, corrosion of the steel columns, or movement of the 
steel frame due to poor bracing or overloading with extraction equipment. They didnt think 
this damage had been caused by subsidence or anything else insured by the policy.
H received advice from a structural engineer, L. They said that some of the internal cracking 
indicated subsidence had occurred, although they noted that some of the cracking was 
caused in other ways  such as shrinkage. They thought the ground beneath the foundation 
was soft, wet and likely to be made up ground.
H arranged for an investigation into the ground conditions to be carried out by Y. They found 
made ground to a depth of 3m near the building. They also found significant amounts of 
water, which they thought was flowing under the building.
The loss adjuster reconsidered the damage, including the findings of Y and L. It accepted 
the damage may have been caused by subsidence, which is insured, but said the policy 
didnt cover subsidence caused by the settlement of made ground or by defective design.
Later ground investigations were carried out by G. They found significant deposits of made 
ground underneath the building and said it may be engineered fill designed to provide an 
engineered platform. I understand that to mean it would be a superior composition, strength 
and suitability of material to that generally referred to as made ground. But whilst G has 
noted its a possibility, it hasnt gone so far as to say its likely. And its not something 
mentioned by the other experts. So Im not persuaded I should consider the material 
substantially different to made ground based on the evidence available.
H has pointed out that Y took ground samples outside the extension  not underneath it  so 
that didnt confirm the building was founded on made ground. I agree with that. Their 
diagram shows the holes were dug near to the extension but not within it.
Ys report said its likely significant amounts of water flowing under the building are causing 
collapse compression within the underlying soils, thus exacerbating settlement. It was 
written by a geotechnical engineer. Its detailed and thorough. Its also consistent with the 
view set out by L, a structural engineer. So I think at this point the weight of expert evidence 
showed the extension was likely to be built on made ground.
Gs report was written after H expressed its concerns about the location of Ys samples. I 
understand one of the holes G dug was through the concrete floor of the extension and 
showed made ground to a significant depth. So whilst I understand Hs earlier concerns, I 
think the evidence has shown the extension is built on made ground.
Overall, it seems to be accepted that some of the crack damage to the rear of the extension 
has been caused by subsidence. The experts broadly agree this is likely to be a result of the 
made ground compressing, softening or settling  something which is likely to have been 
exacerbated by the presence of water.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence  but not the settlement or movement of 
made-up ground. Given the opinions of the experts, Im persuaded the subsidence has 
been caused by movement of the made ground. Because of that, Im satisfied it was fair for 
NIG to decline the claim for this damage.
The experts have noted other damage in this area likely to be caused by shrinkage and 
thermal expansion. I dont consider these causes to be covered by the policy.
Retaining wallThe extension has a small wall around the rear right corner. Its at a lower level than the 
extension floor and I understand it retains the material the extension is built on.
The loss adjusters initial report said the wall had failed as a result of inadequate design and 
construction because it doesnt have any weep holes to release pressure from water build-
up. It said the wall was being pushed over by the water pressure and loading from the 
material behind it.
L also observed a lack of weep holes in the retaining wall and considered water may be 
getting trapped under the building. It indicated the material was applying pressure to the wall 
and said it had no vertical reinforcement.
Similarly, Y thought groundwater was flowing under the building and behind the retaining 
wall, increasing the pressure on it significantly as there was no observable drainage.
The loss adjuster considered the findings of Y and L supported its opinion about the cause of 
damage to the wall. In addition to its earlier findings, it said the damage was also caused by 
excessive groundwater and was failing gradually. It didnt think any of the causes 
contributing to the failure of the wall were insured under the policy.
G found groundwater at the front of the property  but not the rear. It noted water moving 
along the side of the building, down a slope, toward the rear. This is consistent with the loss 
adjusters photos, which identified water and moss growth along the side of the building.
None of the experts have described the retaining wall as subsiding, or moving downwards, 
so I dont think thats whats happened to it. Instead they describe it moving laterally, or 
outwards, as a result of pressure building behind it. Theres broad agreement this is a result 
of water building up and not being able to drain away.
The policy covers damage caused by water escaping from tanks, apparatus or pipes. Whilst 
its unclear exactly where its coming from, none of the experts have suggested its from a 
leaking pipe or similar. Instead it appears to be groundwater entering the property.
The policy also covers damage caused by flood. NIG doesnt think theres evidence of a 
flood. It considers a flood is a one-off event. It says Hs wall has been damaged by a 
gradual excessive build-up of water over time, unable to escape due to the construction of 
the wall, and this isnt a flood.
The policy doesnt define the word flood. So it should be considered according to its 
ordinary, everyday meaning. In my view, a flood can be sudden, but it doesnt have to be. A 
slow leak that gradually builds up a significant body of water could be considered a flood.
Ive thought about the circumstances at Hs property and taken into account the way the 
experts have described the problem. There is clearly water moving around the property. But 
rather than a body of water collecting and causing the damage directly, it seems to have 
seeped into the material, the material has then expanded, and the pressure of the material 
on the wall has increased. Because of that, Im not persuaded the cracking in the wall can 
fairly be said to have been caused by a build-up of a body of water, or a flood.
The policy covers any accident cause. This phrase isnt defined. I understand it to mean 
damage caused accidentally, which I would usually consider to be something unintended 
and unexpected by the policyholder. Im satisfied thats the case for the wall damage. There 
are a number of exclusions to this section of cover. NIG has mentioned gradual damage, 
defective workmanship and changes in the water table. Based on the findings of the experts, 
Im satisfied those exclusions apply to Hs claim.Overall, Im satisfied it was fair for NIG to decline the claim for this damage.
Summary
I know H feels strongly that NIG ought to have done more to help during a difficult time for 
the business. For example, by helping to find the source of the water problem, more or 
longer inspections, and carrying out more investigation. H points out that its provided most 
of the expert evidence and investigations.
NIGs policy provides cover for damage caused in certain ways. Unless the evidence shows 
or indicates the damage is likely to have been caused in one of those ways, NIG isnt obliged 
to offer any further support or carry out more investigations. Whilst its clear that H would 
have appreciated more support and assistance from NIG, NIG wasnt required to provide it.
For the reasons above, I think NIG acted fairly when it declined Hs claim for the crack 
damage. I recognise this leaves H with a significant problem that may be expensive to put 
right  and which is impacting its ability to operate and trade as it would usually do.
H has mentioned seeking further advice on the problem. If it does receive further 
information, its entitled to share this with NIG  and Id expect NIG to consider it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman