DRN-4090952
The complaint
Mr H complains about the way Shop Direct Finance Company Limited trading as Littlewoods 
(Shop Direct) administered his shopping account. 
What happened
Mr H had a shopping account with Shop Direct. 
One of the features of the account was that Mr H could purchase items using credit and not 
have to repay what he borrowed until 12 months later  referred to as buy now pay later 
(BNPL). Provided the order was repaid in full within 12 months it would attract no interest. If 
the order was not repaid in full within 12 months, it would attract interest, usually calculated 
over the whole 12 months from when the order was made.  
Mr H had two BNPL orders which are relevant to his complaint. Order one, purchases made 
in May 2020 for £172, on which the interest free period ended on 7 May 2021. And order 
two, purchases made in July 2020 for £189.73, on which the interest free period ended on 
30 July 2021.
Sometime in 2020 Mr H said he experienced problems accessing his online account which 
went on for several months. 
In April 2021 Mr H complained about the problem to Shop Direct. He said that because he 
couldnt access his account online, he hadnt been able to make payments or place new 
orders. 
In response to Mr Hs complaint Shop Direct said he should have been sent a letter 
containing details about a new account and how to register it. But it said this letter was never 
sent. Shop Direct explained how Mr H could now register his new account and said it raised 
a cheque for £20 as compensation for any inconvenience it had caused him. Shop Direct 
said that Mr H was still being sent paper statements which would give his account balance 
information and alternative ways to make payments to the account.
Mr H said he still couldnt access his online account after this. He said when he spoke to 
Shop Direct on the phone about his account he was told that no payments were due. 
Mr H eventually gained access to his online account on 16 July 2021. Mr H complained to 
Shop Direct again at this point. He said the lack of account access meant the interest free 
period expired on order one before he was able to pay the order in full. He said he incurred 
the full interest charges on the order of £186.08 as well as late payment/default fees of £24. 
Mr H also said he should be given longer to repay order two interest free because of the 
problems hed experienced.  
On 26 July 2021 Shop Direct said it would be unable to waive the interest that was due to be 
applied to order two as Mr H had confirmed he was now able to access his account online, 
and because he would have been aware the order was due to expire since he made it 12 
months previous.
Shop Direct said it had issued a refund for all of the interest that was charged on order one 
along with the default charges of £24.
Dissatisfied with Shop Directs response to his complaint Mr H referred his complaint to this 
service. 
An investigator didnt think Shop Direct needed to do any more than it already had. She said 
Mr H had online access to his account before the interest free period ended on order two 
and she thought it was likely hed have known when it expired for a long time before then 
anyway. So, she didnt think Shop Direct should refund the interest that was charged on that 
order. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigator and asked an ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
said Shop Direct had denied him access to a method of making payments that suited his 
working pattern so he wasnt able to pay off his account in the way hed have liked over a 
period of time. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H said he thinks the issues he experienced accessing his account were initially the result 
of it becoming compromised in some way such that he needed new log in details. Shop 
Direct accepted in April 2021 that it hadnt sent Mr H everything it should have to enable him 
to register the new account details. It provided compensation for the inconvenience caused 
to him. 
While I understand why Mr H wishes to know what went wrong, I think its right to focus on 
the subsequent problems he said this caused him and whether Shop Direct needs to do 
anything more in respect of those  particularly given Mr H does not appear to have had any 
further problems accessing his online account since the problem was sorted in July 2021. 
Shop Direct gave Mr H instructions on how to access his new account in April 2021. But Mr 
H said he still couldnt make payments online after this. From email communications Ive 
seen between Mr H and Shop Direct in July 2021 it appears Mr H may have been inputting 
some information incorrectly on the log in screen. Comparing the instructions Shop Direct 
gave Mr H with what its adviser eventually told him was going wrong, its possible Shop 
Directs instructions werent quite clear enough. 
Even if that was the case however, I still need to consider whether Mr H was treated unfairly 
or lost out as a result. 
Mr H said his inability to make payments online as a result of the problem and then Shop 
Directs insistence that he owed nothing when he called it to pay affected his ability to repay 
order one before the end of the interest free period or to make inroads towards order two. 
The investigator asked Shop Direct for copies of calls Mr H said he had with it in 2021 to see 
if he was prevented from making payments over the phone. But it said it had no record of 
these other than one in March 2021. Ive listened to the call from March 2021 and it is 
apparent from this that Mr H was having problems logging on. And at one point the 
representative does say that it couldnt find an account with the account number he gave it.  
So, I accept on balance that Mr H may have been told on occasions that he did not owe anything  perhaps because Shop Direct could not locate his account. 
However even if this was the case Mr Hs online account access was restored two weeks 
before the interest free period ended on order two. And theres no suggestion Mr H didnt 
know when this period ended or how much he needed to pay to clear the order in any event. 
Mr H accepts he received regular paper statements which made this clear every month so it 
wouldnt have been a surprise to him when his online account access was restored. I think 
Shop Direct left Mr H with a reasonable period of time within which he could have made the 
necessary payment using his online account before the end of the interest free period. 
Overall therefore, while I accept its likely Mr H experienced problems making payments 
when he wanted to make them, I dont find Shop Direct treated him unfairly by not agreeing 
to extend the interest free period on order two or by applying interest or late payment 
charges after 30 July 2021. 
I recognise that Mr Hs online account access still hadnt been restored before the end of the 
interest free period on order one. But I dont think this prevented him from making a payment 
towards the order at all. I say this because it appears Mr H made a partial payment of £100 
towards it in March 2021 by an alternative means to his online account.
Given Mr H knew from his paper statements what he had to pay to clear this order in full, 
knew when the interest free period ended, and had in fact been able to make a partial 
payment towards it by alternative means, Im not entirely persuaded the problems he had 
with his online access prevented him from repaying order one in full before the end of the 
interest free period. I accept however that it would have been more inconvenient for him to 
make a payment on the phone given what he has said about his working patterns.
Shop Direct has nevertheless refunded the interest it charged on this order as well as the 
late payment/default fees. 
Looking at matters in the round, it appears on the one hand that Shop Direct perhaps 
neednt have refunded all of the interest and charges on order one. On the other hand Shop 
Direct is not entirely without fault in this complaint and may have provided unclear 
instructions to Mr H about how to register his account again after it dealt with his complaint in 
April 2021, which will no doubt have caused him inconvenience and frustration. Overall, I 
think the steps Shop Direct has taken and the money it has refunded to Mr H has resulted in 
a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
I do not therefore require Shop Direct to do any more than it already has.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above. I do not require Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited trading as Littlewoods to do any more than it already has in respect of Mr Hs 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman