DRN-3668196
The complaint
Miss O complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Miss O applied for a credit card with Vanquis in May 2020. She was accepted and given a 
credit limit of £1,000 which was never increased.
Miss O says that Vanquis shouldnt have provided her with the credit. She says it didnt take 
account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her credit. She 
says Vanquis didnt check properly that it was affordable for her and that she has struggled 
with debt as a result. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Os complaint. He didnt think Vanquis had done anything 
wrong in its lending decisions. 
Miss O disagreed. She added that she was using her overdraft heavily and had lots of other 
debts elsewhere.
As Miss O did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Os complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Vanquis 
acted unfairly and lent to Miss O irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Vanquis needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss O could 
afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Miss Os borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Vanquis has provided a list of the checks it completed when opening Miss Os account. It 
says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Miss O in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Vanquis saw that Miss O had no County Court Judgements 
(CCJs) or recent defaults. It showed that she had about £8,200 in other unsecured lending at 
the time. Miss O told Vanquis that she earned around £16,000, which was around £1,200 
net a month. 
Vanquis also calculated Miss Os living costs and credit commitments on the information it 
had from credit checks and estimates of cost of living from other sources. 
Based on this it said a credit limit of £1,000 appeared affordable and Miss O didnt appear to 
be overindebted.
 
I think that as Miss O already had £8,200 in other outstanding lending that Vanquis ought to 
have found out more about her exact living costs. Its not possible to say exactly what 
Vanquis might have seen at the time, but our investigator spoke with Miss O about her costs. 
In this conversation Miss O gave lower figures than those estimated by Vanquis. So, on the 
basis of that information, our investigator thought that if Vanquis had done checks on Miss 
Os bank statements, or spoken with her, it wouldnt have seen or heard anything concerning 
which might have stopped it providing the credit to her. On balance, I agree with our 
investigator that Vanquis didnt act unfairly by opening the account in these circumstances. 
Following receipt of the investigators view, Miss O reiterated that she was in financial 
trouble at the time she took out the card. She said:
I had bills, an overdraft, credit cards, a dmp [debt management plan]catalogues, 
borrowed heavily from my partner
I asked Miss O to provide a copy of her credit file from before she took out the card with 
Vanquis, which she did. Having reviewed this I can see that she had been in some difficulty 
in the years before May 2020, but that at the time of her application there was nothing of 
particular concern. There is evidence of a default on a credit card in 2018 but this was over 
two years before she applied for the Vanquis card and had been settled by the time of her 
application. Miss O had a loan from a company which could be considered higher cost 
lending, but she had opened this in June 2016 and had met the repayments on time 
throughout the agreement. Other credit accounts were in good order and managed well. 
There was nothing to suggest that Vanquis missed anything in its checks, or that had 
Vanquis done more appropriate checks it would have seen anything which ought reasonably 
have prevented it from lending to Miss O.
So, on balance, I think Vanquis acted fairly by lending to Miss O in these circumstances and 
I dont think Miss O lost out as a result of anything Vanquis did wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Miss Os complaint. It follows that 
Vanquis Bank Limited does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 February 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman