DRN-2657723
The complaint
Mr B says that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) incorrectly recorded a default 
with credit reference agencies which led to his job interview being cancelled.
What happened
In March 2019, Mr B arranged to transfer his current account from NatWest to another bank. 
He had an outstanding overdraft with NatWest. His new bank wasnt willing to take on the 
NatWest overdraft. So, a monthly payment arrangement was agreed between NatWest and 
Mr B. He then made monthly online payments towards the end of each month from his new 
bank account as agreed.
 
In April 2020, Mr Bs new bank contacted him as they were concerned about some unusual 
activity on his debit card. They were concerned that this may indicate a possible fraud. As Mr 
B was unsure, his bank decided to cancel his card and arrange for a new one to be issued.
Mr B contacted NatWest to tell them what was happening as this meant there would be a 
short delay before he could make his next payment. He told them that he would make the 
payment as soon as his new card arrived. As promised, Mr B made the payment early in 
May 2020.
Mr B received an email on 22nd June 2020 telling him that a job interview was cancelled due 
to failing the credit check. So, Mr B completed a personal check of his credit file. The result 
showed that NatWest had recorded missed payments and a default marker in respect of the 
payment arrangement.
Mr B contacted NatWest to find out why they had reported the late payments and default. He 
told them that he was up to date with all payments. NatWest looked into his complaint and 
agreed that they had made an error. They agreed to correct his credit record and offered 
compensation of £75 for the trouble and upset. Mr B was unhappy with the amount offered 
and decided to refer his complaint to this service.
The complaint has been looked at by one of our investigators. He agreed that NatWest had 
made a mistake here and that they should pay compensation to Mr B. But he believed that 
the £75 offered by NatWest wasnt enough. So, he proposed that the compensation amount 
be increased to £150.
 
Mr B did not accept the investigators view so asked for the complaint to be passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I reached a different outcome to that of our investigator. Because of that, I issued a 
provisional decision on 5 February 2021. I explained why I thought that NatWest needed to 
do more than it had. I said that to put things right, NatWest should pay to Mr B compensation 
of £300 in total  this amount includes the £75 already offered.
Both Mr B and NatWest accepted my provisional decision, so the case has been passed 
back to me to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although NatWest have agreed that they made a mistake, I think it is important to 
understand what happened and the impact upon Mr B.
I can see from NatWests file notes that Mr B did contact them in April 2020 to explain the 
problems with his bank card. He wanted to avoid any problems. I think Mr B did the right 
thing here by keeping NatWest informed. As promised, Mr B then paid the delayed amount, 
once he had received his new debit card and as soon as he was able. This was in early May 
2020. I can see this from the statement information that NatWest have provided.
Mr B had been actively seeking a new career opportunity and applying for new roles. He was 
successful in securing an interview for one of these roles. But the interview was cancelled 
because he failed the credit check. I can completely understand how upsetting this would be 
for Mr B. Particularly as this was the day before his interview.
 
We contacted the prospective employer to ask them what information they look for in a credit 
check. They said that should the candidate have an active default or CCJ, the credit check 
would fail. They also said that It starts to become more complex when considering late 
payment markerswe would consider the volume of late payments and when they took 
place. There was no suggestion at all that the existence of a payment arrangement would 
have meant that Mr B failed the credit check.
Mr B completed a personal credit file request on 22nd June 2020 as soon as he heard that 
his interview had been cancelled. I have seen a copy of this search. It is clear that the only 
adverse information recorded related to NatWests error. I havent seen any other obvious 
reason that the credit check would have failed here. So, Im satisfied that its more likely than 
not that the mistake NatWest made with the default was the main factor in Mr Bs interview 
being cancelled.
 
It is unfortunate that Mr B lost, what he believed to be, a good job opportunity. I have to be 
fair and impartial here, so Ive taken into account that there was no guarantee that Mr B 
would have been successful. But hes also lost an important opportunity and he was clearly 
and understandably very upset by this. He has also explained his concern that this may have 
long term effects on his credit history. Particularly if he decides to purchase a property, apply 
for credit or another job application in the future. I can understand his concerns and the 
stress that this would cause. But Mr B and NatWest have confirmed that this has now been 
deleted from his credit file, so this shouldnt have any further impact here.
In reaching my decision, I need to be fair to both parties. I think that NatWest have done the 
right thing by agreeing that they have made a mistake and by trying to put things right here. 
Mr B has confirmed that all adverse information has now been removed from his credit file 
by NatWest. It is also right they have corrected this promptly so not to cause further distress 
or problems. 
Discovering that a lender has registered adverse information on your credit file is very 
stressful and worrying. More so when the information is inaccurate or registered by mistake. 
But, losing out on a potential job opportunity as a direct consequence also needs to be 
acknowledged. So, I think its fair that NatWest should increase the amount of compensation 
to be paid to Mr B. While our investigator suggested the compensation should be increased to £150 (in total), I feel that a fairer amount here to recognise the impact of this mistake 
would be £300.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision. That means that I 
have no reason to depart from the findings I reached in this. So, my decision remains the 
same.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint.
I require National Westminster Bank Plc to pay to Mr B compensation of £300 in total  this 
amount includes the £75 already offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2021.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman