DRN-4300662
The complaint
Mr K and Mrs R are unhappy with the service they received from Great Lakes Insurance SE 
and the settlement of a claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K and Mrs R have an annual travel insurance policy. Mr K travelled to a long-haul 
destination and had an accident. He sustained a fracture to his hip. Due to the location of the 
fracture, it was treated non-operatively. Mr K was told to rest and take painkillers and anti-
DVT medication. He was going to need crutches for at least 4 weeks. 
Mr K didnt return home on his original flight, which was booked for very shortly after his 
release from hospital. He didnt return home until around 4 weeks later. Great Lakes didnt 
settle the claim in full as they thought Mr K could have returned home as planned. So, they 
partially settled the claim. Mr K complained but Great Lakes maintained their decision in 
relation to the claim. However, they did offer a total of £175 compensation for issues with the 
customer service Mr K and Mrs R received. Unhappy, they complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld the complaint. She didnt think 
Great Lakes had given Mr K reasonable guidance whilst he was abroad and that hed not 
received support whilst he was alone abroad. She thought Great Lakes should pay a total of 
£200 compensation, including the compensation offered already. 
Mr K accepted the investigators recommendation. Great Lakes asked an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. They said the reasoning behind their decision was clearly laid out.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Great Lakes has a responsibility to 
handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
Im upholding this complaint because: 
I dont agree that the reasoning behind Great Lakes decision that Mr K could have 
returned home on his original flight is clearly laid out. 
Great Lakes said that there was no information which made them think there were 
contraindications for Mr K to fly home as his pain was being controlled, the treatment 
was non-operative, he was on crutches and permitted to bear weight on the leg. But 
the medical report from when Mr K was discharged also refers to bed rest and Mr K 
taking anti Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) medication. And theres no reference in the 
medical report about whether Mr K was fit to fly or what assistance he may have 
needed. So, I think its reasonable to conclude that some further investigation was 
needed into his pain levels, the impact of the DVT medication and what assistance 
he might need to get home safely and comfortably. The medical report did not say 
Mr K was fit to fly. So, I dont think its reasonable to conclude Mr K was well enough 
to have returned home on his original flight. 
In any event, Mr K had sustained an injury which was causing him a lot of pain. He 
was alone and on crutches facing a long journey home. He was experiencing a lot of 
pain and needed assistance with day-to-day tasks. I think thats plausible given the 
nature of his injury. So, I dont think its reasonable to conclude he could have 
travelled home on his original flight without assistance so soon after his accident. 
Mr K wasnt able to get a fit to fly certificate until around four weeks after he was 
originally due to go home. I dont think Mr K was given much meaningful assistance 
during this time, despite him struggling with his mobility and with getting the medical 
information from the hospital where hed got treatment. I also dont think it was clear 
to Mr K what the next steps were and what the medical report needed to cover. 
Great Lakes should have been more proactive and, for example, taken steps to 
arrange a fit to fly assessment themselves or appoint a local agent to take further 
steps, such as arranging for Mr K to be seen by a doctor or attending the hospital to 
get the medical report Great Lakes needed. That may have also reduced the length 
of time Mr K had to stay abroad and the costs he incurred. 
Taking all of the above into account I think its fair and reasonable Great Lakes 
should cover Mr Ks additional expenses between the time he was injured and his 
actual return home. I dont think theyve demonstrated that Mr K was well enough to 
catch his original flight and their lack of meaningful assistance meant it took a long 
time to get a fit to fly certificate so he could book a new flight. Once the fit to fly 
certificate was received Mr K quickly booked a return flight home.   
Great Lakes didnt comment further on the investigators findings about the customer 
service Mr K received or the compensation she recommended. They acknowledged 
in their final response letter that there were delays and Mr K didnt receive the level of 
service he should have done. Mr K accepted the investigators findings. I think the 
total of £200 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused in the 
circumstances of this case. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes needs to put things right by paying Mr K and Mrs R: 
The additional expenses between the date of his injury and the date of his actual 
return home. This is subject to the remaining policy terms and limits. 
8% simple interest per annum from the date the claim was originally settled to the 
date of actual settlement. If Great Lakes considers that its required by HM Revenue 
& Customs to deduct income tax from that interest it should tell Mr K and Mrs R how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr K and Mrs R a tax deduction certificate if 
they ask for one so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
£200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the impact of poor 
service at a time when Mr K was unwell. My final decision
Im upholding Mr K and Mrs Rs complaint about Great Lakes Insurance SE and direct them 
to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman