DRN-2965196
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Nutmeg Saving and Investment Limited didnt put some money she 
added to her investment in her ISA. 
What happened
Mrs M opened her ISA with Nutmeg in 2016. In the 2017 to 2018 tax year, she didnt add 
any money to the investment. So  under Nutmegs terms and conditions  its ISA status 
lapsed for the 2018 to 2019 tax year. 
Just before the end of the 2018 to 2019 tax year, Mrs M added £20,000 to the investment. 
As the ISA status had lapsed, Nutmeg put the money in a general investment account linked 
to the investment. That meant the money wasnt in an ISA, and Mrs M missed her chance to 
use her 2018 to 2019 tax year ISA allowance. 
Mrs M didnt realise this had happened until September 2020, when she transferred her ISA 
to a new provider. Nutmeg explained what had happened, but Mrs M didnt feel it was fair. 
She hadnt known the ISA would lapse like it did. And she felt it had been clear she was 
trying to use her ISA allowance in 2019, so Nutmeg should honour that intention. 
Nutmeg responded to the complaint by explaining the specific terms of the investment that 
covered what had happened. They felt theyd applied these fairly to Mrs M, but said theyd 
take on board her comments about spotting what shed intended to do in 2019. 
Mrs M brought the complaint to us. Our investigator was satisfied Nutmeg had handled the 
account in line with its terms and conditions. And he didnt feel Nutmeg needed to do 
anything else to put the matter right. 
Nutmeg dont look to have responded to that view  which Ive taken to mean they have 
nothing further to add. But Mrs M has said she still feels shes been treated unreasonably, 
and Nutmeg need to do more to put things right. So the complaint has come to me for a 
review, and a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I can appreciate Mrs Ms surprise 
when she came to transfer her ISA in 2020. But theres no mistake by Nutmeg in whats 
happened, and I dont feel they needed to do more to question Mrs Ms actions in 2019. 
As Nutmeg and our investigator noted, the lapsing of the ISA status is a feature of the terms 
and conditions of Mrs Ms investment. Looking at the facts of the case, the conditions for it 
lapsing have been met  Mrs M didnt add anything to the ISA in the 2017 to 2018 tax year. 
So it was reasonable that when Mrs M put the money in to the investment in 2019, Nutmeg 
didnt put it in to the ISA. 
But I accept it was probably Mrs Ms intention for the money to go into the ISA. The amount 
she added matched what the ISA limit was, and the payment was made before the tax year 
ended. But I also accept Nutmegs position on this  they wouldnt have known if Mrs M had 
put money into another ISA with another provider, which would prevent her from opening a 
new ISA with them. 
So even though the circumstances pointed to Mrs M trying to add money to her ISA, Nutmeg 
shouldnt be expected to have assumed that was what they should do. Theyd have needed 
a specific instruction to open a new ISA  and confirmation Mrs M hadnt contributed to 
another ISA that tax year  before doing that. 
I can appreciate Mrs M didnt know she needed to open a new ISA in 2019. As far as she 
was aware, she had one. And she doesnt seem to have realised it had lapsed, or that her 
investment had a non-ISA part to it where the money would go instead. While Nutmeg could 
have done more to highlight the ISA had lapsed  particularly when it happened in 2018  I 
find its reasonable for them to have relied on their terms and conditions to have already 
made this clear to their customers, generally. 
As such, I cant see Nutmeg have made a mistake here, even though their service hasnt 
worked for Mrs M in the way she expected it to. Theyve handled the investment in line with 
their terms and conditions. They could rely on those terms to be clear enough about what 
would happen if there were no contributions to the ISA for a whole tax year. And they didnt 
have all the details that would have been needed in 2019 to assume Mrs M wanted to  or 
could  open a new ISA at that point. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman