DRN-3148150
The complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of a car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement 
financed by RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI).
  
What happened
In July 2018 Mr P acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement.  
Mr P experienced a number of problems with the chrome trim, application of the paint 
treatment and the tow bar in 2018 and 2019. Mr P made complaints about these issues, and 
some rectification work was completed. 
When Mr P took the vehicle to the dealership for it to be serviced in July 2019, he let them 
know that he was experiencing issues with a whistling and a tinny noise from the engine, 
and a mass air flow sensor was replaced. The tow bar was also replaced due to corrosion. 
In August 2019 Mr P contacted the dealership as the noise was still present. The car was 
test driven by a technician, who acknowledged the noise, and recommended further 
investigation. 
In September 2019 the car was at the dealership for two weeks for investigation, where 
missing grommets in the bulk head and steering column were replaced. Mr P collected the 
car and let the dealership know that the noise was still evident. 
In November 2019 a manager and a technician from the dealership took Mr Ps car for a test 
drive and acknowledged the tinny noise from the engine. They took a vehicle of the same 
make and model as Mr Ps for a test drive as well and noted that the noise was not present 
in the second vehicle. 
In December 2019 four injectors and the turbo were replaced. The dealership informed Mr P 
that this had resolved the whistling noise, but the tinny sound from the engine was still 
apparent. 
A technical assessment was completed in January 2020. A pair of chassis ears were used in 
an attempt to pin point where on the car the noise was coming from. This identified the 
vacuum pump as the possible source of the noise, and this was replaced in January 2020. 
The tinny noise was not resolved by this work, and so a specialist manufacturer factory 
engineer examined the vehicle in February 2020. They concluded that the noise from the 
engine was normal, within tolerance and that there was no fault with the car. 
Mr P complained to RCI in May 2020. He asked to reject the vehicle, as he said the whistle 
and the tinny noise were still apparent from the engine, and worse than they were prior to 
the work being carried out. 
RCI sent Mr P their final response to his complaint in June 2020. They said the replacement 
of parts formed part of exploratory measures and was not an admission of the vehicle being 
of unsatisfactory quality. They said the factory engineer had found that the noise was within 
tolerance and a normal occurrence. They didnt agree that the vehicle was of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Mr P, and they didnt uphold his complaint. 
Mr P complained to RCI in July 2020 that he was unable to use the service plan hed 
purchased with the vehicle, because neither of his local dealerships would take the car due 
to the ongoing issues. RCI told Mr P that he could take his car to any manufacturer 
dealership for the service. 
Unhappy with this, Mr P brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr P. He thought that the previous repair work to the vehicle showed there was a 
fault, and that this fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to 
Mr P. As repairs had failed, he thought that Mr P should be allowed his final right to reject 
the vehicle. 
RCI didnt agree. They said the parts were replaced in the interest of consumer satisfaction, 
and not in admission of a fault. They said there was no fault with the vehicle, as detailed by 
the factory engineer, and so no repairs had failed. They didnt agree that Mr P was able to 
reject the car and suggested that an independent report might be useful. 
Our investigator considered the points made by RCI. He thought that the dealership 
employees that had test driven the vehicle were sufficiently qualified and had diagnosed a 
fault with the car which required work to rectify it. He was satisfied that this work was 
authorised by the manufacturer and was required to bring the car back to a satisfactory 
condition. So, as the repairs had failed, he thought Mr P should be allowed his final right to 
reject the car, and no further inspection was required. 
RCI said that the dealership had replaced parts because they believed the car had a fault, 
but when the factory engineer attended this was shown not to be the case. They commented 
that the noise could only be heard when it was induced meaning the car had to be driven in 
an unnatural way for the noise to be apparent. They suggested an independent report be 
obtained to settle the complaint. 
Our investigator considered RCIs comments but didnt change his view. He didnt think the 
dealership would have carried out extensive repairs to the vehicle, having completed a test 
drive in it, if the noise could only be heard when it was induced. He was satisfied that the car 
was of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P and so no further inspection was 
required. 
Mr P contacted the dealership in early 2021 to let them know that the tow bar and chrome 
trims had corroded again, and the paint treatment didnt appear to be performing as it 
should. The dealership told Mr P that as these items had been replaced previously, and no 
issues had been reported with other vehicles, they wouldnt carry out any further work.  
Our investigator considered the further damage to Mr Ps car. He didnt think there was any 
evidence that Mr P had used anything other than recommended products to clean the car, 
and that the trims and tow bar shouldnt have corroded as they had. He was satisfied that 
there were faults to the paint treatment, chrome trims and tow bar, and that these made the 
car of unsatisfactory quality, so Mr P should be entitled to his final right to reject the vehicle. 
RCI responded to say that they felt the expert engineer findings were being ignored and 
suggested an independent inspection to resolve the complaint. Mr P agreed to have an independent inspection completed, but ultimately no agreement 
could be reached between Mr P and RCI on the location and requirements of the inspection, 
and so this wasnt completed. 
RCI made an offer to settle the complaint in October 2021. They offered to collect the vehicle 
at no cost to Mr P, end the finance agreement with nothing further to pay, and refund Mr Ps 
deposit. 
Mr P rejected this offer, he would like the vehicle to be collected at no cost to him, the 
agreement to be terminated, his credit file updated to reflect this and compensation of 
£8030.79 to reflect the difference in his finance settlement figure, and what he thinks RCI will 
obtain when selling the vehicle. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2021 recommending that it 
was upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a regulated hire purchase agreement  so we can 
consider a complaint relating to it. RCI as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car, will include 
things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired new with a cash price of around £35,000. With this in mind, I 
think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be higher 
than a cheaper, higher mileage, vehicle and that the vehicle could be used free from even 
minor defects, for a considerable period of time. 
RCI have relied on an inspection undertaken by an engineer from the manufacturers factory, 
which concludes that the noise is a normal engine noise. They also say it is only apparent 
when it is induced, specifically when the throttle is pulsed. 
Ive asked for a copy of the findings from this inspection, but this has not been provided. 
Mr Ps car was inspected on a number of occasions by qualified staff at the dealership. Both 
the whistling and the tinny noise were acknowledged, and a number of repairs have been 
attempted to try and resolve the issue. 
Im not discounting the findings of the factory engineer. But without the evidence on the tests 
undertaken and their results, its difficult to see how a conclusion was drawn that the noise 
from the engine was within tolerance for this car. 
I think its unlikely that Mr P would have continued to complain about a noise that couldnt be 
heard over the usual sound of the engine, or that experienced engineers from the dealership 
would carry out extensive, costly repairs in order to fix a noise that they had only heard by 
inducing it when test driving the car. Based on the evidence, Im satisfied that there is a noise coming from the engine of Mr Ps 
car, and that substantial repairs have not remedied this noise. I think a reasonable person 
would expect a car of this age and mileage to be free from even minor defects, so Im 
satisfied that the noise means the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the time it was 
supplied to Mr P. 
There are a number of other issues that have been identified with the vehicle, including 
chrome trims that have corroded and been repaired on two occasions, a corroded tow bar 
which has been replaced, and problems with the paint treatment which has been re-done on 
three occasions. Some of these faults are ongoing and have not been remedied. 
I dont think a reasonable person would expect these items to deteriorate in such a short 
period of time and would expect the car to be free from even minor defects for a 
considerable period of time. So, Im satisfied that these faults mean the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality at the time it was supplied to Mr P. 
I should point out to RCI that this means even if I took a different view of the noise issue and 
agreed with them that the later engineer didnt find a fault, I would still uphold the complaint 
based on the other issues.
Having made that finding, I need to decide what, if anything, RCI should do to put things 
right. 
The Consumer Rights Act sets out the remedies available where goods are considered not 
to be of satisfactory quality and one of the remedies is to allow an opportunity to repair the 
goods. That repair should be done in a reasonable time, and without significant 
inconvenience to the consumer.  
Mr P has taken his vehicle for investigation and repair on a number of occasions, and the 
fault with the noise has not been rectified. 
All things considered, I think Mr P should be allowed his final right to reject the car. This 
means that the car is collected from Mr P, the finance agreement is brought to an end, and 
Mr P has his £5,689.66 deposit refunded (plus interest). 
RCI have offered to collect the car from Mr P and refund his deposit, but they dont think 
interest is payable, because the case has been protracted due to them being unable to 
arrange for an independent inspection in line with Mr Ps conditions. 
I dont agree that a further inspection is required. I think the evidence already obtained is 
sufficient to say that the vehicle was of unsatisfactory quality, and Mr P should have been 
allowed his final right to reject the car prior to making a complaint. So, Im satisfied that 
interest is appropriate in these circumstances. 
Mr P has said hell accept £8030.79 in order to settle the complaint, as this is the difference 
between the current settlement figure for his agreement, and the potential sale cost of his 
car. He doesnt think RCI should profit from the return and sale of his car. 
RCI remain the owners of the vehicle under the hire purchase agreement until all payments 
have been made by Mr P. So, Im satisfied that they are entitled to the return of the vehicle 
and to deal with it as they see fit. Mr P is not entitled to any profit the car may make if resold. 
Similarly, hes not liable for any deficit if the car should be sold at a loss. Im satisfied that the return of the vehicle and a refund of Mr Ps deposit is appropriate in the 
circumstances. 
The agreement and any adverse information should be removed from Mr Ps credit file. 
Mr P has been kept mobile in a courtesy car throughout the investigation and repairs, and 
has been able to drive the vehicle even though the fault is present. So, RCI are able to retain 
the monthly payments already made by Mr P, representing fair usage of the vehicle. 
Mr P has suffered distress and inconvenience in having to take his car back to the 
dealership on numerous occasions and continuing to drive the car with the fault present. RCI 
should pay Mr P £300 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused. 
RCI accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr P responded to my provisional decision. He said it left him out of pocket, having been left 
with a vehicle he didnt enjoy for three years. Mr P said hed accept either the return of his 
deposit, plus £300 compensation being deducted from his outstanding finance, leaving him 
able to end the finance himself to sell or trade in the car, or hell accept the difference 
between the outstanding finance and the approximate current value of the car, which he 
calculates as £8,030.79, plus the return of the vehicle as outlined in my provisional decision 
and £300 compensation. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any new arguments, or sent me new information to consider, in 
respect of the satisfactory quality of the vehicle, for the same reasoning that I set out in my 
provisional decision, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. 
Ive thought about Mr Ps submissions in respect of how RCI should put things right. As I 
outlined in my provisional decision, RCI remain the owners of the vehicle under the finance 
agreement and are entitled to deal with it as they see fit. Mr P is not entitled to any profit the 
car may make. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this 
complaint, and it allows for an opportunity to repair the car or gives the final right to rejection, 
where the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. Its that final right to 
rejection that Mr P is now entitled to, and for these reasons, I remain satisfied that rejection 
of the vehicle and the return of Mr Ps deposit is appropriate in the circumstances.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require RCI Financial Services Limited 
to:
End the finance agreement and collect the car at no further cost to Mr P
Refund Mr Ps deposit of £5,689.66 plus 8% simple interest calculated from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.  
Pay Mr P £300 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove the finance agreement from Mr Ps credit file. If RCI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest part of my award, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P 
a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman