DRN-4137161
The complaint
Miss W complains that Wise Payments Limited (Wise) wont refund over £10,000 she lost 
to an investment scam.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons. 
It isnt in dispute that Miss W has fallen victim to a scam here, nor that she authorised 
the disputed payments she made to her Binance wallet from her Wise account 
(where her funds were subsequently transferred on to the scammers from her crypto 
wallet). The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security 
credentials provided by Wise, and the starting position is that banks ought to follow 
the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be made 
as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Wise should have done more to prevent Miss W 
from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank should 
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular 
transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I appreciate that overall, Miss W has lost over £10,000 which is a significant amount 
of money. But this amount wasnt paid in one large or out of character transaction. It 
was spread over four separate smaller increments which, in my judgment, would not 
have appeared particularly unusual, such that they ought to have been regarded as 
suspicious or indicating that she might have been at risk of financial harm. The 
account had also been newly opened, so there wasnt any previous transaction data 
for Wise to compare the disputed payments against to determine if they were out of 
character. 
I also acknowledge that two payments were made to Binance on the same day (13 
September 2022). But cumulatively, this still didnt total more than £4,000 so I dont 
think this would have appeared overly unusual. And I dont consider these two 
payments alone are enough to amount to a suspicious sequence of payments 
either. And by the time Miss W came to make the largest payment of £5,000, 
Binance was already an established payee that she had paid similar amounts to 
previously. So, Im not persuaded there were any significant indications of financial 
harm that Wise ought reasonably to have picked up on here. 
So, having considered the payments Miss W made, Im not persuaded there was 
anything that ought reasonably to have triggered Wise fraud monitoring systems, or 
that would have indicated she was in the process of being scammed.
Ive also considered whether Wise couldve done more to recover the payments after 
Miss W reported the scam. Wise has acknowledged that it didnt raise a chargeback 
dispute when the scam was first reported and has offered £75 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the delay. But a chargeback claim would not 
have had any reasonable prospect of succeeding in this instance as Miss W received 
the asset she paid for (i.e. the cryptocurrency). So, it doesnt seem any earlier action 
Wise couldve taken wouldve made any difference here. Im therefore satisfied its 
£75 offer of compensation is fair.
My final decision
Wise Payments Limited has made an offer to pay £75 compensation. Im satisfied this offer 
is fair and reasonable and my final decision is that Wise should pay this compensation within 
28 days of receiving Miss Ws acceptance of this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman