DRN-4389043
The complaint
Mr T complains that Revolut Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In September 2022, Mr T came across an advert for an investment company Ill refer to as 
M. The advert claimed M was a worldwide digital asset investing organization and 
promised returns from investing in cryptocurrency which were better than those offered by 
the bank. Mr T completed an online contact form and was contacted by someone claiming to 
be a broker. Mr T didnt want to be pressured into investing, but he decided to go ahead as 
he was hoping hed be able to pay off his mortgage early, and the broker told him hed see a 
steady growth from his investment.
Mr T told to open an account with Revolut and to download AnyDesk remote software to his 
device so the broker could take over his laptop to show him the trading platform. The broker 
told him to first purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and 
then load it onto an online wallet. Between 16 August 2022 and 1 October 2022, he made 17 
payments to two cryptocurrency exchange companies totalling £59,491.59 using a Visa debit 
card connected to his Revolut account.
When Mr T tried to make a withdrawal, he was told he would have to pay Capital Gains Tax 
in the sum of £9,600, which would eventually be refunded. The broker said he could pay it in 
three instalments, but he ultimately refused to make the payment and eventually realised 
hed been scammed.
Mr T complained to Revolut with the assistance of a representative who argued that Revolut 
had failed to intervene on 17 separate occasions and in doing so it had failed to protect Mr T 
from fraud. His representative said Revolut failed to question why Mr T was transferring such 
large sums of money into a recently opened account and then transferring it out again. They 
said the activity was unusual as he began sending high-value payments in quick succession 
to a new payee and the fact it was a new account was a cause for concern, as scammers 
often instruct people to open Revolut accounts.
They said it should have asked probing questions such as why he was making the 
payments, how he found out about the investment opportunity, whether hed checked the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website, whether hed been promised unrealistic 
returns, whether hed received any withdrawals and whether hed been pressured to make 
the payment. And with the information it should have realized Mr T was likely falling victim to 
an elaborate investment scam. 
Revolut refused to refund any of the money Mr T had lost and explained it didnt raise a 
chargeback request because he didnt submit a detailed description of the claim.
Mr T wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said Revolut didnt properly 
investigate his claim and he authorised the payments in the belief the investment was 
genuine, having received no effective warning or 'pop-up warnings'. He said that if he had 
any inclination that the investment was a scam, he wouldnt have gone through with the 
payments.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr T hadnt provided 
enough evidence that the investment was a scam, apart from his testimony. She asked Mr T 
to provide evidence of communication with the scammers such as emails, chats, messages, 
withdrawal request, cryptocurrency wallet statements, or evidence of trading accounts and 
without such evidence she was unable to say Revolt had treated Mr T unfairly.
Mr T has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. Hes explained he was 
told hed made £30,000 profit but he was asked to pay Capital Gains Tax, which he was 
unable to pay. He said Revolut has refunded millions to its customers and the scam was 
very sophisticated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know he feels strongly about this complaint, and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Ive thought about whether Revolut could have done more to recover Mr Ts payments when 
he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it will 
ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved 
between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme 
 so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in such cases 
is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to determine whether 
the regulated card issuer (i.e. Revolut) acted fairly and reasonably when presenting (or 
choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr T).
Mr Ts own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments. Its most likely that the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Ts payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Revoluts decision not to raise 
a chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies was fair.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive considered the available evidence and I agree with our investigator that Mr T hasnt 
shown he was the victim of a scam. I note there is information online suggesting M was 
operating a scam and that his description of having been asked to download remote access software and to pay undisclosed fees to withdraw funds is consistent with what we would 
expect when someone has been scammed. But our investigator made it clear that shed 
need evidence of communication with the scammers such as emails, chats, or WhatsApp 
messages. She also asked for evidence of Mr Ts loss, which might include screenshots of 
the scam trading platform, screenshots of the cryptocurrency wallet showing an onward 
payment to the scammers wallet, or withdrawal requests or other interactions relating to the 
unsuccessful withdrawal requests, but Mr T hasnt produced this.
I have seen one email to Mr T from M, which I accept shows he had dealings with M. But I 
agree with our investigator this isnt sufficient evidence that he was a victim of a particular 
scam. Mr T has said he lost £59,491 to a scam, but the evidence hes produced doesnt 
show he transferred this amount of money from his own cryptocurrency account to a 
scammers wallet or that he was unable to withdraw available funds on request. Without this 
evidence, Im not satisfied, on balance, that he has shown he was victim to a particular 
scam. Therefore, I cant fairly ask Revolut to do anything further to resolve this complaint.
Overall, Im satisfied Revolut took the correct steps prior to the funds being released  as 
well as the steps it took after being notified of the potential fraud. Im sorry to hear Mr T has 
lost money and the effect this has had on him. But for the reasons Ive explained, I dont 
think Revolut is to blame for this and so I cant fairly tell it to do anything further to resolve 
this complaint.
My final decision
Mr final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman