DRN-3816886
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice Fairstone Wealth Management Limited (Fairstone) gave 
him to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and he believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Mr B to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, I will refer to the representatives comments as being Mr Bs.
At the time of the events Mr B complained about Fairstone was trading under a different 
name. But, as it is responsible for responding to the complaint using its current name I will 
only refer to Fairstone within this decision. 
What happened
In 2010 Mr B met with Fairstone to discuss his financial planning needs. It looked into his 
pension provision and noted that Mr B was a deferred member of two former employers 
pension schemes. It gathered information about those pensions including cash equivalent 
transfer values (CETVs). It obtained a transfer value analysis (TVAS) report and conducted 
a fact-find and an assessment of Mr Bs attitude to risk. It also gave him a key facts 
document and illustration from a named personal pension provider, showing what his 
pension could be worth if he transferred some of his pension benefits into the named 
pension.
Amongst other things Fairstone noted that Mr B was 31 (soon to turn 32), married with 
dependent children. He was employed with salary, bonus and benefits worth over £250,000 
a year. He was hoping to buy a house soon but had no other assets. He was a member of 
his current employers money purchase pension scheme. His pension from his former 
employers DB scheme had a CETV of £144,500. That would pay him a pension of £12,155 
a year at the schemes retirement age of 62 if he didnt take any tax free cash (TFC). 
Alternatively, if he took TFC of £56,551 the DB scheme would pay him a yearly pension of 
£8,483. The growth rates required (the critical yields) to match those benefits were 3.8% and 
3.4% each year respectively. Fairstone said the critical yields, should Mr B retire at age 55 
were 3% and 2.5%. Another of Mr Bs pensions from a different employers money purchase 
scheme had a CETV of around £4,574. Mr Bs risk appetite was between balanced and 
adventurous.
Fairstone gave Mr B a suitability report in which it recommended that Mr B should transfer 
the benefits from the two pensions referred to above into a named personal pension. It said 
the main benefits of doing so were, amongst others:
The CETV was generous and the critical yield extremely favourable
Investment flexibility 
The TFC position could be significantly improved dependent on the fund performance
Greater control of the funds
Retirement flexibility  giving him other options of accessing his funds other than a 
fixed income.
Mr B accepted Fairstones recommendation. The following month Fairstone wrote to Mr B. It 
said that following their latest meeting Mr B had decided that in the grand scheme of things 
he didnt think the pension funds would be a major part of his overall estate. As a result 
Mr B wanted to take a more aggressive investment strategy, with the aim of achieving 
greater longer term results. So he opted to change the funds he was investing in, in line with 
that strategy. 
In January 2011 the named pension provider confirmed it had received the pension funds 
and set up Mr Bs personal pension.
In 2021 Mr B complained to Fairstone. He didnt complain about the transfer of his money 
purchase scheme money and limited his comments to Fairstones advice to transfer his DB 
scheme benefits. Amongst other things he said Fairstones advice was: negligent; in breach 
of the regulators rules and guidance; unsuitable for him; and it wasnt in his best interests. 
Mr B added that Fairstone focused on the merits of a transfer while ignoring the risks. 
Fairstone had said the key factor was the critical yield and this ignored the other key points. 
It fabricated objectives which could only be met by transferring. Mr B was too young to make 
a transfer decision and would be unlikely to be able to join another DB scheme. 
Fairstone replied. It didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. In brief it said Mr B was willing to take 
some moderate risks with his funds in the hope of good returns. It said the critical yield 
required to match the deferred scheme benefits was in keeping with Mr Bs risk profile. But 
the critical yield wasnt the only factor in regards to the transfer. In particular, flexibility as to 
how to access his funds was important to Mr B. Fairstone said it took reasonable steps to 
ensure its recommendation was suitable for Mr B.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She thought 
Fairstone's advice was suitable for Mr B. So she didnt recommend it take any further action.
Mr B didnt agree with our investigators assessment of the complaint. Amongst other things 
he said Fairstones advice was too restricted and tailored to the objectives rather than 
providing a balanced view of all of Mr Bs options. It failed to stress the risks and 
disadvantages and its advice wasnt in line with the regulators guidance. The named 
personal pension didnt provide a spouse or dependents pension or other guaranteed 
benefits. Fairstone didnt consider the full range of options open to Mr B.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In bringing this complaint and in responding to it, Mr B and Fairstone have raised a number 
of detailed points. I've considered everything on file. But in this decision I dont intend to 
address each and every issue raised. Instead I will focus on what I see as being the key 
points at the heart of the complaint and the reasons for my decision.
Also, as indicated above, Fairstone recommended the transfer of two pension pots. But Mr B 
hasn't complained about the transfer of the sum from his former employers money purchase 
scheme. So I haven't commented on the merits of that here. In looking at the transfer of the DB scheme benefits Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. This includes the Principles for 
Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS). And where the 
evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened based on the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Fairstones actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided not to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons our investigator gave.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.16 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Fairstone 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that it was in Mr Bs 
best interests. 
Financial viability 
Fairstone advised Mr B during the period when this Service was publishing 'discount rates' 
on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer 
was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving 
advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates 
would have been considered reasonably achievable at the time Fairstone gave its advice. 
The critical yield required to match Mr Bs benefits at age 62 was 3.8% if he took a full 
pension and 3.4% if he took TFC and a reduced pension. The relevant discount rate closest 
to when the advice was given which I can refer to was published by this Service for the 
period before 1 October 2017, and was 6.9% per year for 30 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 9%, the middle projection 
rate 7%, and the lower projection rate 5% a year.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Bs 
medium-adventurous attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. There would be little 
point in Mr B giving up the guarantees available to him through his DB scheme only to 
achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the scheme. But here the relevant critical 
yields were 3.8% and 3.4%, These are substantially below the regulators projected mid-
level growth rate of 7% and the discount rate of 6.9%. So I think Mr B was likely to receive benefits of a significantly higher overall value than the DB scheme at retirement as a result 
of investing in line with his attitude to risk.
Ill add that critical yields havent been my only consideration here. I've also noted that the 
TVAS Fairstone obtained compared what Mr B was likely to receive from both his existing 
DB scheme and also his personal pension at age 62. And I've produced a table below to 
summarise those estimated benefits:
Existing scheme Personal pension 
Full pension 
without TFC£12,155 £35,577
TFC £56,581 £235,424
Reduced pension 
after taking TFC£8,483 £26,668
The above table demonstrates that the projected benefits from the named personal pension 
weren't just superior to the existing scheme but were almost treble the yearly pension figures 
and over quadruple the sum for TFC. And in terms of retirement provision those are huge 
differences. Further, as I go on to explain below, while there were some flaws in Fairstones 
advice, I think the potential gains in income outweighed the gaps in the advice process. 
With this in mind, I dont think the recommendation to transfer out of the DB scheme was 
unsuitable for Mr B.
Flexibility and control
Fairstone said that by transferring Mr B gained flexibility and control of both the manner in 
which his funds were invested and also the way in which he could access those at 
retirement. But, while I don't doubt that those would have seemed attractive features to Mr B, 
I'm not persuaded that he actually required that flexibility of access to his funds at the time of 
Fairstones advice.
Mr B was a month short of his 32nd birthday when he signed the forms to go ahead with the 
transfer. So he was still 30 years from the DB schemes normal retirement age and 23 years 
from when he could first access his pension funds  at age 55. So there was certainly no 
urgent need for him to make any decision about his funds. And he could have left those 
untouched, in an almost entirely risk free environment, and made any decision about 
transferring at a later date, when he was nearer to retirement age, if he still wanted to 
consider transferring at that point.
That said I'm aware that at the time of Fairstones advice Mr B was himself a financial 
services professional. So its quite likely that he might have had a better understanding of 
the volatilities and potential rewards of the financial markets than most. And so the 
opportunity to have flexible control of his pension fund investments might have seemed 
important to him. But I note that there isn't anything on the file that Fairstones presented to 
us, which showed the extent of his knowledge and experience with investments. Similarly, 
there's little on the file that I've seen, save for a warning about a loss of guaranteed benefits, 
which demonstrates Mr Bs understanding of the degree to which he was putting his pension 
funds at risk in order to gain flexibility of investments or access. And I do find that the lack of 
detailed risk warnings in Fairstones suitability report indicates its advice wasnt as thorough 
as it should have been. However, having seen the manner in which Mr B answered the attitude to risk questions, I 
think Fairstones assessment of him as a balanced to adventurous investor was reasonable. 
And I note that, before the transfer was complete Mr B had already instigated a change to 
the funds to be invested in, which would indicate that he was interested in the opportunity to 
have more control and flexibility over how his pension was invested. 
Ive noted Mr Bs point that, in order to have flexibility and control of investments he didnt 
need to transfer his DB scheme funds. He could have left those where they were and 
instead made other investments which he could control flexibly. But I note that, apart from 
the contributions he was making to his current employers money purchase pension scheme, 
and the other funds he transferred, which amounted to less than £5,000, Mr B had no other 
assets to invest. In contrast his DB scheme was worth £144,500. And given the significant 
predicted returns from investing in the personal pension, and the additional flexible 
advantages that transferring gave him, I think recommending he do so was in his best 
interests.
Death benefits
Mr Bs said that Fairstone didnt point out the other guaranteed benefits he would be giving 
up such as a spouse or dependents benefits on his death. He said Fairstone almost entirely 
ignored those.
I agree that Fairstone could certainly have done more to point out the value of these benefits 
and to contrast those with what was available from the personal pension. But I don't think it 
would be fair to say that Fairstone ignored those. It did say that his DB scheme would pay a 
spouse and dependents benefit. It also pointed out that, at that time, the remaining sums in 
his personal pension available after his death would have to be paid out as a pension, rather 
than in a lump sum. And I note there was more information about this dependents pension 
in the key facts material that the named personal pension provider produced. Although, as 
I've said above, I do think Fairstone could have gone into more detail to make certain that 
Mr B had a full understanding of the guaranteed benefits he was giving up.
However, a pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And in this 
instance Mr B had the opportunity to invest in funds to potentially greatly enhance the sums 
available to him in retirement and to leave any residual funds for the benefit of his family, 
which at that time were expected to be paid as a pension rather than a lump sum. So, while I 
think that Fairstone could have done more to explain the position. I don't think that means 
that its advice was unsuitable. 
Summary
There were undoubtedly areas where Fairstone could have improved its advice. It certainly 
could have set out in more detail what the potential risks and disadvantages were for Mr B in 
making the transfer. But, from the information available to it at the time, a transfer would 
most likely  although not guaranteed  put Mr B into a far more advantageous position in 
terms of retirement income than by remaining in the DB scheme. So, I think Fairstones 
advice was suitable for Mr B as I think it did enough to clearly demonstrate it was in his best 
interests.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman