DRN-3954802
The complaint
Mr W complains that Nationwide Building Society hasnt amended his credit file. He says 
that this resulted in his mortgage application being rejected.
What happened
In 2021 Mr W fell victim to an impersonation fraud with a personal loan application. 
Nationwide confirmed to him that his credit file wouldnt be affected.
The personal loan marker wasnt removed from Mr Ws credit file. Mr W complained to 
Nationwide. He said the marker was affecting his remortgage application. He asked 
Nationwide to compensate him because hed had to remortgage with a higher rate of interest 
because of the marker.
In response, Nationwide removed the marker in June 2022. It agreed that it had made errors 
which resulted in a delay to the remortgage and paid compensation of £250. It said it needed 
to see evidence that Mr W couldve secured a lower rate of interest on his remortgage in 
March 2022 and that it was solely the personal loan marker which prevented him securing 
the lower rate. Nationwide said that without this evidence it couldnt consider the amount of 
compensation sought by Mr W. 
Mr W wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service. 
Our investigator partially upheld the complaint. He said the only adverse information on Mr 
Ws credit file inn March 2022 was the Nationwide loan and it was likely that this had 
impacted on Mr Ws ability to obtain the lowest mortgage rate. However, the investigator said 
he would need to see evidence to show that Mr W would have been offered the lower 
mortgage rate and that it was the personal loan marker which prevented this from being 
offered. The investigator said he hadnt seen this evidence, so he couldnt hold Nationwide 
responsible for Mr W being turned down for the lower mortgage rate. The investigator looked 
at the compensation paid by Nationwide and said it wasnt enough considering the impact of 
the error. He said Nationwide should pay a further £200 compensation.
Mr W didnt agree. He said he couldnt provide the evidence that Nationwide had requested 
because his credit score was too low (because of the marker) to obtain a decision in 
principle for the lower rate mortgage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has acknowledged that it made an error by not removing the personal loan 
marker from Mr Ws credit file until June 2022. Mr W initially contacted Nationwide in March 
2022 when he first started the remortgage process.
The essence of Mr Ws complaint is that the interest rate available in March 2022 was 2.14% 
over a 5 year term, but this application was rejected and he had to remortgage at the higher 
rate of 2.73%, which he says will cost him £5,989.80 more over the 5 year term.
Ive looked at the information Mr W has provided from his mortgage advisor.
The mortgage advisor told Mr W in an email that there was a 5 year fixed rate available at 
2.14%. However, theres no evidence that Mr W obtained an offer for this mortgage, or that 
he would have obtained an offer but for the marker.
Ive reviewed Mr Ws credit report for the relevant period, and I can see that the personal 
loan was being reported as being in arrears. This is the only adverse information on Mr Ws 
credit file. I agree that this might have impacted on his mortgage application. However, 
theres no evidence that the marker was the sole reason for Mr W being rejected for the 
mortgage.
In order to uphold Mr Ws complaint, I would need to be satisfied that he qualified in principle 
for the lower rate mortgage and that the application was declined because of the personal 
loan marker. I dont have sufficient evidence to show this, so I cant safely conclude that, but 
for the loan marker, Mr W would have been offered the lower rate mortgage. For this reason, 
I dont think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to pay the level of compensation that Mr W is 
seeking.
Ive thought about the impact of Nationwides failure to remove the marker on Mr W. I agree 
with the investigator that the compensation paid by Nationwide wasnt proportionate. A 
further sum of £200 should be paid to Mr W, bringing the total compensation to £450. I think 
this is fair and reasonable to compensate Mr W for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by the loan marker.
Putting things right
To put things right, Nationwide Building Society must pay further compensation of £200,
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Nationwide Building Society should take the 
steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman