DRN-3812401
The complaint
Miss M complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited havent offered her enough in respect of 
her insurance claim.
What happened
Miss M has a contents insurance policy with Tesco, which provides new for old cover. 
Unfortunately, Miss M spilt a glass of wine on her bedroom carpet, so she made a claim on 
her insurance.
Tesco looked into the claim and decided to make a settlement offer. They said they could 
replace the carpet, could pay a cash settlement or offer a voucher for use locally. Miss M 
didnt think the cash settlement was enough, so she complained and then brought her case 
to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter. They felt the settlement offer was fair and so 
didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. Miss M disagreed, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Miss M, but Im not awarding the amount she would like me to. Ill 
explain why.
The best place to start with cases like this is what the policy says. In this instance, Miss Ms 
policy sets out how claims will be settled as follows:
We will pay for the cost of reinstating, repairing or replacing your buildings and/or 
contents which are covered by this policy (including any required re-decoration that forms 
part of a valid claim). We will decide whether to reinstate, repair, replace or pay you the 
cash value. All replaced items will be on a new for old basis. Where we have offered to 
repair or replace any item and you instead request for us to pay a cash value, we will not 
pay you more than the amount it would have cost for us to repair or replace the item.
As it is Miss M who has opted for a cash settlement, the above means that Tesco can limit 
its offer to the amount it would cost them to replace the carpet. Tesco said their contractors 
could replace the bedroom carpet for £532.98 (exclusive of VAT) and on a like for like basis, 
so they offered that as the amount for cash settlement.
Miss M says that isnt enough and has provided a quote for replacement of her lounge 
carpet at £1,040. I appreciate Miss M has said the lounge and bedroom are of very similar 
size but the claim is for the bedroom carpet and therefore Im not persuaded the quote for 
the lounge carpet can be used to say Tesco should increase their offer.
Because of that, it isnt unreasonable for Tesco to have relied upon their contractors quote 
when offering settlement. That said, it has come to light during my assessment of this case 
that Tesco made an error in offering the figure of £532.98. It should actually have been 
£587.63. Tesco have agreed to pay the larger amount.
And while that was a mistake on their part, I dont think it made a material difference to
Miss M, because I still consider shed have been dissatisfied with it, and still would have 
complained.
Miss M should also be aware that if she uses the money to replace the carpet, and pays 
VAT on that, she can provide her invoice to Tesco for a reimbursement of that tax (any 
reimbursement will be based on the £587.63).
It is my understanding that Miss M would prefer a cash settlement but if she would like to opt 
for replacement or a voucher then she may ask Tesco for one of those instead.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I uphold Miss Ms complaint. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited 
to pay her £587.63 (less any amounts which may already have been paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman