DRN-3617810
The complaint
Mr H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct (HSBC) offered him a higher 
loan interest rate than advertised and told him he wasnt eligible for a promotional balance 
transfer rate on his credit card.  
What happened
Mr H says hes been a customer of HSBC for more than 30 years.
In or around August 2022, Mr H submitted an online loan application to HSBC. Hed received 
marketing communications encouraging him to apply which showed an interest rate of 3.3% 
APR. Having completed his application, he was told hed receive a response within 24 hours. 
But that didnt happen.
Mr H contacted HSBC on two or three occasions to seek an update on his loan application. 
HSBC said they were experiencing high application volumes and their response might be 
delayed. They later told Mr H theyd been a technical problem with his application which 
meant he would need to reapply. They apologised for any inconvenience caused and said 
that should he reapply, a loan would be approved at a rate of 5.9% APR.
Mr H wasnt happy with HSBC. He said hed only applied for a loan with an interest rate of 
3.3% APR. Given his long trouble-free association with HSBC and his good credit score, he 
thought they should offer the lower rate. And if not, he wanted them to remove the hard 
credit search which had been recorded on his credit file. HSBC said they werent able to do 
that.
Mr H decided to make a formal complaint. He also wasnt happy that HSBC were advertising 
a promotional balance transfer rate for new credit card holders. Theyd told him he wasnt 
eligible for this. But suggested he could close his existing credit card account and apply for a 
new one after six months under the promotional rate offered. Mr H thought HSBC should 
extend both the promotional credit card rate and the lower loan rate in recognition of his 
long-standing custom and strong credit score.
HSBC responded to Mr Hs complaint by email. They apologised for the problems hed 
experienced with his loan application and agreed to remove the credit search record from his 
credit file in recognition of this. But they werent willing to extend the lower loan rate or the 
promotional credit card rate to Mr H. They said their website and terms and conditions were 
clear that the loan interest rate of 3.3% APR was representative and not guaranteed. They 
also said theyd made it clear that the credit card promotional rate was only available for new 
credit card customers.
Mr H wasnt happy with HSBCs response. So, he referred his complaint to this service. 
Having considered all the information available, our investigator didnt think HSBC had done 
anything wrong and didnt think Mr Hs complaint should be upheld.
Mr H didnt agree with our investigators findings and remained unhappy. He asked that his 
complaint be considered by an ombudsman. Because of this, Mr Hs complaint has been 
passed to me in order to reach a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset, I believe its important to explain the role of this service when considering Mr 
Hs complaint here. 
It isnt the role of this service to supervise, regulate or impose fines on any business. Its also 
not our role to ask a business to alter their policies or procedures or impose improvements 
on the level of service offered to their customers. These aspects fall firmly within the remit of 
the regulator  in this case, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
But it is our role to examine and decide whether a business has been fair and reasonable in 
the manner in which those policies and procedures are applied in the individual 
circumstances of Mr Hs experience with them. When considering his complaint, Ive also 
considered any relevant rules and regulations set down by the FCA in their handbook  
where they apply. 
Credit card promotional rate
Mr H says hed spoken with HSBC about a promotional balance transfer rate they were 
offering to new customers. HSBCs website says, This promotion is only available to first 
direct Current Account holders who havent had a first direct Credit Card or Gold Card within 
the last six months. 
Such offers are commonplace among banks and other financial businesses and are usually 
designed to attract new customers. I believe the terms of this offer are very clear. And as Mr 
H has confirmed he already holds a credit card account with HSBC, it appears he wouldnt 
qualify for this promotion.
Mr H has acknowledged this. But he believes HSBC should make an exception given his 
standing and length of custom. I can appreciate why he might think that. But that would 
ultimately be a commercial decision for HSBC  and not one that this service would want or 
be able to dictate. I can only consider whether HSBCs decision resulted in Mr H being 
treated unfairly or unreasonably. Given HSBCs policy appears to be applied consistently to 
all of its existing credit card customers, I cant reasonably say thats the case here. 
Personal Loan application
HSBCs website provides information about the personal loans they offer. It gave details of a 
loan with an interest rate of 3.3% APR to illustrate the associated costs and repayments. 
The illustration is clearly labelled as a Representative example. It goes on to say, If you 
choose to apply and we offer you a loan, the rate will be based on our assessment of your 
personal financial circumstances, including a credit check. This may be higher than the 
representative APR.
While Mr Hs application may well have been driven by the representative rate included in 
HSBCs illustration, I think it was clear there was no guarantee that rate would be offered 
here. It would depend upon the outcome of HSBCs assessment. And they would need to 
complete that before offering a rate. Ultimately, HSBC have the right to price their products 
as they see fit based upon their assessment of the information available to them. It appears 
they did that here and the rate they offered was slightly higher than the representative rate. 
Product pricing is a commercial decision for HSBC. And like their credit card offering, it isnt 
something that this service would want, or be able to influence. And as Ive found no evidence to suggest HSBC treated Mr H or his application any different to how they would 
for any other applicant, I cant reasonably conclude that theyve treated him unfairly or 
unreasonably here.
I completely understand Mr Hs feelings. And while I appreciate he will be very disappointed; 
I dont think it would be fair to ask HSBC to offer him something they wouldnt be prepared or 
able to offer other HSBC customers in similar circumstances.
HSBC did acknowledge the delays in processing Mr Hs loan application. Theyve 
apologised for that and arranged for the hard credit search to be removed from his credit file. 
This feels like a reasonable response in the circumstances. But having considered 
everything very carefully, I wont be asking HSBC to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman