DRN-3858453
The complaint
Miss M complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) didnt do enough to help 
her retrieve money she paid to a merchant for items she didnt receive.
What happened
Miss M is a customer of Nationwide. In August 2020, she purchased a fireplace and a TV 
corner unit for around £1,390 from a merchant and was told she should expect to receive the 
items within 4-6 weeks. At the time Miss M made the purchases, she was living at her family 
home. But she says she was purchasing items for a new home she was moving into.
Miss M says she contacted the merchant after around 8 weeks and was told the fireplace 
wasnt in stock and to choose another one. She says she didnt like the ones available, so 
asked for a refund. While she says the merchant agreed to giving a refund, they 
subsequently ignored her emails. So, she asked Nationwide for help to retrieve the money 
she paid.
Nationwide temporarily refunded Miss M while they investigated the chargeback claim Miss 
M put through. 
Miss M says she was then contacted by the merchant to arrange delivery for the TV unit to 
be sent out to her, but she says she was away on a family emergency.
In early December 2020, Miss M says she received a letter from Nationwide and they 
explained they declined the chargeback claim following evidence the merchant has provided. 
So they debited Miss Ms account with the money they refunded her. This left her current 
account with Nationwide with a negative balance and in arrears. 
Miss M, unhappy with Nationwides actions, referred her complaint to our service.
Miss M began to receive regular contact from Nationwide due to being overdrawn and in July 
2021, Nationwide passed the account to a third party to collect the debt on their behalf. 
Our investigator found that Nationwide hadnt acted fairly and could have done more for Miss 
M. He explained that he thinks Nationwide didnt explain the chargeback process clearly to 
Miss M and that they made an error by not taking the chargeback claim to arbitration. He 
also went on to explain the impact this mistake had on Miss M and told Nationwide to 
remove any adverse credit information that may have been reported and to pay Miss M £500 
to recognise the distress and inconvenience that this has had on her.
Nationwide disagreed with the investigators findings. Among other things, they say, having 
looked at the merchants terms and conditions, Miss M would have agreed to an unknown 
delivery date. And so, this chargeback claim would have had little chance of success if it was 
taken to arbitration.
Miss M has recently told our service she still hasnt received any items of furniture.
As Nationwide disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide on.
I issued a provisional decision on 30 November 2022 where I explained why I intended to 
uphold Miss Ms complaint. In that decision I said:
A chargeback is a voluntary process run by a card scheme, in this instance, VISA. It is 
intended to resolve settlement disputes without the need to resort to a more formal 
resolution. Examples where a chargeback may be appropriate are where goods never 
arrived or the merchant never provided them, or where goods are faulty and not as 
described. Before a card issuer like Nationwide can initiate a chargeback, wed generally 
expect to see that the cardholder has attempted to resolve matters with the merchant first.
I have seen correspondence between Miss M and the merchant. From the information 
provided, its clear Miss M has attempted to resolve the issue with the merchant first. So, for 
the purpose of this chargeback claim, I am satisfied that Miss M has queried and raised with 
the merchant the issue of not receiving a full refund from them and attempted to resolve 
matters with them first.
A chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. A card issuer, like Nationwide, will normally give 
its customer, like Miss M, a temporary refund. If the merchant accepts the chargeback or 
doesnt respond within a certain time period, the customer gets to keep the money. But the 
merchant can defend any chargeback claim. When that happens, most card issuers can 
choose whether to pursue it further through the chargeback scheme.
Nationwide has provided the call recording of the call Miss M initially made to them about 
retrieving her funds. I have listened to it and Nationwide hadnt clearly explained the 
chargeback process to Miss M. The process was briefly and swiftly explained at the end of 
the call and I dont think sufficient care was taken when Miss M was told that once she 
provides her evidence, that an investigation will take place. I dont think Nationwide clearly 
explained the refund she would receive would be temporary, should the merchant deny the 
claim.
Nationwide say that they have many available links on their website for members to read 
about chargeback claims. While that may be so, Miss M contacted Nationwide directly to 
enquire about retrieving her funds, and I think it is reasonable for her to rely on the 
information she was given during that call.
Nationwide didnt need to raise or pursue a chargeback if its clear Miss M would have lost. 
For example if there is little or no evidence for Miss M to back up her claim. But I would 
consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists and where 
there is a reasonable chance of recovery.
Nationwide could have asked the card scheme to decide who wins based on the chargeback 
rules. In this instance, the card scheme will look at both sides submissions, and then decide. 
Nationwide say they didnt pursue the chargeback claim further because they believe there 
was little chance of recovery due to the evidence the merchant provided. They say that the 
terms and conditions of the merchant show the delivery period is only an estimate and as 
Miss M had agreed to an unknown delivery date, this would have made VISA rule in favour 
of the merchant, in their experience. 
Having looked at evidence Miss M has provided, I think there was a reasonable chance the 
chargeback claim would have been successful. I say this because the terms and conditions 
Nationwide have referenced about delivery also say, Delivery will normally take place within 
the timescales estimated on the order acknowledgement (and in any case within 28 working 
days).Miss M hadnt received her items within this timeframe and has shown she had chased the 
merchant about it on several occasions, as well as about her refund. So Im not satisfied 
Nationwide had done enough on this occasion and made an error by not pursuing with the 
chargeback claim.
Miss M has explained in detail the impact this mistake has caused her. She was unaware 
that the money could have been re-debited from her account, should the merchant defend 
the claim against it. Nationwide say they gave sufficient notice that her account would be re-
debited. They say they did when they gave her 21 days notice in the letter which explained 
her chargeback claim had failed. But as I explained above, I cant see that the chargeback 
process was clearly explained to Miss M in the first instance, when she first contacted them 
to retrieve the funds.
Miss M was in arrears as a result of the re-debit and Nationwide then pursued the money 
through a third-party to collect the debt on their behalf. She explained how she felt harassed 
as she was getting regular calls about the debt and found it unfair and distressing.
Miss M has also explained she was receiving employment support allowance benefits from 
the Department and Work Pensions. I can also see Nationwide was aware of this from call 
notes they have provided between them and Miss M. She has explained she was in need of 
this money to purchase new furniture for her new home, after fleeing an abusive relationship. 
As Nationwide were pursuing funds from her, she says she moved her source of income into 
her sisters account to avoid it being used to repay Nationwide. Miss M has explained that 
receiving this furniture was the start of a new chapter in her life.
Im persuaded by what Miss M has said and I think Nationwide should compensate her for 
the distress and inconvenience caused.
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not satisfied that Nationwide did enough in this instance.
I set out what I intended to instruct Nationwide to do to put things right. And I gave both 
parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses to the provisional decision
Miss M told our investigator she accepts my provisional decision.
Nationwide also respond and said they accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Miss M and Nationwide accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from its conclusions.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not satisfied Nationwide did enough in this instance. So, 
it should:
1. Refund Miss M £1,391.2. Pay simple interest of eight percent per annum on the refund in (1) from the date of 
the re-debit from Miss Ms account to the date of settlement*.
3. Pay Miss M £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
4. Remove any adverse information, if any, that may have been applied to Miss Ms 
credit file in relation to this matter.
*HM Revenue & Customs may require Nationwide to deduct tax from the interest it pays 
Miss M. If it does, and if Miss M requests it, Nationwide should provide her a certificate 
showing how much tax it has taken off so that she may reclaim it if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Nationwide Building Society should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman