DRN-3788001
The complaint
Mrs R, on behalf of the estate of Mr R, complains that Santander UK Plc ignored the lasting 
power of attorney (LPA) placed on the late Mr Rs accounts. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to the estate of the late Mr R as Mr R. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of what has happened on the complaint, so I wont go into the details 
again here. Ill instead go straight to the findings I have made on the case.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to thank Mrs R for the information she has provided on this complaint and I 
wanted to pass on my sincere condolences for her loss. 
Having carefully considered all the information available to me, I cant see that Halifax has 
made an error in the circumstances. Ill explain why in more detail.
The core of this complaint is that Santander allowed Mr R to take out borrowing in the form 
of a credit card account and carry out transfers from his current account to a joint account 
with Mrs R after an LPA had been registered on two of his accounts. Mrs R has said 
Santander should have been aware that Mr R did not have the mental capacity to deal with 
his own financial affairs and should not have allowed him to take out the credit card and 
make the transfers. This led to Santander offsetting the joint account to pay Mr Rs credit 
card debt after he had passed away. 
Santander has acknowledged that the information in its final response letter sent in 
September 2021 was inaccurate, as they stated that the LPA had not been registered with 
the Office of the Public Guardian, when it had. I can see this information is incorrect, and I 
appreciate this must have been frustrating for Mrs R.
I have been provided with a copy of the LPA which was set up in 2008. This named Mrs R 
as the property and financial affairs attorney for Mr R and meant she could make decisions 
on his behalf for property, investments, pensions and other financial affairs. However, an 
LPA does not necessarily mean that someone has lost capacity to make their own decisions. 
I note on the LPA it states:
I intend to give my attorney(s) authority to make decision on my behalf, including in 
circumstances when I lack capacity. But there is no indication that Mr R had lost capacity.
The LPA was registered at the Office of the Public Guardian, meaning it was in force and 
Mrs R was able to make decisions on Mr Rs behalf. But this did not automatically mean that 
Mr R did not have mental capacity to make his own decisions. 
Santander has provided internal policy documents that set out how to manage accounts with 
LPAs registered on them. These say that where a customer no longer has mental capacity, 
they are not permitted to open a new product or enter into a new contract themselves. And 
that the customers access will be amended or removed from existing accounts in 
accordance with the attorneys instruction. It then says that while there is no requirement for 
medical evidence to be provided that a customer no longer has mental capacity, they do 
need to be notified of it. 
Santander has provided contact notes for Mr Rs accounts, as well as any alerts added to 
them, and there is no mention of Mr R losing mental capacity. I appreciate that Mrs R says 
she mentioned this when registering the LPA with them in 2015, but there is no evidence of 
this that I can see. I can appreciate that Mrs R is unhappy she was not specifically told she 
had to declare Mr R did not have mental capacity and feels Santander has kept its policy to 
itself and that the LPA should have been an indication of this. But an LPA can be registered 
for a number of reasons and does not automatically mean the individual no longer has 
mental capacity. So, I dont think it would have been reasonable to have expected Santander 
to know, or even assume, that Mr R may have lacked capacity from the LPA alone here. It 
accepted the LPA on the basis on which it was intended and acted in line with that. 
It therefore follows that I do not think Santander has made an error in allowing Mr R to open 
new accounts and continue to use his existing accounts. So, I dont think it needs to take any 
action to remedy the complaint.     
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman