DRN-2129911
The complaint
Mrs S complains as a result of  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) placing a 
block on her debit card she lost the opportunity to purchase furniture at a discount. 
What happened
Mrs S has a bank account with NatWest and attempted to use her debit card on her account 
to purchase furniture from a retail store offering a significant discount. Mrs Ss card was 
declined after several attempts and Mrs S was told by NatWests fraud team the card was 
blocked for security measures . Mrs S says that the agent at NatWest said she couldnt use 
the pin and would require a new one. This meant that Mrs S lost out on the discounted 
furniture which represented a saving of several hundred pounds. Mrs S visited her bank 
branch to discuss the issue and was told she would be contacted later in the day but never 
received the call . 
NatWest says that they were correct in applying the block to the debit card as a security 
measure and couldnt text Mrs S to confirm the authenticity of the transaction as she doesnt 
accept this method of communication. NatWest did accept that an agent in their team failed 
to advise Mrs S that she could have later on that day used her card as the block had been 
lifted. To reflect this and the fact they failed to call her back as promised, NatWest paid £100 
to Mrs S as a gesture of goodwill.
Mrs S wasnt happy with NatWests response and referred the matter to this service .
The investigator looked at the information available but didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint as 
she felt that NatWest had acted correctly when placing the block on the account as a 
security measure and the compensation offered of £100 was fair for the inconvenience 
offered .
Mrs S wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how I 
have come to my decision.
When considering the complaint, I have looked at if NatWests actions in placing the block 
on Mrs Ss account was reasonable and if Mrs S has suffered financial loss as a result.
I can understand Mrs Ss frustration when she tried to buy the item of furniture only to see 
her debit card being refused resulting in her missing out on the discounted purchase.  
What is important here is the reason why NatWest placed the block on her card in this case. 
NatWest, like all banks, try to protect their customers from fraudulent transactions and carry 
out various checks from time to time if they suspect an authorised transaction or fraud may 
be taking place. This is what happened here - in the terms and conditions of Mrs Ss account 
under Section five it states:
We may suspend, restrict or stop access to your account or to certain services (such as 
your debit card or online banking) if: we reasonably suspect that your security details or your 
debit cord have been used fraudulently or without your permission:
For security reasons NatWest dont make known what reasonably suspect might include 
and these could be for a number of reasons including unusual transactions as an example. 
Having reviewed the statements on Mrs S account it is reasonable to say that the size of 
this transaction would be outside of Mrs S normal day to day account activity. It follows I am 
satisfied that NatWest acted reasonably trying to protect Mrs S by taking the action it did and 
its disappointing that on this occasion it has ultimately worked against Mrs S here. 
I can see that NatWest have admitted that the agent in their fraud department could have 
made it clearer that the card could have been used once the block had been lifted. I have 
considered this point, but both the retailer and Mrs S could have also attempted to have 
used the card after the call to establish if the payment could be processed but I cant see 
that happened. Ultimately Mrs S didnt purchase the furniture so there has been no financial 
loss to her other than the opportunity to receive the discount if the transaction had gone 
ahead. I cant see that I can  hold NatWest  responsible for that.
I understand that NatWest didnt call Mrs S back when they promised to the following day 
and they have accepted this was wrong of them and have paid Mrs S £100 as an apology 
and this is what I would expect to see here.
While Mrs S will be disappointed with my decision I wont be asking anymore of NatWest . 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman