The complaint
Mr K complains about Assurant General Insurance Limited and their failure to rectify a fault 
on his phone under the warranty that was included.
What happened
In May 2019, Mr K made a claim and Assurant provided him with a replacement phone. This 
replacement phone came with a 12 month warranty.
In November, Mr Ks phone developed problems with its battery life. He contacted Assurant 
to make a claim under the warranty. He sent his phone to Assurant and they completed a 
quality check to identify any faults. They were unable to identify any faults with the phone so 
sent it back to Mr K the next day.
Mr K was unhappy that a repair hadnt been completed. So he visited a local branch of his 
phone manufacturer where they identified a software fault. They re-installed the software 
and this rectified the issue with the phones battery life.
Mr K was unhappy that Assurant had failed to identify the software fault so raised a 
complaint. He thought Assurants had failed to repair his phone under the terms of the 
warranty as he expected. So he wanted Assurant to compensate him the trouble hed 
experienced by having to visit the phone manufacturers branch as hed had to take time off 
work to do so.
Assurant didnt agree. They thought theyd inspected the phone fairly and no fault had been 
found. So, they didnt think they needed to anything further. Mr K was unhappy with this 
response so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. He thought Assurant had 
completed all the checks hed have expected and none of them showed a hardware issue 
that was affecting the battery life of the phone. He acknowledged the manufacturer had 
managed to identify a software fault and rectified it but didnt agree this suggested Assurant 
had done anything wrong. He made reference to Mr Ks phone not being backed up and 
thought this may have contributed to the software issue. So he didnt think they needed to do 
anything further.
Mr K didnt agree. He thought it was clear that Assurant should have identified the software 
fault and their failure to do so had inconvenienced him. He also explained hed backed up 
his phone before sending the phone to Assurant and taking it to the manufacturer in case it 
needed to be replaced. So didnt think this had any relevance to his complaint or the issue 
the phone had. As Mr K didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
DRN-1902744What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
First, I want to recognise the inconvenience Mr K has experienced and his reasons for 
bringing his complaint to us. Ive no doubt Mr K wouldve been left frustrated when the 
manufacturer identified a software issue they were able to rectify. By that point, Mr K had 
been without a phone for a number of days after sending it to Assurant for it to be inspected. 
And Mr K wouldve needed to make a conscious effort to visit the phone manufacturers 
store and this wouldve taken both time and effort. Im also aware the phone in question was 
provided as a replacement for a previous phone which had also experienced a fault, so this 
wouldve added to his frustrations. But, for me to agree that Assurant should pay Mr K 
compensation for this, Id have to be sure that the inconvenience hes experienced has been 
caused directly by an error Assurant made. And in this situation, I dont think it has.
The leaflet Mr K was provided, explaining the terms of the warranty he claimed under, 
explain that If any mechanical or electrical failure happen in this time (twelve months) you 
can contact us on the number below for assistance.
So, I think that Assurant were responsible for rectifying any issues that had resulted from a 
fault with the actual mechanics of the phone. Ive seen that when Mr K sent his phone to 
Assurant, the completed all the relevant checks to ensure there were no hardware faults with 
the phone itself. These checks showed that the battery performance was above the 
manufacturer standard of 80%. The checks also failed to identify any other mechanical or 
electrical issues that would impact the battery performance. For this reason, Assurant 
returned the phone to Mr K as there wasnt a mechanical or electrical failure for them to 
repair. And I dont think was unreasonable for them to do.
When Mr K took the phone to the manufacturer, they identified a software fault which they 
were able to rectify. And Mr K is unhappy that Assurant didnt identify or rectify this. But, Ive 
seen the terms and conditions of Mr Ks insurance policy which explain that We only cover 
the device, we dont cover the contents. This means that any pictures, software, downloads, 
apps, music or any other content is not covered by this policy, so make sure you back it up 
regularly.
So, I dont think Assurant were ever in a position to rectify the software fault, even if theyd 
been able to diagnose it. The terms and conditions and warranty leaflet make it reasonably 
clear that Mr Ks cover is for any repairs needed to the actual device. And in this situation, 
the device itself was working correctly. It was the software provided by the manufacturer that 
had failed, so I think it was right that the manufacturer was the one to fix it. And Im glad to 
see they were able to do this free of charge.
So, while I do understand Mr Ks frustration that the issue wasnt fixed by Assurant when he 
sent it to them, and the inconvenience hes been caused by needing to go into a branch of 
the manufacturer, I dont think its fair for me to hold Assurant responsible for this. I think 
Assurant acted fairly and in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy and the 
warranty that was in place. So I dont think they need to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about Assurant General 
Insurance Limited.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14July2020.
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman