DRN-2750796
The complaint
Mr Q complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) declined his application for 
a consolidation loan and didnt treat him fairly during a period of financial difficulty.
  
What happened
Mr Q had a loan from NatWest which he was repaying by monthly instalments. He also had
a credit card and an overdraft with NatWest. In 2018, he began to experience financial
difficulties and wasnt able to keep up with the loan repayments. He applied to NatWest for a
consolidation loan to amalgamate the loan, credit card and overdraft. He hoped to set a new,
realistic repayment rate to help manage the outstanding balances across his accounts. But
he says his application was declined without NatWest giving any reason. He says he offered
to return his credit card and cancel the overdraft facility and that he made numerous
repayment offers. But he says that NatWest didnt respond to these proposals.
In June 2019, NatWest referred Mr Qs current and loan accounts to a debt collection
agency, which Ill call M. At this point, all interest and charges on those accounts were
suspended. I understand that the credit card account is being managed by a separate
agency, and Im not looking at that within this complaint. Mr Q agreed a repayment plan for
the current and loan accounts with M, but he says that M broke the agreement before he had
made any payments. The accounts are currently with another agency and I understand that
no repayment plan is in place as yet.
Mr Q is unhappy with the way NatWest dealt with his accounts. He says that they didnt take
his individual circumstances into account and that they didnt offer any assistance, even
though he made them aware of his financial and health problems. He doesnt think they
treated him fairly. He says that they continued to apply interest and charges to his accounts.
And hes unhappy that his accounts were passed to M, which caused further stress. Mr Q is
also unhappy that NatWest took the first loan repayment less than a month after the loan
was drawn down and he has questioned the validity of this approach.
Mr Q raised these issues with NatWest. They didnt think they had made any mistakes here,
so they didnt uphold the complaint. But Mr Q remained unhappy with the situation, so he
asked this service to look into it. Our investigator didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly. But
Mr Q didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. I issued a 
provisional decision on 8 March 2021 and indicated that I intended to uphold the complaint in 
part. 
NatWest responded to the provisional decision and explained that their practice is to 
continue applying interest to an outstanding loan until it is passed to their Recoveries team, 
at which point debt collection agents are usually appointed. They pointed out that, on the 
one hand, Mr Q wanted interest to be stopped. But, on the other hand, he didnt want debt 
collection agents to be appointed. They said that these things are incompatible. They also 
said that theyd tried to contact Mr Q repeatedly in around February and March 2019 before 
issuing a default notice, but they didnt hear back from him.
Mr Q also responded to the provisional decision and didnt accept the findings. He provided 
detailed comments and additional evidence for me to consider. He still feels strongly that 
NatWest did nothing to help him and says they knew from December 2018 that he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. He says they simply passed his accounts over to the debt 
collection agencies without attempting to come to an agreement with him themselves. He 
says that NatWest have used four different agencies, passing him from one to another, 
which he has found very stressful.
Mr Q maintains that NatWest breached the loan agreement by taking the first repayment 
less than one month after draw down. And he says that the amount of the monthly 
repayments has been wrongly calculated, meaning that NatWest have been taking too much 
money each month. He says the whole contract is null and void as a result of these issues. 
And he says he has no record of having received any cancellation rights when he took out 
the loan.
He maintains that it was unreasonable for NatWest to decline his application for the 
consolidation loan and says that NatWests credit card department accepted a repayment 
plan from him based on the same budget plan.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I put Mr Qs comments and further evidence to NatWest and raised some specific questions 
with them in light of Mr Qs response. I gave NatWest time to respond and comment on this 
information, but they havent made any further comment. So Im making a final decision now 
based on the evidence before me. Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as 
some of it is here, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I 
consider is most likely to have happened, in light of the evidence that is available and the 
wider surrounding circumstances.
There are various aspects to Mr Qs complaint, which Ill look at in turn below.
the first loan repayment
Mr Q drew down the loan on 16 October 2017. The first repayment was taken on 1 
November 2017. When I wrote my provisional decision, I was working from the general
loan conditions supplied by NatWest and I hadnt seen the original loan agreement. The 
conditions say that the first repayment has to be made one month from the date the loan is 
drawn down unless another date in the month is agreed by the parties. On this basis, I found 
it likely that Mr Q had elected to make the repayments at the beginning of each month. But 
Mr Q strongly denies this and has now provided a copy of the original loan agreement dated 
13 October 2017. 
The agreement doesnt state that an alternative repayment date has been agreed. It says 
You will have to pay the following: 96 Repayments, each of £248.03 due at monthly 
intervals, starting one month from the date the Loan is drawn. As the loan was drawn down 
on 16 October 2017, it follows that the first repayment should have been taken on 16 
November 2017. 
Mr Q says he didnt agree to the first repayment being taken only two weeks after draw down 
and that this had a detrimental effect on him. I asked NatWest why the first repayment was 
taken on 1 November 2017, but they havent responded. I havent seen anything which 
explains why the repayment date was changed from the 16th of the month. But I dont find that this change invalidates the loan agreement. Mr Q still had the benefit of the loan money, 
which hes obliged to repay. 
Mr Q is now questioning the monthly repayment amount. The loan agreement says that this 
will be £248.03. But he says this figure is wrong and that NatWest have been charging him 
too much. He says the monthly repayment amount should have been £247.90. I havent 
received any comment from NatWest about this. But Ive reviewed the loan statement which 
shows that monthly repayments of £246.46 were credited to the account each month from 1 
November 2017. As this is less than Mr Q says he ought to have been paying, I dont find 
that he has been paying too much. 
The loan agreement says If the repayment date changes, the Monthly Repayments may 
require adjusting to ensure the Loan and interest is repaid within the term. As the 
repayment date seems to have been changed from the 16th of the month to the beginning of 
the month, I find it likely that this is the reason the repayment amount differs from the 
amount stated in the loan agreement. I havent seen any more information about this. But, 
from the information available, I cant conclude that NatWest have overcharged Mr Q.
Mr Q says that he didnt receive his cancellation rights from NatWest when he opened the 
loan account in October 2017. NatWest havent commented on this. But the Pre-Contract 
Credit Information and loan agreement documents provided by Mr Q both contain numerous 
references to his right of withdrawal. So Im satisfied that Mr Q was given information at the 
time about how to cancel the agreement. 
In conclusion, I find that Mr Q reasonably expected the first loan repayment to be taken on 
16 November 2017. I dont find that he agreed to it being taken earlier. I can understand why 
hes unhappy about this issue. He says it was detrimental to him and I can understand the 
inconvenience of the first payment being taken early. But I havent seen anything which 
confirms it had a significant or ongoing negative impact. It didnt change the over-all amount 
which Mr Q had to pay back. The repayment amount appears to have been adjusted 
accordingly and, ultimately, Mr Q did have the right to withdraw from the agreement. 
Alternatively, he could have requested a change to the repayment date. But I havent seen 
anything to indicate he asked for this at the time. So Im not going to ask NatWest to do 
anything about this now.
the consolidation loan application
Mr Q applied online for the consolidation loan. He made more than one application, the most
recent being in December 2018. He says that his application was declined without any
reason being given. He has suggested that this is a breach of NatWests duty to help
customers who are in financial difficulty.
NatWest say that Mr Qs applications didnt meet their lending criteria. They say that the
applications were made online and declined because Mr Q didnt meet their score. As the
applications werent made in the branch, there was no staff involvement and NatWest say no
mistake was made.
I explained in my provisional decision that its for NatWest as a business to decide who they 
lend to and on what basis. I said I hadnt seen anything to suggest that Mr Qs application 
met their criteria or should have been accepted. That remains the case.
Mr Q has explained that the loan being applied for was a consolidation loan and that he 
wasnt asking to borrow more money. But Id still expect NatWest to act responsibly
in assessing the application and take into account factors such as affordability. The fact that
Mr Q already had a loan and other accounts with NatWest, and had been a customer formany years, didnt mean that NatWest had to offer him the consolidation loan or change
their assessment criteria. The fact that NatWests credit card department had accepted a 
repayment plan from Mr Q based on the same financial information doesnt change this. Im 
not looking at the credit card here and I cant comment or draw any conclusions about the 
decision to accept that proposal.
 
Mr Q questions whether NatWests actions were responsible and strongly disagrees that 
their rejection of the consolidation loan was reasonable. But I havent seen anything which 
indicates NatWest acted unreasonably in declining the application. Whilst Id expect a lender 
to treat a customer positively and sympathetically when they are experiencing financial 
difficulties (which Ill consider in more detail below), this doesnt mean they have to approve 
a loan application in order to help them.
As to the information given by NatWest, I think its in the nature of online applications that 
the customer will generally receive less feedback as to why an application has been rejected 
than if they went through it in the branch with a member of staff who would be able to 
discuss the customers personal circumstances. I dont find that NatWest acted unfairly here 
by simply saying that the application didnt meet their criteria, without giving further details. I 
note that their letter to Mr Q of 10 April 2019 (which I realise is after the event) said that a 
consolidation loan was unlikely to be an option for him due to affordability, which is 
consistent with the application having been declined.
transfer of the accounts to M
The terms and conditions of Mr Qs accounts allow NatWest to transfer them to a third party.
In my provisional decision, I explained that I dont think it was unreasonable for NatWest to 
appoint M, or subsequent agencies, particularly as no repayment plans had been set up.
Mr Q remains very unhappy about this and says that NatWest have appointed four different 
agencies, some of them while the complaint has been under investigation by this service. He 
thinks thats unreasonable and that NatWest should have attempted to resolve the situation 
with him directly before appointing any agency. He also says it was impossible for him to 
come to an agreement with any of the debt collection agencies while the complaint was still 
under investigation by this service. 
NatWest say its their own and their agents normal practice to suspend recovery of a debt 
while a complaint is outstanding. They say this means they wouldnt pursue Mr Q for the 
debt during that time, but it doesnt prevent him from making payments in line with any 
agreement which has been made or from making ad-hoc payments. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I think that Mr Q could have gone ahead with the repayment plan hed 
agreed with M in around October 2019. And I dont find it to be NatWests fault that this 
repayment plan wasnt carried out. 
I can understand Mr Qs concern that any agreement he may have made with any of the 
agencies could have affected this complaint. But, in the circumstances here, I dont find that 
it would have had a detrimental effect. I understand that NatWest havent pursued the debt 
while the complaint has been ongoing, which I think is fair. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for them to keep the accounts with an agency during this time. 
I appreciate that the change in agencies has been stressful for Mr Q and I think most 
customers experience distress when a debt collection agency is appointed. But I dont think 
NatWest acted unreasonably in this respect given that there hasnt been a repayment plan in 
place and the debt hasnt been actively pursued. As before, Im not looking at the actions of 
M or any of the other agencies here. Im only looking at what NatWest did.As to NatWest telling M that they werent aware of a complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, my thoughts on this havent changed. I realise Mr Q disagrees. But, 
because we hadnt contacted NatWest by that stage to ask for their complaint file, they 
wouldnt have known that the complaint was being taken forward by this service. 
treatment by NatWest in relation to financial difficulty
Mr Q has raised concerns about the way NatWest handled his complaint and dealt with 
correspondence. When considering complaints, Im bound by the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, which say we can only look at complaints about certain activities 
carried out by financial businesses. Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity and its not 
one of the things this service can look into. Nor is general customer service. So I cant make 
a decision about these particular concerns which Mr Q has raised. But I can look at whether 
NatWest treated him fairly in relation to his financial difficulties.
Mr Q says NatWest didnt treat him fairly in this respect. He says he made multiple offers to 
repay the debt, all of which were ignored. And he says that the letters he did receive didnt 
take account of his individual circumstances. I would expect a bank to treat a customer 
positively and sympathetically if they are experiencing financial difficulties. In my provisional 
decision, I considered when NatWest first became aware of Mr Qs financial difficulties. 
Based on the information available to me at that time, I thought the earliest NatWest knew 
was 1 February 2019. But Mr Q has now provided copies of letters which he sent to NatWest 
before that. They show that he made NatWest aware as early as 16 December 2018 that he 
was having financial problems. His letters from that date onwards go into detail about his 
finances, explaining the reasons for his difficulties and offering various solutions. Ive put this 
evidence to NatWest and they havent made any comment. So I find that they were aware 
from 16 December 2018 that Mr Q was experiencing financial difficulties.
I also find that, from this time onwards, Mr Q was making proposals to NatWest to repay his 
debt. He says he never received a response to his proposals. As I explained in my 
provisional decision, I asked NatWest for copies of their responses, but the only documents 
they supplied were the complaint response letters, which didnt address Mr Qs proposals. 
NatWest havent commented on Mr Qs further evidence. So I remain satisfied that they 
didnt respond to his proposals. I dont think that was reasonable.
NatWest wrote to Mr Q on 10 April 2019. The letter says that charges have been stopped on 
his accounts, but interest will continue. It says that, in the absence of an acceptable 
repayment proposal, NatWest was considering de-activating Mr Qs accounts and passing 
them to Recoveries, at which point interest would be suspended. It goes on to say that, if an 
acceptable offer is made, Mr Qs accounts would also be deactivated and transferred to 
Recoveries. The effect of this is that, whether there was an acceptable repayment proposal 
or not, the account would ultimately be passed to Recoveries and interest would be 
suspended.
But NatWest continued to apply interest to Mr Qs accounts until June 2019. That was in 
circumstances where: (a) they knew from December 2018 that he was experiencing financial 
difficulties, (b) he had made repayment proposals, and (c) they hadnt replied to those 
proposals. In these circumstances, I dont think it was fair for NatWest to continue applying 
interest. It put Mr Q in a worse position, adding to his debt and causing him further stress, 
even though he had tried to reach a solution with the bank. I appreciate that NatWests usual 
approach might be to continue applying interest until an account is referred to Recoveries. 
But that doesnt mean its fair to keep applying interest until that point, particularly where its 
known that the customer is in financial difficulty. NatWest say that referral of accounts to Recoveries results in the appointment of a debt 
collection agency. They point out that Mr Q didnt want an agency to be appointed. But I 
dont find that the delay in referring the accounts to Recoveries was a conscious choice 
made by NatWest in order to accommodate Mr Qs wishes. It might have put off the 
appointment of an agency, but it was detrimental to Mr Q because it meant his account was 
effectively in limbo because NatWest werent responding to his proposals. And interest 
continued to be applied. 
I noted in my provisional decision that NatWest tried to contact Mr Q unsuccessfully multiple 
times after his Direct Debit payment failed. But, having now seen Mr Qs earlier letters, I 
dont find that NatWests attempted communications were comparable with or responsive to 
the detailed and personalised proposals which Mr Q was putting forward.
I find that, if NatWest had dealt with Mr Qs proposals, whether by accepting or rejecting 
them, his account would have been passed to Recoveries sooner and interest would have 
stopped. But NatWest didnt address the proposals and continued to apply interest. I dont 
think that was fair and I dont think Mr Q should be worse off as a result of this.
I provisionally recommended that NatWest should refund all interest and charges applied to 
Mr Qs current and loan accounts from 1 February 2019 onwards. As Ive now concluded 
that NatWest were aware of Mr Qs financial difficulties from 16 December 2018 onwards, 
Im going to direct them to refund interest and charges on both the current and loan accounts 
from that earlier date.
I also find that NatWest didnt respond positively or sympathetically to the detailed 
information provided by Mr Q about his financial circumstances. I havent seen any evidence 
that they offered any real support in this respect, so I dont think Mr Q was treated fairly. In 
the circumstances, I think a compensation payment would be appropriate here, in addition to 
the refund of interest and charges. 
This is to reflect the fact that, by failing to respond positively or sympathetically to Mr Qs 
situation, NatWest added to his distress. He made numerous offers and suggestions to 
NatWest and was seeking to work with his bank to find a way out of his difficulties. Having 
seen more detail about the efforts he made to do so, I think that NatWests lack of a positive 
response and ongoing application of charges and interest also worsened his financial 
position and overall situation, meaning that simply refunding the charges isnt enough to put 
things right here. Taking everything into account, I think compensation of £250 would be 
appropriate here.
refund of overdraft charges
NatWest wrote to Mr Q recently saying they had carried out a review which had revealed
that, due to an administrative error, some overdraft fees had been applied to his account by
mistake. I asked NatWest for details of the review and the error, so that I could consider how
they impact this decision. I havent received any details. But, for the reasons above,
Im going to ask NatWest to refund all charges from 16 December 2018 onwards.
  
My final decision
For the reasons above, I uphold this complaint. National Westminster Bank Plc should now:
refund all interest and charges applied to Mr Qs current and loan accounts from 16 
December 2018 onwards; and
pay Mr Q compensation of £250.00.
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman