The complaint
Miss J is unhappy with a car she got using finance provided by Moneybarn No. 1 Limited. 
She says shes had various issues with the car and wants to reject it.
What happened
Miss J acquired a used car in April 2019. The car cost £5,999 and the full price was funded 
with a conditional sale agreement provided by Moneybarn. The car was just under eight 
years old and had covered around 13,000 miles.
In July 2019 Miss J complained to Moneybarn about the car. She said she was unhappy with 
the tyre condition and the gearbox had issues. In particular, she said it was difficult to select 
reverse gear. She said she wanted to reject the car.
Moneybarn said the tyres were a wear and tear issue and the car had passed an MOT 
before being sold. But, it arranged for an independent inspection to be carried out to look at 
the gearbox. This was carried out at the end of July 2019 and the mileage was recorded as 
13,732.
The independent inspection identified issues with the gearbox, in particular difficulty 
selecting reverse gear. Following this, the car was returned to the dealer and the clutch 
replaced. Moneybarn then issued a final response letter (FRL) saying it was upholding
Miss Js complaint, but it wasnt allowing her to reject the car as things had been put right by 
the repair.
In late August 2019 Miss J contacted Moneybarn again saying the car still had issues. She 
said it was still difficult to select reverse gear, the car had a warning light illuminated, it was 
making an odd noise and it had trouble starting. Moneybarn initially said to speak to the 
dealer about the issues. Miss J again asked to reject the car at this point.
Miss J and Moneybarn continued to communicate about the car and in September 2019 a 
second independent inspection was carried out. The mileage at this point was recorded as 
14,867. The inspection noted various problems including issues with the car starting, a noise 
from the suspension and problems selecting reverse gear. The inspection said it thought it 
was likely the previous repair had failed.
Moneybarn spoke to the dealer. The dealer said two independent garages it had referred to 
couldnt find a fault with the car. The dealer then arranged for a manufacturers garage to 
look at the car at the beginning of November. The mileage was recorded as 14,892. This 
garage said it couldnt find an issue with the gearbox and believed it was operating in line 
DRN-1490643with the characteristics of the model. Moneybarn then offered to send the car for another 
inspection at a different garage, but Miss J refused  saying she agreed with the 
independent report.
Later in November Moneybarn issued a second FRL. This said it wasnt upholding the 
complaint as the manufacturers garage couldnt find a fault with the gearbox. And it said the 
other issues were due to wear and tear.
Miss J then brought the complaint to this service. She said this issue had caused her a great 
deal of distress and she had to take time off work due to this. While the case was waiting to 
be looked at, Moneybarn took possession of the car as Miss J had left it at the dealer.
Our investigator upheld Miss Js complaint. She said she thought it was most likely the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. She thought the issue with the gearbox was likely to be 
intermittent and she thought it was most likely the independent reports had identified issues 
with the car. To put things right, she thought Miss J should be allowed to reject the car. But, 
she didnt recommend any additional payment for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
She said this was due to Miss J having only paid one repayment towards the agreement.
Miss J agreed with the investigators opinion. But, she asked her to reconsider an additional 
payment for the impact this situation had on her and her health. Moneybarn disagreed. It 
said it agreed with the garages comments that the gearbox was working as normal for this 
make and model.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think this complaint 
should be upheld. I'll explain why.
This complaint is about a car financed by a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated 
agreement, so this service can consider Miss Js case against Moneybarn.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that when Miss J got the 
car, the supplier  Moneybarn  had a responsibility to make sure it was of satisfactory 
quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person would expect  taking into account 
any relevant factors. In this case, I would consider relevant factors would include the cars 
price, mileage and description  amongst others.
So, I need to consider if the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss J. Ill 
consider that although the car was around eight years old, it had a low mileage for its age of 
around 13,000. So, I think a reasonable person wouldve expected it to have been in better 
condition and to have suffered from less wear and tear than a car of a similar age but higher 
mileage.
It seems in this case that Moneybarn initially accepted the fact that there was an issue with 
the cars gearbox. But, given Miss J says this issue continued and Moneybarn later changed 
its opinion, I think its worth considering this myself. Miss J reported this issue around three 
months after getting the car. Ive thought about what the first independent inspection from 
July 2019 said about this. In this report it says:When trying to select reverse gear we found this difficult to select and a degree of force had 
to be used to select reverse gear. Reverse gear would then select with a clunking type 
noise
we would conclude that at the time of our inspection we found reverse gear very difficult to 
select. Resistance could be felt on selection and would take several attempts to engage 
gear
Taking into consideration the time and mileage covered by the vehicle since the point of 
finance inception we do consider this, on the balance of probability, to have been developing 
or present at that time
Thinking about this, along with what Miss J told us, Im satisfied there was an issue with the 
gearbox and selecting reverse gear that was present or developing at the point of sale. And, 
Im satisfied that this meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
After this report had been received, the car was returned to the dealer and the clutch was 
replaced. But, a few weeks later Miss J said the gearbox still had issues in selecting reverse 
gear. And she said a warning light was on and the car was struggling to start. A second 
independent inspection was completed. The report said:
We then repeated the start up procedure on several occasions and we found the vehicle, on 
occasion, would crank over but not start. On other occasions clicking type noise could be 
heard from the starter motor.
All forward gears selected smoothly, but we found that reverse gear offered resistance and 
was difficult to select and notchy on selection. Again, this was intermittent.
we would conclude that the issues are still present on selection of reverse, which would 
require further investigation. We do consider that this issue is still present due to failed 
previous repairs
When it received this report, Moneybarn communicated with the dealer and the car was 
returned. The dealer then says two garages looked at the car and couldnt find a fault. But, I 
havent been given any evidence of this such as any reports or job sheets.
The car was then taken to a manufacturers garage to look at. Moneybarn supplied a copy of 
the invoice from this visit. This says:
Roadtested vehicle, and carried out on ramp vehicle inspection. Unable to fault selection of 
reverse gear, all in accordance to normal characteristic of vehicle
Moneybarn says that this shows there was no fault with the car and it was working in line 
with its characteristics. But, having thought about this, I dont agree.
Ive considered the level of information that the invoice includes about the car. The short 
passage above is all the detail it contains about the issue. Whereas, the two independent 
reports go into much more depth about the problem, what was looked at and the road tests 
involved. So, Im more persuaded by the independent reports than the invoice. 
Ive also thought about the fact that the second independent report specifically says that the 
issue with selecting reverse gear is intermittent. The invoice does say the car was road-
tested, but it doesnt say for how long. So, I think its quite likely that the reason the 
manufacturers garage didnt find a fault is due to it not happening all the time.Thinking about this, Im satisfied the issue with selecting reverse still continued after the 
dealer attempted a repair. So, Im satisfied this meant the repair wasnt successful and the 
 car still didnt conform to the contract.
I have considered that Moneybarn offered a second opinion from a further garage that
Miss J declined. But, given the car had been tested at least three times at this point, I dont 
think it was unreasonable of Miss J to not allow this. So, this doesnt change my opinion.
Ive also considered that the second independent report also found various other faults 
including an issue with the car not starting. In its response to us about the complaint, 
Moneybarn says the second report said the other issues were due to wear and tear and 
werent Moneybarns responsibility. But, I dont agree with this. The report does say issues 
are due to wear and tear of parts. But, it also says:
We do consider that the other issues found are considered to be wear and tear related, 
taking into consideration the time and mileage covered by the vehicle since the point of 
finance inception. We do consider, on the balance of probability that these issues would 
have been present or developing at that point
The selling agent is responsible for the cost of repairs
We do consider the faults found to have been present since purchase
In answer to the question:
 Please confirm any faults you consider to be wear and tear related or maintenance, which 
have developed since purchase?
The report says:
No faults considered wear and tear since purchase
The second report does report various problems such as issues with a noise from the 
suspension and coolant leakage. But, there isnt much detail about these problems, so I 
dont know how serious they are. I also dont have much information about the initial issues 
with the tyres Miss J reported. So, I havent seen enough to make me think these problems 
meant the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
But, the second report does confirm issues with the car starting, which was also reported by 
Miss J. I think this is potentially a serious issue. And, I think its quite clear that the second 
report says this fault was present or developing at the point of supply  even if it was due to 
wear and tear.
Thinking about this, Im satisfied the issue with the car starting also means the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. Its worth pointing out that this means, even if I reached the opposite 
conclusion about the reverse gear and believed this was operating normally, I would still 
consider the car to have been of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
I now need to consider what would be fair to put things right. Miss J has been quite clear that 
she wants to reject the car. When the issue was first reported, Miss J had a right for 
Moneybarn to repair the issue  which it attempted. But, Im satisfied this repair failed. So, I 
think Moneybarn shouldve allowed Miss J to reject the car when it received the second 
independent report.Ive considered whether Miss J should receive some additional compensation from 
Moneybarn due to whats happened. She told us this situation has caused her some health 
problems and she said she had to take time off work. Ive thought carefully about this. Im 
sure this wouldve been a very stressful situation for Miss J. And Im very sorry to hear she 
has been unwell. But, Miss J only made one repayment towards the finance. She was given 
a hire car for around a week when her car was repaired. For the rest of the time until the car 
was left at the dealers, Miss J did have some use of the car  even if it wasnt performing as 
it should.
Thinking about this, from the mileage recorded on the manufacturers garages invoice, it 
appears Miss J covered just under 2,000 miles in the car when she had it. Im satisfied its 
most likely she was using the car for a longer period than she paid for. So, I think the fairest 
thing to do is to end the agreement with nothing further to pay - meaning Miss J wont have 
to make up the arrears on the account  rather than making a separate award for distress 
and inconvenience. Im satisfied this is a fair outcome for both parties.
I believe Miss J will have had negative information recorded on her credit file in relation to 
the agreement. Im satisfied had Moneybarn supplied a car of satisfactory quality, this 
wouldnt have been the case. So, Moneybarn should remove any negative information from 
Miss Js credit file. Moneybarn is now in possession of the car, so no action needs to be 
taken to collect it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things right, I instruct
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay
Remove any adverse information from Miss Js credit file
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
John Bower
Ombudsman