DRN-2835498
The complaint
Mr P complains that Vanquis Bank Limited (Vanquis) unfairly and irresponsibly increased 
his credit card limit without his agreement. 
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties. So, Ive summarised events.
Mr P held a credit card with Vanquis from January 2014 to January 2017. This 
initially included a £500 limit. Across the following years Vanquis increased Mr Ps 
limit on several occasions raising this eventually to £4,000.
He complained, saying this it caused him financial difficulty, and his circumstances 
and financial history showed Vanquis to have provided credit irresponsibly.
Vanquis said it carried out sufficient checks when making these increases. It said 
these showed Mr P had no county court judgements (CCJs) or recent defaults 
against him, and all of his payments had been made on time and in full. It also said it 
notified Mr P of the increases on each occasion, and gave him the option to decline. 
It also noted his total external lending (excluding mortgage debt) had fallen from 
around £12,000 in 2014 to only £12 a year later  only rising to around £1,100 in the 
following years.
Our investigator considered what happened and said Vanquis had acted fairly and in 
line with its lending obligations when making these increases  taking into account 
relevant information about his credit file and payments.
Mr P said he had missed a payment and gone over his limit in 2014, and highlighted 
his loan history. He also said his external lending may have only increased because 
of debts being passed on to third parties. And that he had to borrow from elsewhere 
to make payments and hadnt managed his finances well. 
Our investigator considered these points, but it didnt change his mind  saying 
Vanquis had considered his history at the time of each limit increase. And he said the 
point about debts being passed on wasnt reflected in any credit reference agency 
(CRA) information. Nor could he see that Mr P had raised this with Vanquis at any 
time. And based on what Vanquis did have from its searches and Mr Ps payment 
history, it appeared he was successfully managing his finances.
Mr P disagreed. He reiterated his concerns and said he was unable to provide any 
further evidence to support his position. He also referenced redress he received from 
other lenders who had upheld his complaints. 
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. And largely for the same reasons given by 
our investigator previously. 
Mr F has made a number of arguments about steps he thinks Vanquis shouldve taken. Ive 
considered everything hes said but I wont be responding in similar detail. So, if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen or thought 
about it. Ive just simply focused on the key issues that I need to explain my decision. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy, it is just a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
The relevant rules and guidance from the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Consumer Credit sourcebook required Vanquis to undertake a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Ps creditworthiness each time it increased his credit limit. 
Vanquis has its own processes and approach to risk when providing credit, but I have 
to consider whether it has met the requirement of undertaking a reasonable 
assessment in these particular circumstances.
In line with the above rules, Ive looked at whether Vanquis reasonably considered 
the information it held for Mr P, his ability to make repayments each month, any 
information it could obtain from CRAs and his credit file. 
Im satisfied Vanquis carried out checks on each of the dates of increases. And that 
based on the available evidence it had from CRAs and what it knew of his payment 
history the increases were reasonable.
Mr P has said that his debts may have appeared to decrease, but this was likely to 
be as a result of debts being passed on. But this simply isnt apparent within the 
available evidence. Hes suggested his account wasnt well maintained, citing an 
instance where he says a payment was missed. But this isnt reflected within his 
statements either. And from what I have seen he made all of his repayments and 
made payments above the minimum on a number of occasions. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ps wider lending history and his commentary around this. 
But in all of the circumstances Im satisfied Vanquis carried out proportionate checks 
and a reasonable assessment of his creditworthiness each time it increased his 
credit limit, as our investigator has outlined previously. And as a result, Im not 
directing it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman