DRN-3612877
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim she 
made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system she says were misrepresented to her by the supplier.
Mrs H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In July 2015, Mrs H was contacted by a representative of a company Ill call P to talk about 
purchasing a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at her home. After being 
visited by a representative of P, Mrs H decided to purchase the system and finance it 
through a 5-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The system was subsequently 
installed.
In June 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mrs Hs behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Shawbrook. The CMC said that, following a cold call, P had made a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mrs H to enter into the contract with P. The CMC said 
the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding because the feed-in tariff income and electricity 
savings would be equal to or greater than the monthly loan repayments. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mrs H but 
offered £200 due to the time it had taken to respond. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided our adjudicator didnt think that P had misrepresented the 
system to Mrs H and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators view for the following reasons:
P was the subject of disciplinary investigation the Renewable Energy Consumer 
Code (RECC) in 2013, while it was a member. 
The CMC has provided what it claims are sales training documents used by P which 
it thinks indicates they were told the solar panel systems would pay for themselves. 
The CMC pointed to a court case involving a different lender and solar panel installer 
which was won by the consumer. 
The CMC pointed to Financial Conduct Authority outcomes for fair treatment of 
consumers which it felt had not been met. 
The CMC didnt think the adjudicator had given sufficient weight to what Mrs H had 
said she was told during the sale, including that she was not taken through the quote. 
Mrs H didnt receive a copy of the quote until after shed agreed to the purchase. 
The benefits of the system are lower than what was shown in the quote, and Mrs H 
wouldnt have agreed to the purchase if shed understood it would take at least 12 
years to cover the cost of the system including the loan interest. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mrs H paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees that 
section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mrs H could claim against 
Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the same 
way she could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account 
when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mrs H and 
P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mrs H says that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be entirely self-
financing and come at no additional cost.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these , along with Mrs Hs testimony and recollection of the sales meeting, to 
decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mrs Hs 
version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
The loan agreement clearly sets out the cash price of the goods.
Mrs H has said that the cost of the system was documented as £9,495.00. she has said that 
this was done to mislead her as this figure did not include any interest associated with the 
loan so hid the true cost of the system, £12,276.00.
On balance Im satisfied that Mrs H was told that the cost of the system was £9,495.00. The 
quote sets this out clearly. This is also supported by the credit agreement which sets out that 
the cash price of the system was £9,495.00. The monthly payment was £204.60. The total 
amount of credit is £9,495.00 and goes on to show that the total amount payable would be 
£12,276.00.
Having considered all the evidence, including Mrs Hs recollections, Im satisfied that they 
were told that there would be a monthly loan repayment due. The quote makes this clear, as 
set out in the table below. Overall, Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote and the 
credit agreement, made it clear that although the cost of the system was £9,495.00, it would 
cost Mrs H more than this as she had decided to pay for it with an interest bearing loan. 
I can see that Mrs H agreed to and received a refund of £500 relating to the voltage 
optimiser, which was not suitable for her property.
Mrs H has said that she was told the monthly loan repayments would be covered, or self-
funded by the FIT payments and electricity savings. Ive considered the quote that was 
provided by P as well as the Mrs Hs recollections of their meeting with Ps representative to 
decide what is most likely to have been said. 
The system analysis page of the quote sets out the estimated income Mrs H could expect to 
receive by way of FIT payments from the system. This is split out into the expected FIT 
payments in the first year and the expected average income over 20 years. The FIT scheme 
only provides payments for a 20-year period.
 
I think that the first of these tables is clear that Mrs H could expect to receive a total FIT 
income in year one of £475.55, which results in an average monthly income of £39.79. As 
outlined above, Im satisfied that the credit agreement and the quote set out that there would 
be a monthly loan repayment due of £204.60. As a result, Im not able to conclude that the 
consumer was told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mrs H could expect from the system. The 
expected year one electricity savings is £240.01 and, when taking into account the optional 
extras chosen by Mrs H the combined income and savings in year one is shown as £798.89. 
This is shown in a table titled Putting it all together.
The quote contains a graph titled earnings and savings against monthly payments year 1. 
This clearly shows that the monthly payments exceed the savings and income throughout 
the year.
Theres a section headed Repayments with three tables showing repayments over 60 
months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 60 months this is the 
length of the loan that Mrs H entered into with Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as 
repayable in 60 monthly payments of £201.28. For each year of the 5-year loan it shows the 
expected grand total return from the system. It then averages that figure over 12 months and 
subtracts the monthly loan repayment of £201.28, to give an average difference between the 
monthly return from the system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think the quote clearly sets out the income Mrs H could expect to receive from the system, 
by way of FIT payments, as well as her expected contractual monthly loan repayments. 
Whilst I accept that the table doesnt simply compare the FIT income to the monthly loan 
repayments, it does clearly set out that the overall benefits she could expect to receive by 
way of FIT income and any additional savings, would not be immediately sufficient to cover 
the monthly loan repayments. 
This supports my finding above that Mrs H wasnt told that the FIT payment would cover the 
loan repayment. Ive carefully thought about Mrs Hs version of events. However, as Ive 
found that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the salesperson went 
through at the meeting, I dont think I can reasonably find that she was told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Ill now consider whether P told Mrs H that the system would be self-funding. In doing so Ill 
again weigh all the available evidence to decide what is most likely to have happened. 
Bearing in mind my finding on the central role the quote played in the sales meeting, Ive 
considered the table above which sets out the estimated average monthly income from the 
system, and the effect on that income of subtracting the monthly loan repayment. Im 
satisfied that the table is clear and easy to understand and on balance Im also satisfied that 
the salesperson referred to the table at the meeting.
As a result, I consider the salesperson did not make a representation that the system would 
be self-funding from the start. Rather, I find that the salesperson went through the quote at 
the meeting which sets out that there would be a difference between the expected income 
and the monthly loan repayments.
That said, I do accept that Mrs H was told by P that the system would be self-funding over a 
certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 20 years. This shows that by year 12 the overall benefits that Mrs H could 
expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under the loan agreement. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mrs H that the system would pay for itself by 
year 12, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an 
untrue statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced her to enter into the 
contract, and she subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mrs H. I have looked at Mrs Hs FIT statements and Im satisfied 
that the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
I have also looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, 
expected annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. 
I am satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2005 and 2014 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mrs H hasnt been receiving the financial returns she may have been 
expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than the 
modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system has 
been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2005 to 2014. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mrs H 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mrs H entered into the 
contract.
The CMCs additional comments
The CMC says that P was the subject of disciplinary investigation by the Renewable Energy 
Consumer Code (RECC) in 2013 and 2017. While Ive taken this into account I do not think it 
would be fair and reasonable to place more weight on the RECC disciplinary investigation 
findings than on the evidence specific to Mrs Hs sale. 
The CMC has provided what it claims are sales training documents used by P which it thinks 
indicates they were told the solar panel systems would pay for themselves. It is unclear what 
the documents are or when P might have been using these. Again, I have found the 
evidence specific to Mrs Hs sale to be more persuasive when making my decision. 
The CMC pointed to a court case involving a different lender and solar panel installer which 
was won by the consumer. The circumstances differed significantly, in that the sales 
documents in that case showed only the estimated first year benefits of the solar panel 
system. In Mrs Hs case, the quote is far more detailed and shows the estimated benefits on 
an annual basis over 20 years. So, I dont think the court case referenced by the CMC is 
more persuasive than the evidence that is specific to Mrs Hs sale. 
The CMC pointed to Financial Conduct Authority outcomes for the fair treatment of 
consumers which it felt had not been met. While Ive taken the CMCs comments and FCA 
rules, regulations, and guidance into account, this has not led me to change my decision. 
The CMC didnt think the adjudicator had given sufficient weight to what Mrs H had said she 
was told during the sale, including that she was not taken through the quote and that she 
was not provided a copy of this until after shed agreed to the purchase. I have addressed 
these issues above and explained my reasons for concluding that it is likely that Mrs H was 
taken through the quote during the sales meeting  before she agreed to the purchase.  
 
The CMC says the benefits of the system are lower than shown in the quote, and Mrs H 
wouldnt have agreed to the purchase if shed understood it would take at least 12 years to cover the cost of the system including the loan interest. Ive explained above why I think the 
assumptions made by P were reasonable and why I think the benefits have not matched the 
estimates. This has not led me to think this complaint should be upheld.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mrs H to enter 
into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman