DRN-3893711
The complaint
Ms R complains about the quality of a car she bought using a credit card supplied by
NewDay Ltd (NewDay), trading as Marbles.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in December 2022. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint NewDay, but I dont currently agree with the investigators opinion
and Im expecting to uphold this complaint.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
As the card here was a credit card it was possible to process a section 75 claim. This section
of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a
credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if
there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met. The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then NewDay are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Ms R. The car here was already
about 13 years old and had completed over 111,000 miles. It was also quite a low value
vehicle as it only cost Ms R £900. So, I think a reasonable person would expect it to be
showing significant signs of wear and tear and to accept that some components may be
coming to the end of their useful life.
However, I dont think a reasonable person would expect a car even of this age, mileage,
and price, not to work after only a couple of weeks. The AA report explains that the battery
was flat, a spark plug was stuck, two cylinders werent firing and there was significant oil in
the hole for the coil and also in one of the spark plug holes. Ms R has explained that the AA
engineer warned her that the cylinder head would need to be removed to remove the spark
plug and I think the oil in the coil and spark plug holes suggested an engine leak and
potentially a serious one. I dont therefore think this car was of satisfactory quality.
The relevant legislation gives consumers the right to reject goods that are of unsatisfactory
quality within 30 days. A text from Ms R, sent on 20 July 2021 within 30 days of purchase,
explained that she didnt feel the vehicle was fit for purpose and she was clearly asking M
to take the car back and refund her money. As a request was made to return the car within
30 days and I think there was evidence the car was of unsatisfactory quality I dont think
NewDay were reasonable when they rejected Ms Rs claim under section 75.
Whilst I understand M was prepared to take the car back and repair it, the dealership was
120 miles away and there appeared to be an expectation that Ms R would pay to transport
the vehicle. I dont think that was a reasonable offer and I think Ms R should have been
allowed to invoke her short term right to reject the car and to get her money back.
Ms R has explained that shes subsequently scrapped the car and received £135 for it. I
think NewDay should refund the shortfall between the £900 Ms R paid for the car and the
£135 she managed to sell it for. Its fair, however, that Ms R should pay for the limited use
she had from the car. She was able to use it to drive the 120 miles, or so, back from her
holiday with her family before the car stopped working. So, I think its fair for NewDay to
make a deduction from the refund to compensate them for the use Ms R has had from the
car. Given the limited use, I think a £50 deduction is fair.
Ms R has also explained that she has incurred other costs as a consequence of the car
failing. Shes explained there was a cost for cancelling her insurance and car tax and Ive
seen a bill from the emergency breakdown service for £22 to cover the call out after she got
the car home. I think it would be fair for NewDay to refund the £22 and to add interest to that
amount from the date it was paid (15 July 2021) to the date of settlement. Im also expecting
to ask them to refund the insurance cancellation costs and any road tax fee if Ms R can
evidence those to NewDay. Theyll need to add interest to any refunds.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to uphold this complaint and to tell NewDay
Ltd to:
Refund the £900 Ms R paid for the car, less £135 she has already recouped from 
scrappage and less £50 for fair usage. Add 8% simple interest per year to the refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the £22 it cost Ms R for her emergency breakdown callout as that wouldnt
have been necessary if the car was of satisfactory quality. Add 8% simple interest
per year to that refund from the date of payment (15 July 2021) to the date of
settlement.
Refund any insurance or road tax cancellation charges Ms R has incurred as a
consequence of this issue and if Ms R can provide evidence of those costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms R accepted my provisional decision and Creation didnt provide any new information. Ive 
not therefore been persuaded to change that provisional decision.Putting things right
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell NewDay Ltd to:
Refund the £900 Ms R paid for the car, less £135 she has already recouped from 
scrappage and less £50 for fair usage. Add 8% simple interest per year to the refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Refund the £22 it cost Ms R for her emergency breakdown callout as that wouldnt
have been necessary if the car was of satisfactory quality. Add 8% simple interest
per year to that refund from the date of payment (15 July 2021) to the date of
settlement.
Refund any insurance or road tax cancellation charges Ms R has incurred as a
consequence of this issue and if Ms R can provide evidence of those costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman