DRN-3687701
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Sainsburys Bank Plc didnt close his account when he asked them to.
What happened
In October 2020, Mr W completed a balance transfer to clear the balance outstanding on his
Sainsburys credit account. At that time, he asked Sainsburys to close the account, and he
moved address shortly afterwards and didnt notify Sainsburys because he believed the
business relationship had ended.
In November 2021, Mr W learned that Sainsburys hadnt closed his account and that a few
months earlier had allowed a recurring transaction to take place which had subsequently
placed the account in a position of arrears. Mr W wasnt happy about this, so he raised a
complaint.
Sainsburys looked at Mr Ws complaint. They had no record of receiving an account closure
request from Mr W, and so they didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly in how theyd
administered the account. However, as a gesture of goodwill, they removed the fees and
charges that had been incurred on the account because of the disputed transaction balance
up to that time.
Mr W wasnt satisfied with Sainsburys response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that it was more likely than not
that Mr W had asked Sainsburys to close the account in October 2020, and so they
recommended that this complaint be upheld in Mr Ws favour on that basis.
Sainsburys didnt agree with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, so the
matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 August 2022 as follows:
Its notable that when Mr W cleared the balance on the Sainsburys account, he did 
so by making a balance transfer to another credit account held with a different 
provider. And its also notable that this balance transfer was initiated by Mr W from
the other credit provider, and not by Mr W contacting Sainsburys and instructing 
them to transfer the balance to the other provider.
Sainsburys dont dispute that the balance transfer took the balance of the 
Sainsburys credit account to zero, but they do dispute that Mr W ever contacted 
them directly and requested that the Sainsburys account be closed following that 
balance transfer, because they have no record of Mr W ever having done so.
When evidence is incomplete or contradictory, as it is here, then I have to decide 
what I think is more likely than note to have happened in the circumstances, on the 
balance of the evidence available to me. And given that it can be demonstrated that 
the balance transfer originated from the Mr W instructing the other credit provider to 
initiate the balance transfer from the Sainsburys account, and given that Sainsburys 
have no record of Mr W actively requesting the closure of his Sainsburys account, I 
feel that its more likely than not, on balance, that Mr W didnt directly request 
Sainsburys to close the account in this instance. Instead, I feel that its more likely 
that Mr W instructed the other credit provider to initiate the balance transfer and that 
Mr W then left the Sainsburys credit account unused but unclosed.
In arriving at this position Ive also considered that if Mr W would have asked 
Sainsburys to close the account, then he would also have expected to receive some 
form of confirmation from Sainsburys that the account had been closed. But Mr W 
never received any such confirmation, because none was ever sent, and I feel that 
regardless of whether Mr W had or hadnt asked Sainsburys to close the account, 
the non-receipt of the account closure confirmation should have given Mr W cause to 
suspect that the account may still be open.
Finally, I also note that the recurring transaction that took place on the account in 
August 2021 was a payment for a service subscription. It would have been Mr Ws 
responsibility to ensure that this service subscription was set to be taken from the 
correct account, and given that the transaction was honoured by Sainsburys  
because Mr W had an open credit account with them  then it stands to reason that 
Mr W has benefited from this ongoing service subscription, and hasnt been 
adversely financially impacted by it being paid. And this is especially the case given 
that Sainsburys agreed to reimburse the charges that Mr W had incurred on the 
account up to the point of the complaint response in 2021, thus giving Mr W the 
opportunity to clear the transaction balance without undue penalty.
All of which means I find it difficult to conclude that Sainsburys have acted unfairly or
unreasonably here, given that I find their testimony that Mr W never requested an 
account closure to be persuasive, and given the reimbursement of the incurred fees 
up to the point of the complaint response. And it follows from this that my provisional 
decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Sainsburys to take any further action.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mr W and Sainsburys the opportunity to 
provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to 
a final decision. Sainsburys confirmed they were happy to accept my provisional decision, 
whereas Mr W did not respond.
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision whereby this complaint is not upheld 
on the basis as outlined in my provisional decision above. And I can confirm that my final 
decision is that I do not uphold this complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2022.
 
Paul CooperOmbudsman