DRN-1441932
The complaint
F, a limited company, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc did not assist it when it 
had difficulty making loan payments and instead said it would be closing the accounts.
What happened
F had an overdraft facility with NatWest. In October 2017 the management of its case was 
transferred to the Specialist Business Management (SBM) team in NatWest as there had 
been excesses over the limit. A consolidation loan was taken in December 2017, but F was 
not able to maintain all the payments due to fluctuations in its contract income. A new 
refinance was offered in January 2019, but this was not agreed as F said that its 
circumstances had changed. NatWest issued letters in March 2019 making formal demand 
and telling F that it needed to re-bank. F did not think that this was reasonable because it 
had kept communicating with NatWest and so did not accept that the relationship had 
broken down. It complained about this, the level of its charges and the service provided by 
SBM. NatWest offered it a further refinance in September 2019, but F had not accepted this. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he thought 
NatWest had acted reasonably and had been trying to find a solution to the financial issues 
faced by F. It had accepted that in August 2019 the director of F had been given the 
impression that only one member of staff in SBM could assist him. That was not the case 
especially when, as then, that staff member was away. But our investigator looked at the 
time period over which attempts had been made to find a solution and the extent of contact 
there had been with the director about this. The notice of formal demand and re-bank letter 
had set out what F needed to do within a set time period and NatWest had said in its final 
response that these are sent to provide factual and necessary information regarding your 
accounts. He could not see that there had been any error in the charges applied to the 
account in line with the published tariff. And it was a matter for NatWest to decide on its 
processes. He also thought that it was up to F to decide whether or not to continue with 
direct debits on the current account and not for NatWest to cancel these as F had stated.
At the time of his opinion the investigator said that the accounts remained open and that as 
this is a complaint by a company, it couldnt suffer distress, even though he knew how the 
director felt about things. There seemed to be ongoing discussions with NatWest which is 
what he would expect to happen. And we couldnt look at any new complaint points that 
NatWest hadnt had a chance to comment on  for example about interest being 
compounded and it not being prepared to convert the loan back to an overdraft.
F did not agree. The director said that its accounts had since been closed in January 2020 
despite it not being given the chance to switch its banking and direct debit payments to a 
different bank. He said he did not think NatWest could rely on its original notice of closure. 
He wanted an ombudsman to look at the history of what happened and the financing 
packages.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Im only going to be able to look here at the issues our investigator has. And I 
know that hes been in touch with F to explain how the new complaint points can be taken 
forward. So, although F has told us that the account has now actually been closed thats 
something that would need to be looked at separately.
I have looked at all the information provided by NatWest about this borrowing. Its not in 
dispute that F was not operating its original overdraft borrowing within the limit. And that it 
has not kept to the terms of the first consolidation loan. Thats because its income has not 
been regular. And contracts had either not been sustained or had not been agreed with its 
clients in the way the director expected. Its clear hes been very open with NatWest about 
this.
Whenever NatWest has considered a refinance its looked at the financial projections and 
affordability as it would be expected to. It has made further offers to F as set out above  but 
the directors said that the contracts he expected have changed and so these offers could 
not be accepted.
At times it seems to be agreed that hes not had the service that NatWest intended from 
SBM. Its apologised for that and although thats been frustrating, I dont see its affected the 
outcome - putting this into the context of the overall discussions that have been held. And 
that these have not in the end resulted in anything different for F.
F had been able to continue to make payments from its account for a period. I dont agree 
that this account or charges should have been suspended or direct debits stopped  if thats 
what F is unhappy about. It did remain Fs responsibility to manage the account and not 
borrow without any facility in place. I dont see any evidence that charges have been applied 
incorrectly. 
I would expect NatWest to consider the repayment difficulties and financial position of F 
carefully and to act fairly. That doesnt mean it has to take any particular action  for 
example by not applying charges. And here in line with its process the borrowing was at 
times transferred to be managed at SBM. Im satisfied F was given an extended period of 
time to address those financial issues and was offered refinance that at the time it showed it 
could afford. Unfortunately, circumstances changed but when agreement had not been 
reached NatWest set out what the next stage would be. I think it was entitled to do so and 
explain that it would be asking F to re-bank.
I know the director of F will be disappointed when I say that I dont find NatWest acted 
unfairly.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman