DRN-1904906
 
The complaint
Mrs A is being represented in this complaint by her accountant. Shes complaining about 
Henderson Investment Funds Ltd (Henderson) because it didnt tell her how she could 
ensure her late husbands individual savings account (ISA) investments retained their tax-
efficient status following his death.
What happened
Mr A had ISA investments with Henderson. Sadly, he died in 2015. In 2016, Mrs A arranged 
for the investments to be transferred into her own name without the ISA status.
Mrs A has since become aware that changes to the rules before her husband passed away 
meant she should have been entitled to an additional permitted subscription (APS) that 
would have effectively allowed her to retain the tax-efficient status of the investments after 
they were transferred into her own name. Mrs A wasnt aware of this and she thinks 
Henderson should have told her about it at the time and/or made her adviser aware the 
investments had previously been held in an ISA when it subsequently enquired about 
transferring them away from Henderson.
Henderson didnt uphold the complaint. It essentially said an APS ISA wasnt a service it 
offered so it wasnt required to tell Mrs A about it. It said it could have provided an APS 
valuation for Mrs A when she was considering transferring the investments to another 
provider but wasnt asked to do so.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Henderson had acted 
appropriately and provided the information it was required to when Mrs A was enquiring 
about the value of the investments for probate purposes in 2015 and again in 2016 when her 
advisers made enquiries with a view to transferring them to another provider.
Mrs A didnt accept the investigators assessment. Her representative said Mrs A was elderly 
and her husband had always dealt with the family investments. She didnt have any 
experience or knowledge of ISA investments and their tax benefits and wasnt in the right 
frame of mind to deal with this situation anyway following his death. She relied on 
Henderson to advise her how to preserve the ISA benefit, but instead it incorrectly told her 
the tax efficient status was removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What happens to an ISA following the holders death is described on the gov.uk website as 
follows:
If your spouse or civil partner died from 3 December 2014 to 5 April 2018
Their ISA ended on the date of their death. ISA investments will form part of their 
estate for Inheritance Tax purposes.
Their ISA provider can be instructed to sell the investments and either:
pay the proceeds to the administrator or beneficiary of their estate
transfer the investments directly to them
You can inherit their ISA allowance. As well as your normal ISA allowance, you can 
add a tax-free amount up to the value they held in their ISA when they died.
So the default position was that on the holders death, the ISA ended and the provider could 
be instructed to either sell the investment and pay the proceeds to the beneficiary of the 
estate or transfer the investments to them. These were essentially the options Henderson 
set out in its letter to Mrs A dated 22 October 2015. She opted to transfer the investments 
into her own name and this was completed in 2016.
Rule changes that took effect earlier in 2015 meant Mrs A was entitled to apply for an APS 
that would effectively have meant she could transfer the investments into her own name and 
retain the ISA status and she had three years to do this. But its important to note that 
providers arent required to offer an APS ISA and Henderson has said it didnt offer this 
service. 
I understand the point made by Mrs As representative, but Henderson wasnt providing her 
with advice and there was no specific requirement for it to tell her about services it didnt 
offer that other providers might. Ive seen nothing to see that Mrs A asked about an APS in 
2015 and consequently, I cant reasonably say Henderson was at fault for not telling her.
Later in 2016, after the investments had been transferred into her own name, Mrs As 
adviser, Grosvenor Wealth Management (Grosvenor), contacted Henderson for information 
about her investments with a view to transferring them to another provider. She feels 
Henderson should have explained the investments had previously been held in ISAs to 
enable her to use the APS. 
In support of her complaint, Mrs A provided a copy of Grosvenors request for information 
dated 16 August 2016 and Ive reviewed this carefully. After doing so, I cant see that it 
asked whether the investments had previously been held in an ISA or anything else that 
should reasonably have led it to provide that information. Again, Henderson wasnt advising 
Mrs A and Im satisfied it met its obligations by answering the questions it was asked. I 
understand why Mrs A may now feel it should have provided more information, but there was 
no specific requirement for it to do so. 
I appreciate my decision will be a disappointment for Mrs A and isnt what she was hoping to 
hear. But ultimately, I think the information Henderson gave her, and subsequently her 
adviser, was correct as far as it went and was in line with what it was asked for. It wasnt 
responsible for providing her with advice. I appreciate it might have been helpful if 
Henderson had provided further information, particularly about the APS, but in the absence 
of any specific requirement to do that, I cant reasonably conclude it is at fault because she 
didnt benefit from it. I hope the explanation Ive provided at least helps Mrs A understand 
why Ive reached this decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2020.
 James Biles
Ombudsman