DRN-2610326
The complaint
This is a complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs B payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1992. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs B have said they were pressurised into taking the PPI and made to feel they had 
no option about it, if they wanted the mortgage. They say they didnt need the PPI because 
of their very good public-sector work benefits and unlikelihood theyd be made redundant. 
The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth having and it 
is clear the customer has a choice. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no 
real sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be 
sure exactly what was said. And, given that this was almost 30 years ago, I dont know how 
much I can fairly rely only on Mr and Mrs Bs recollections of what was said. 
As an example of the approach Lloyds took, Mr and Mrs B have sent me a copy of a leaflet 
about PPI they were sent and which said:
For peace of mind, every homeowner should have TSB MORTGAGESURE
Family security
Freedom from worry
Simple, regular payments
But I dont think that leaflet was unreasonable. Clearly it is marketing and is presenting the 
benefits of the PPI strongly. But I dont see that it is saying things that are untrue, nor that it 
is fear-mongering. It is true that, being unable to cover something as important as a 
mortgage, would be a worry for many people. But it isnt suggesting that customers have no 
choice about it. 
So I dont have strong-enough evidence to say Mr and Mrs B were not given a genuine 
choice about taking PPI. 
As I explain below, Ive looked to see whether there are other reasons the PPI might have 
been mis-sold  but having done so, I dont think they apply. 
I think Lloyds Bank PLC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, and this means we would 
judge its sales process by a higher standard  it had to make sure the PPI was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Bs particular circumstances. However, it looks to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and 
Mrs Bs situation at the time: 
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mr and Mrs B were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to 
make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs B received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs B would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have 
had for paying the mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mr and 
Mrs B in a more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term 
sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest Mr and Mrs B couldnt afford the PPI when 
they took it out; so it wasnt unsuitable in that way. And they could have cancelled the 
policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs B would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI would have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs B to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI (assuming they felt they had a choice  which I 
accept they are saying they didnt).
From what Mr and Mrs B have said, it seems they understood how much the PPI would cost. 
Its possible Lloyds Bank PLC didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would have been affected by any of these. 
So, overall, Ive not found a reason to say the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman