DRN-3726672
The complaint
Miss H complains about the advice given by Grove Pension Solutions Limited (Grove) to 
transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has caused 
a financial loss.
What happened
Miss H approached Grove in 2017 to discuss her pension and retirement needs. I 
understand Miss H completed an online questionnaire and then she and Grove spoke on the 
telephone. Grove completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Hs circumstances 
and objectives as part of this process. Some of the information gathered about her 
circumstances was: 
She was 56 years old and she was living with her partner. They had no dependents.
She was retired due to ill-health and had an income of £3,900 a year from a pension   
in payment.
Miss H had some health problems, I wont detail these here as they are known to 
both parties to the complaint. 
Miss H and her partners total household income was £767 a month. They were 
recorded as spending slightly over this again each month. 
They jointly owned a property valued at £200,000, it had a modest mortgage that had 
six years left to run. 
They had had no savings or investments.
Miss H had two periods of DB scheme entitlement within the same scheme. These are as 
follows:
Period one relates to service up to April 1995. It had a normal retirement age of 60 
and it provided a pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) of £10,399.20 and 
annual pension of £3,466.40 a year. A cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) for this 
was £76,456.41.
Period two relates to service after this and up to November 2000. The benefits at age 
60 were a PCLS of £2,255.24 and an annual pension of £751.75 a year. The CETV 
for this pension was £16,493.28.
Miss H also had a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution (FSAVC) account with a 
value of £1,648.58.  
Grove also carried out an assessment of Miss Hs attitude to risk, which it said was cautious 
/ medium. 
In January 2018 Grove advised Miss H to transfer her DB scheme pension benefits, and her 
existing FSAVC, into a personal pension. She invested the proceeds with Royal London 
equally in its Defensive Managed and Managed Funds. The suitability report said the 
reasons for this recommendation were:
She intended to take a retirement income at age 67 and she wanted a minimum 
income of £800 a month.
She needed a medical procedure, but this could not be completed on the NHS in a 
reasonable time. So, she wanted to get this done privately at a cost of £10,000
Miss H wanted to obtain the maximum tax-free cash sum available for her medical 
procedure and use the balance to clear some of her mortgage and reduce their 
outgoings.
Miss H complained in May 2021 to Grove about the suitability of the transfer advice. Her 
representative said the advice was negligent and had she had lost money due to it. It had 
more risk than was suitable for her as she had no investment experience, a cautious attitude 
to risk and a low capacity for loss. She could not afford to risk her pension. 
Grove didnt uphold Miss Hs complaint. It said the advice was correct and the appropriate 
level of care and consideration was taken. The documentation reflects the discussions that 
took place at the time of sale. 
Miss H referred her complaint to our service. An investigator upheld the complaint and 
recommended that Grove pay compensation. He said that the transfer was not financially 
viable as Miss H would not be able to receive the investment returns needed. And there was 
no urgency, or pressing need, for her to take her benefits. He didnt think that her need for a 
medical procedure was enough of a reason to give up her DB scheme benefits. Miss H had 
not used the pension money for this medical procedure. 
Grove disagreed, saying:
The transfer was suitable for Miss H as she needed the medical procedure to 
improve her life, and she also wanted to repay some debt. She had no other means 
of doing this. 
It was explained to Miss H that the transfer would significantly reduce her retirement 
income and that this was an expensive way to raise funds. Miss H understood this, 
but she agreed to go ahead as she wanted the money. 
The investigator said that some alternatives were not discussed with Mrs H, but 
Grove gave advice on what Mrs H said were her objectives. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Grove's actions here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Grove should 
have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Miss Hs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it 
was in her best interests.
Financial viability 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
The critical yield required to match Miss Hs pension benefits at age 60 for the first period of 
DB scheme membership was 26.39%. If she took the maximum tax-free cash and a reduced 
pension this fell to 22.04%. Similar amounts for the second period were 28.34% and 
24.25%. 
The closest discount rate to the time of this transfer which I'm able to refer to was published 
for the period before 1 October 2017, and is 2.8% per year for three years to the scheme 
retirement. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection rates had also remained 
unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle 
projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Miss H's attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. I think Miss H was likely to receive 
benefits of a materially lower overall value than the occupational scheme at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. 
And I accept that the point-of-sale documentation does say this. Amongst other things it tells 
Miss H that this is a very expensive way to raise money and that this decision could cost her around £47,000 by age 87. So, the advice was given on the basis that the DB transfer would 
materially reduce Miss Hs retirement income. 
So, as a starting point this indicates that a transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt in Miss Hs 
best interests. But financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. 
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. 
Grove has said the transfer was made on the basis that Mrs H had a real need for the tax-
free cash in the short term. Ive considered this below.
Flexibility and income needs
The advice was given on the basis that Miss H needed the tax-free cash that the DB scheme 
transfer, and the transfer of the FSAVC, would release. And I dont doubt that Miss H wanted 
to undertake a medical procedure at the time and that this would have real advantages to 
her. But what Im not persuaded about is that she was able to do this immediately or that 
other means of funding it were fully explored. 
Its worth re-emphasising that the transfer of the DB scheme benefits would have significant 
financial consequences for Miss H. She was likely to be worse off in retirement. Added to 
this she and her partner was currently unable to work and its fair to say money was tight for 
them. And this was her main pension provision above the state pension. So, this was a very 
important decision that would have far reaching consequences for her.
I dont think its certain that Miss H needed the funds immediately. Its not clear that she 
could have the medical procedure in the near future. And its also not clear if she had a firm 
plan to do this. And its likely she would need the pension income from the DB scheme, 
which would be significantly reduced. So, if there wasnt a reasonable prospect of her having 
the procedure in the very near future then she shouldnt have transferred. 
And I dont think that all of the options Miss H may have had to do this were properly 
explored. In this situation I would have expected a number of other things to be looked at in 
detail. For example, Miss H may have been able to borrow in some form, or take her scheme 
benefits earlier due to her situation. I appreciate that Grove now says that these were 
considered but the point of sale documentation doesnt show this was done in any detail. 
And Miss Hs normal retirement date from the scheme was only three years away. Even if 
she didnt want to borrow over the longer term she maybe could done this over a shorter 
period and used the DB schemes PCLS to repay it. Again, this doesnt seem to have been 
looked at, other than superficially. 
So, overall, Im not persuaded that Miss H required flexibility in retirement. This is because 
based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think she had a genuine need to access her tax-free 
cash earlier than the normal scheme retirement age and leave her funds invested until a 
later date. 
I also cant see evidence that Miss H had a strong need for variable income throughout her 
retirement. This doesnt seem to have been discussed. In fact Miss Hs actual retirement 
needs dont seem to have been addressed in any detail. I havent seen any consideration of 
her likely income or expenditure. Its not clear to me how Grove could have properly advised 
her about her retirement options without doing this. 
Death benefitsDeath benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. It was noted on the suitability letter that 
Miss H would like any lump sum to go to her partner. And information about the differences 
between how dependent benefits worked for both the DB scheme and the personal pension 
was provided in this letter. 
I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, and Miss H might have thought it 
was a good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this. The lump 
sum death benefits on offer through a personal pension might have been an attractive 
feature to Miss H. 
But, the priority here was to advise Miss H about what was best for her retirement 
provisions. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think 
Grove explored to what extent Miss H was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for higher death benefits.
And as far as I know, her partner wasnt dependent on her, and death benefits werent a 
material part of the advice. The reference to this seemed to be a want rather than a need. So 
I dont think transferring the pension to improve the death benefits was in Miss Hs best 
interests.  
Suitability of investments
Grove recommended that Miss H invest in two managed funds. Miss H has said that these 
had more risk than she wanted to take. As Im upholding the complaint on the grounds that a 
transfer out of the DB scheme wasnt suitable for Miss H, it follows that I dont need to 
consider the suitability of the investment recommendation. This is because Miss H should 
have been advised to remain in the DB scheme and so the investments in the managed 
funds wouldnt have arisen if suitable advice had been given.
Transfer of the FSAVC
I have also considered the suitability of this recommendation to transfer the FSAVC. As our 
investigator said there was no reason to transfer this as Miss H could have taken the 
benefits from this plan or left it as it was. And so, she didnt need to incur the costs of the 
transfer. Because of this, it wasnt in her best interests to make this transfer. 
Summary
I dont doubt that the ability to access some cash straight away would have sounded like an 
attractive feature to Miss H. But Grove wasnt there to just transact what Miss H might have 
thought she wanted. The advisers role was to really understand what Miss H needed and 
recommend what was in her best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Miss H was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Miss H was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and in my view, there were no other pressing reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this.  Miss H shouldnt have been advised to transfer out of 
the scheme just to access the cash, even if it was to be used to pay for this medical 
procedure. Whilst this wasnt entirely relevant to the advice given its worth noting that 
Miss H didnt use the tax-free cash she released for this reason. Im not persuaded this was 
worth giving up the guarantees associated with her DB scheme.
So, I think Grove shouldve advised Miss H to remain in her DB scheme.Of course, I have to consider whether Miss H would've gone ahead anyway, against Grove's 
advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Miss H wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Groves advice. I say this because Miss H was an 
inexperienced investor with a lower attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the 
majority of Miss Hs retirement provision. So, if Grove had provided her with clear advice 
against transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining in more detail why it wasnt in her best 
interests, and what her alternatives were, I think she wouldve accepted that advice.
Im not persuaded that Miss Hs aim to access her tax-free cash was so great that she 
wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise she 
had sought out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for her or in her best interests. 
If Grove had explored how Miss H could meet her objectives without risking her guaranteed 
pension, I think that wouldve carried significant weight. And, I dont think Miss H would have 
insisted on transferring out of the DB scheme.
In light of the above, I think Grove should compensate Miss H for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress. 
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Miss H whether she preferred any redress to be calculated now in 
line with current guidance or to wait for the any new guidance/rules to be published. Shes 
said she would like to wait for the outcome of the consultation before her complaint is 
settled. I consider its fair that Grove waits for the outcome of the consultation to settle this 
complaint.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Miss H, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider she would 
have remained in the occupational scheme and the FSAVC. 
The basic objective of the proposed amendments to the redress methodology still remains to 
put a consumer, as far as possible, into the position they would be in if the business had 
advised them to remain in the DB scheme. Having reviewed the FCAs consultation and its 
proposed updates to the DB transfer redress methodology, Im satisfied that the proposed 
changes will, if ultimately implemented, still reflect a fair way to compensate Miss H.I therefore dont consider it necessary for me to wait for any new guidance/rules to come into 
effect to determine this complaint. 
Grove must undertake a redress calculation in line with the updated methodology as soon as 
any new rules and/or guidance come into effect (rather than to calculate and pay any due 
compensation now in line with FG17/9).  
For clarity, Miss H had retired at the time and she would have been able to take the benefits 
from the DB scheme at her age 60. So, compensation should be based on her normal 
scheme retirement age of age 60, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to 
an appropriate provider promptly once any new guidance/rules come into effect.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Miss Hs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow 
for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have 
been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income 
tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation amount must where possible be paid to Miss H within 90 days of the date 
any changes to DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect and Grove has 
received notification of Miss Hs acceptance of my decision. Further interest must be added 
to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date any changes to 
DB transfer redress guidance or new rules come into effect to the date of settlement for any 
time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Grove to pay Miss H.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited to pay Miss H the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up 
to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Grove Pension Solutions Limited to pay Miss H any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Grove 
Pension Solutions Limited to pay Miss H any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Grove Pension Solutions Limited pays Miss H the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Miss H.
If Miss H accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Grove Pension 
Solutions Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Miss H can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Miss H may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman