DRN-3494143
The complaint
Mr T complains that Ageas Insurance Limited only offered to pay a limited amount of costs 
rather than the full policy amount under a Family Plus legal expenses insurance cover. Hes 
also unhappy that Ageas refuses to pay appeal costs.
Mr T is represented by a solicitor. References to Ageas include action of its agents in 
handling Mr Ts claim.
What happened
Mr T issued proceedings in the Employment Tribunal and appointed his own solicitor and 
barrister to act on his behalf. There was also a second claimant to the action who the same 
solicitor and barrister acted for as it was heard as one case. It was several months later that 
he approached Ageas to make a claim.
His solicitor billed legal costs (including the barrister) of more than £60,000 but Ageas 
offered £22,132.42 after consulting a costs lawyer, which the solicitor rejected.
Mr T couldnt accept Ageas insistence that another party in the litigation pay 50% of the 
costs when dozens of other people in a similar position to him relied on the outcome relied 
on the outcome. He says the policy doesnt say Ageas is only responsible for paying 50%. 
He wants all costs paid at an hourly rate of £320 +VAT.
Ageas has dealt with two complaints from Mr T answered in separate final responses. While 
there was an initial issue about one complaint being made out of time, Ageas confirmed that 
we could look at it nonetheless. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
In summary, he explained:
A later complaint about being mis-sold the policy was something that would need to 
be dealt with separately as Mr T hadnt raised this issue previously to Ageas.
He didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong in having costs assessed, particularly 
as it was Mr Ts solicitors suggestion that such services were sought as they were 
not happy with the hourly rate being offered and the commencement date. 
It was clear from the costs assessment that Mr Ts solicitor was working not just for 
Mr T but also another client on the same case. There was also an issue that the case 
would influence other claims for others in Mr Ts position (related to his occupation). 
The investigator noted the costs draftsman was alarmed that while the solicitor was 
acting for two clients 100% of the costs billed were laid at Ageas to cover. 
As the policy only covered Mr Ts fees, he thought it fair Ageas relied on the costs 
draftsman and only pay half the costs. He also thought it relevant that the costs 
draftsman had highlighted some questionable charges with the solicitor charging 
excessive amounts for time spent on a witness statement and for automatic replies 
and emails sent to herself. He concluded that if Mr T wanted to instruct another 
draftsman, hed expect Ageas to review any such report.
He noted the policy didnt cover matters where a client is not deemed an employee, 
Mr Ts solicitor hadnt signed and returned terms of agreement, and there was a 
failure to notify Ageas of any intention to appeal in line with the policy terms. He 
didnt think Ageas had delayed matters as it had tried to negotiate an hourly rate, the 
solicitor hadnt signed terms of appointment and Ageas made reasonable enquiries.
Mr Ts solicitor on his behalf disagreed with the investigators opinion, raising several points 
including:
The claim commencement date.
Whether it was for Ageas to say it wouldnt pay costs before written acceptance of 
the claim.
Or whether £267 +VAT was a fair hourly rate.
Or whether it was fair for Ageas to say it wasnt told about appeal costs.
The essence is about mis-selling and enough information was provided to the 
investigator to investigate this as Mr T wasnt alerted to the fact that Ageas would 
only pay a portion of legal fees (here 50%).
The costs lawyer didnt do a proper assessment and theres no mechanism provided 
by Ageas to challenge this.
Ageas has breached regulations and case law and irrespective that the solicitor 
represented two claimants, all work done on the employment status issue would 
have been done in any event. So, its not the case that its double the cost.
There has been delay as the claim was lodged in 2017 with the Tribunal and costs 
are still not resolved.
The investigator issued a further opinion, which in summary said:
There was nothing that entitled Mr T to unlimited costs and its a condition of the 
policy that his chosen solicitor agrees to Ageas terms of appointment.
Ageas had offered a rate of £267 (in keeping with a Grade A in London 3 area court 
guidelines) and it was fair that it wasnt based on his chosen solicitors office location. 
And as Mr Ts solicitor didnt agree to terms of agreement Ageas approach was fair. 
The commencement date was relevant in so far as legal costs incurred before Ageas 
had accepted the claim in writing were excluded from cover. As Mr T continued 
without written acceptance, and the solicitors refusal to agree terms combined it was 
fair to restrict payments.
Ageas based the cover date in late August 2018 which was when it had advised Mr T 
to revert once employment status had been confirmed. The investigator thought this 
was fair.
Mis-selling wasnt an underlying issue rather it was hourly rate and freedom of choice 
 if Mr T does indeed want to raise this as a complaint, hes been directed to do so 
with the seller in the first instance. 
His original thoughts on the costs draftsmans involvement remained unadjusted. Ageas approach was fair in considering what the draftsman had said and paying a 
proportion of the fees for Mr T as the insured.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of Mr Ts complaint concerns his unhappiness at the fact Ageas would only cover a 
proportion of the legal costs hes apparently incurred in his Employment Tribunal litigation. 
And hes unhappy that Ageas has left him with a massive shortfall. I disagree with his 
solicitor that the underlying dispute is about mis-selling. The complaint is about how the 
policy has responded in Mr Ts claim and thats what Ill consider.
The issues Ill consider in this decision are as follows:
Policy coverage
Commencement date and period of indemnity
Reduced costs because of second claimant and appeal costs
Delay
Policy coverage
In brief, Mr Ts policy covers him for legal costs (as defined in the policy) in specified 
circumstances and his claim was considered under the Employment Disputes section. The 
policy is clear that such costs may only be incurred with Ageas prior consent and accepting 
the claim. Other relevant policy conditions include the freedom to choose a lawyer and if said 
lawyer cant agree to Ageas terms of business no indemnity will be provided. Appeal costs 
can be covered provided Mr T confirms in writing he wishes to appeal, and Ageas considers 
there are prospects of success.
Commencement date and period of indemnity
Ageas said it would provide cover from a date in late August 2018 through to a date in 
January 2019. And this was on the discreet issue of whether Mr T had employee status. The 
relevance of employee status is important because from the outset he was originally put 
forward as self-employed which doesnt attract cover under the policy. So, Ageas said it 
would, in principle and subject to terms being agreed with the solicitor, offer cover on the 
issue of employee status. If that wasnt found in Mr Ts favour cover would cease. Im 
satisfied this was a fair approach for Ageas to take and it communicated this clearly to the 
solicitor  if Mr T wasnt classed as an employee then he wouldnt benefit from cover. And 
the dates were fair given the claim wasnt made until August and the Tribunal ruled against 
Mr T in the January.
Reduced costs because of second claimant and appeal costs
The starting point is that information from the solicitor to Ageas in August 2018 revealed part 
of the case centred on whether Mr T was an employee and that his claim had been joined 
with another (as a lead group claim). Its apparent from the Tribunal papers that Mr Ts 
solicitor and barrister represented both claimants and each claimant was required to submit 
schedules of losses. Other documentation shows each claimant made separate 
representations for the purposes of the Tribunal and indeed a joint witness statement.Ageas made it clear to the solicitor in August 2018 that the policy would only cover claims in 
the Employment Tribunal where the claimant (Mr T) status is that of an employee. And if that 
status is confirmed then Ageas would review funding on receipt of a Case Management 
Form. In October Ageas confirmed it would agree funding for the establishment of whether 
Mr T was an employee once satisfied Terms of Appointment should be sent to the solicitor. 
By this time around £20,000 of legal costs had accrued. Terms of Appointment were sent to 
the solicitor and it was confirmed an hourly rate of £267 +VAT would be paid, counsel fees 
for the preliminary hearing would be covered but nothing else until signed terms had been 
returned.
Given that significant legal costs were incurred without prior approval, an appeal was lodged 
without notification to Ageas and Mr Ts solicitor failed to agree any terms with Ageas, the 
claim could potentially have been refused in its entirety. In considering whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances, notwithstanding the solicitors refusal to agree terms, I 
note Ageas made an offer on an hourly rate at a Grade A fee earner in the area of the 
relevant Tribunal and where Mr T resided. Ageas factored in the complexity of the case and 
the draftsman considered this a fair rate. Im not persuaded by the argument that the 
solicitors location should dictate the rate, nor that the offered £267 +VAT per hour rendered 
freedom of choice meaningless.
A Costs Lawyer independent of Ageas reviewed the solicitors billing. They did so based on 
the period Ageas was willing to cover in so far as establishing the employee status. Several 
concerns were raised about the level of fees the solicitor had submitted, including:
The solicitor represented a second claimant on the same case but appeared to bill all 
time against Mr T, and claimed this from Ageas.
Costs had been consolidated onto a single billing guide but should be apportioned 
between both claimants. 
Excessive time on witness statements (13.5 hours on a 4-page statement)
Billing for incoming routine email including those for automatic replies and delivery 
receipts
As the only independent evidence on the assessment of costs I find it persuasive as to 
whether Ageas has offered a fair amount in relation to Mr Ts claim. The hourly rate is 
reasoned; the apportionment principle is reasonable and proportionate as its noted the other 
claimant who the solicitor and barrister acted for is not an insured party under Mr Ts policy.
Ageas made it clear that cover was only in place for the establishment of whether Mr T had 
employee status. The Tribunal did not rule in Mr Ts favour, so Im satisfied Ageas acted 
reasonably by ending cover at that point. And equally, Ive not seen persuasive evidence 
that Ageas should backdate cover to the outset of the solicitors involvement in 2017. Ageas 
restricted cover to the issue and establishment of employee status as thats what the policy 
might cover at the point of notification. Significant costs had already been incurred by the 
time Mr T informed Ageas of a potential claim (so without prior consent) and it was at this 
point the solicitor said there were reasonable prospects of success (a policy requirement). 
On the appeal costs issue there seems no apparent reason why the solicitor or Mr T failed to 
notify Ageas of the intention to appeal. Legal costs for an appeal are only covered provided 
Ageas is notified in writing of an intention to appeal within the time limits for an Appeal and 
Ageas considers the prospects of success are at least 51%. Not only was the policy 
requirement not complied with, but the Tribunal had confirmed Mr T did not have employee 
status. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair for me at this point to say Ageas has acted unfairly or done anything contrary to the policy.   
Delay
While the claim appears to have gone on for some time, Im not persuaded that Ageas has 
presided over and should be held responsible for any delay. As clients must engage with 
and work with their lawyers to move things forward, the same can reasonably be said where 
policyholders and their appointed lawyers are seeking indemnity under a legal expenses 
policy. In fact, Mr Ts policy has conditions relating to these matters yet as has been said 
Mr Ts solicitor refused to agree terms offered by Ageas.
Mr T isnt entitled to unlimited costs and Ageas is entitled to make enquiries about the claim, 
consider whether it meets the terms of the policy and cant be expected to just pay whatever 
is asked, whenever its asked and without question. Im satisfied Ageas enquiries and 
handling were fair, reasonable, and proportionate in all the circumstances of Mr Ts claim.
Summary
Im not persuaded Ageas has acted contrary to the insurance policy.
Im satisfied Ageas offer of more than £22,000 for legal costs is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
If Mr T obtains his own costs assessment, Id expect Ageas to consider it.
If Mr T wishes to pursue a complaint against the seller of the policy he will need to 
initiate that himself with that business.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman