DRN-3909195
The complaint
Mr A complains about Barclays Bank UK PLC.
He says that Barclays didnt do enough to protect him when he became the victim of a scam 
and would like Barclays to refund him the money he has lost.
What happened
In February 2022, Mr As wife saw a post on an Instagram account of a beauty influencer 
that she followed offering a lucrative investment opportunity in cryptocurrency.
Mrs As wife believed that the opportunity was genuine as she had purchased beauty 
products from this influencer previously and had online conversations through Instagram. 
However, this was not the case, and a scammer had taken over the Instagram account.
Mrs As wife was then contacted by the scammer (who she still believed to be the genuine 
account holder). The scammer explained how the investment opportunity worked and told 
her that she could make a profit in one day.
Mr A then took over correspondence with the scammer and was persuaded to invest. 
However, before he could make a withdrawal from his supposed profit, the scammer asked 
him for more money as his account needed to be upgraded due to the high balance  and 
then more money again to obtain a pin. Finally, the scammer then told Mr A that he needed 
to pay commission, which Mr A did.
The scammer then kept making excuses as to why the withdrawal was unsuccessful, and 
Mr A came to the realisation that he had been scammed.
Mr A complained to Barclays, but it didnt uphold his complaint. So he brought his complaint 
to this Service.
Our Investigator looked into things but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr A asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint, so it has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for broadly the same reasons as 
our Investigator. I know that this will be disappointing for Mr A, so Ill explain why.
Was Mr A the victim of a scam?
I dont think that it is in dispute here that Mr A has been the victim of a scam  it appears that 
the scammer took over control of a genuine Instagram account and was using this to try and 
trick followers into paying into the scam. 
Did Mr A authorise the payments?
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Mr A isnt liable for payments 
he didnt authorise, unless he failed with gross negligence or intent to comply with the terms 
of the account or keep his personalised security details safe. Accordingly, Ive considered 
whether Mr A authorised the payments in question here.
Having done so, Im satisfied that Mr A did authorise the payments. They were made by him 
using his debit card. I understand that Mr A had been tricked by the scammer into instructing 
Barclays to make the payments  but while Mr A never intended the payments to go to the 
scammers, this doesnt change the fact that he authorised them and is therefore presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance.
Recovery of the payments Mr A made
After the payments were made, I wouldnt reasonably expect Barclays to do anything further 
until it had been notified there was a scam. Mr A made a total of four payments as part of the 
scam, all by debit card.
The only recourse for potential recovery of the funds for the payments made by debit card 
would be via the chargeback scheme. Chargeback is a process by which disputes are 
resolved between card issuers (here, Barclays) and the merchant (here, C and M).
However, a chargeback in these circumstances would likely never have been successful. 
This is because C and M are legitimate crypto exchanges and provided the services that Mr 
A had requested of them  the purchase of crypto. The subsequent transfer of the crypto to 
a different wallet is therefore a separate matter  and so a successful chargeback would 
likely never have been possible  and so I dont think that these payments were recoverable 
once they had been made.
Should Barclays have reasonably prevented the payments in the first place?
I can only uphold this complaint if I think that Barclays reasonably ought to have prevented 
some or all the payments Mr A made in the first place  therefore preventing the loss before 
it happened.
Mr A authorised the scam payments in question here  so as Ive explained above, he is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. However, there is a 
balance to be struck: banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and scams and to 
act in their customers best interests, but they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction.
Taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider having been good industry practice at the time, I consider
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:Been monitoring accounts  including payments made and received  to counter 
various risks including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, Ive carefully considered what this means for Mr A and the payments in question here.
Having reviewed Mr As account, Im not persuaded that Barclays should have become 
involved at any point when he was making the payments. I say this because as Ive 
explained above, there is a balance to be struck. Ive reviewed Mr As account transactions 
and activity and I dont think that the payments he made are sufficiently unusual or 
uncharacteristic to have triggered Barclays into taking extra steps before processing Mr As 
payment instructions.
I understand that Mr A believes that Barclays should have intervened when he made the 
payment of £4,500  however while this payment was larger than his day to day spend, I am 
still not persuaded that Barclays needed to get in touch with him about it as Mr A had made 
payments of a similar size previously.
I also understand that Mr A says he contacted Barclays when he made the first payment and 
that he provided information to Barclays, saying that he was paying C  a crypto exchange. 
Mr A says that he wanted to make sure that Barclays didnt block the payment as he had 
issues previously. He says that Barclays should have questioned him in light of the 
information he gave to it.
But I disagree. As I have explained above, there was no reason that Barclays should have 
intervened with the payments Mr A was making  so it was under no obligation to provide 
him with any more information than what he asked for during the call, which was to check 
that the payment had been successful.
I do have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr A finds himself in. He has been the 
victim of a cruel scam and has lost a significant amount of money as a result of this. 
However, the loss suffered was ultimately caused by the scammers themselves, not 
Barclays. And I cant ask Barclays to refund the money lost when I dont think that it has 
done anything wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman