DRN-1406389
The complaint
This complaint has been brought on Mr Gs behalf by Mr B. The complaint is that Bank of 
Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has overcharged Mr G interest on his mortgage account 
because it has applied interest at its standard variable rate (SVR) rather than at the Bank of 
England Base Rate (BEBR).
To settle the complaint, Mr B wants Halifax to put Mr Gs mortgage onto BEBR and to 
reimburse him for what he says is the overcharged amount of interest due to being on 
Halifaxs SVR.
What happened
In 2009 Mr G took out a mortgage with Halifax, after taking advice from a mortgage broker. 
He borrowed £201,450 over a term of 30 years on a capital repayment basis., at an initial 
fixed rate of 6.640% until 30 November 2011. The mortgage offer says that thereafter:
  your loan reverts to Halifax standard variable rate, currently 3.500%, after 
30/11/2011 until the end of the term.
Halifax standard variable rate is the base rate which applies to this mortgage
The relevant parts of the terms and conditions which apply to this mortgage say:
In this booklet we have put some words in bold type because they have a special 
meaning. We tell you what these words mean below
Added rate  Any rate of interest we add to the base rate. We may change this 
under condition 6.
Base rate  The base rate of interest set out in the offer or in any extra agreement 
or flexible options agreement. We may specify a particular base rate for a 
particular type of loan (for example, any loan we make with flexible options). We 
may change this rate of interest under condition 6
Condition 6 says: 
6.12 We may change the interest rate by changing the base rate or any added 
rate
Since 30 November 2011 the mortgage has been at Halifaxs SVR, currently 3.74%, or 
3.49% above BEBR.
In 2019 Mr B contacted Halifax on behalf of Mr G to raise a complaint. Mr B said that he 
thought that since 2011 interest on Mr Gs mortgage should have been applied at BEBR. 
Mr B wanted Halifax to reimburse Mr G for interest hed paid over and above BEBR.
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. The bank explained that its SVR was not the same as 
BEBR and that reference in the mortgage offer to base rate did not mean BEBR.
Dissatisfied with Halifaxs response, Mr B raised the complaint with the Financial 
Ombudsman Service on behalf of Mr G. Initially Halifax didnt consent to us looking at the 
complaint, saying that the mortgage had reverted to SVR on 30 November 2011 and so 
Mr G would, or should, have known he had cause to complain within six years of that date if 
he thought the interest rate was incorrect.
Initially the investigator agreed with Halifax that the complaint was out of time. But after 
reviewing further information from the parties, she was satisfied that we could consider 
whether interest had been incorrectly applied during the six-year period before the complaint 
was first raised with Halifax. This appears to have been on 11 June 2019, so the period runs 
from 11 June 2013.
The investigator considered whether interest had been incorrectly applied since 11 June 
2013 and was satisfied that Halifax hadnt made any error. She explained to Mr B that the 
base rate referred to in the mortgage offer was not BEBR.
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. In support of his 
request for a review of the complaint, Mr B has reiterated all the points and arguments made 
to the investigator. In particular, Mr B has said (and I summarise):
At no point does Halifax ever say that where it refers to base rate it is not using it as the 
standard abbreviation for the BEBR and in fact Halifax always says that base rate is an 
abbreviation for BEBR.
Condition 6 does not allow Halifax to increase its base rate if the Bank of England 
doesnt increase BEBR, and Halifax cannot apply an added rate unless it has agreed 
and stated what that is in the mortgage agreement, or if there is a change of use of the 
property.
Halifax has confirmed the definition of base rate which it says is the BEBR which 
lenders use as a guide for lending and can add to it or reduce it.
Mr G should receive compensation for the difference between BEBR and Halifaxs SVR, 
plus interest, and his mortgage should be put onto BEBR for the remainder of the term, 
or, alternatively, Halifax should pay him compensation for his future losses if his 
mortgage is not put onto BEBR.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The evidence in the case is detailed, running to several hundred pages of documents and 
various telephone recordings and a video. Ive considered everything thats been provided 
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplicated documents and repetition of arguments. In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised events in rather less detail than has been 
presented.
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint. This approach is consistent with what our 
enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a 
fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by matters which, although presented as 
material, are, in my opinion peripheral or, in some instances, have little or no impact on the 
broader outcome.
I appreciate the detail with which Mr B has submitted Mr Gs complaint and I would like to 
thank him for his efforts on behalf of Mr G. But as I said above, I am entitled to concentrate 
on what I consider to be the salient issues in this complaint, and this is what I have done.
Before I look at the specifics of Mr Gs complaint, I think it would be helpful to explain the 
extent of my role and to make some general observations about the extent of my powers. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service isnt the regulator of financial businesses  thats the role 
of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). I have no power to tell Halifax  or indeed any 
other lender  what interest rates it should charge on its products. Thats a matter for Halifax 
to determine, in line with FCA guidelines and Prudential Regulatory Authority, Bank of 
England and Treasury policy. 
In addition, the correct legal interpretation of contractual terms in a mortgage contract 
(including the ancillary terms and conditions) is an issue for the FCA and the courts  not the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to 
determine the law, or to decide the contractual terms which should apply to Halifaxs 
mortgage contracts. Although Im required to take account of the law, the overarching 
principle I am required to follow, pursuant to the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, is 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
I have also noted that Mr B has placed reliance on another complaint against a different 
lender about a similar issue which he says supports Mr Gs case. But I am required to review 
this complaint on the basis of the arguments and evidence in relation to Mr Gs specific 
mortgage account with Halifax, not any other lender. So although I appreciate the trouble 
Mr B has gone to in raising arguments about a different case, it is not relevant to Mr Gs 
complaint against Halifax.
The issue in this case is very simple: is Mr G being charged the incorrect rate of interest by 
Halifax? 
First, I agree with the investigator that we can only consider the application of interest to the 
mortgage account from 11 June 2013 onwards, which is six years before the complaint was 
first raised with Halifax. There are no exceptional circumstances that would allow me to 
waive the time limits that apply here.
Like most lenders, Halifax has a range of fixed rate interest products on offer from time to 
time, and an SVR, which is the rate it charges by default when an existing product comes to 
its end date and isnt immediately replaced by another. The fixed rate deals typically are for 
two, three or five years (very occasionally, longer deals are available) and the rates on offer vary periodically, as does the SVR, to reflect the general trend in interest rates across the 
economy as a whole. 
The BEBR is one of the primary influences on lenders rates, but with one exception, the link 
isnt direct. The exception is in the case of tracker products where it is an express condition 
of the deal that the rate charged will move exactly in line with movements in BEBR (or 
another variable rate as specified). Tracker products aside, BEBR is merely an influencer of 
the general direction of rates. Mr Gs mortgage is not on a tracker product.
Im satisfied that the mortgage paperwork makes it clear that Mr Gs mortgage contract is 
based  after the expiry of a fixed rate  on an interest rate that can vary from time to time. 
The rate is described as variable and the offer says that it is a rate than can go up and 
down, and I think Mr G understood that. In my experience of the mortgage market, Mr Gs 
mortgage was typical of what was available then and since. 
Theres nothing in the loan documentation Ive seen that suggests that the SVR is a tracker 
rate, or that it has any direct link to BEBR. The terms and conditions (2007) set out how and 
when the rate could be changed by Halifax. The terms are reasonably broadly drawn, and 
give Halifax scope to decide how and when it changes the interest rate, in line with standard 
industry practice. But Im satisfied there is nothing in either the mortgage offer or the terms 
and conditions to say that SVR is the same as BEBR.
I appreciate Mr B is placing reliance on a telephone conversation where, he says, Halifax 
confirmed that its base rate was BEBR. Im afraid I dont agree with Mr Bs interpretation of 
this conversation; I think Halifaxs response was asked in, and responded to, out of context 
to the issue Mr G is complaining about. So I dont attach the weight to it that Mr B does. 
In all the circumstances, I find that Halifax has not treated Mr G unfairly in charging him its 
SVR, in line with other customers on the same rate. 
As I said at the outset, Im not a regulator, and I have no power to tell Halifax what its 
interest rates should be or to fix the rate it should charge for SVR. All I can consider here is 
whether Halifax has charged Mr G more interest that the contract between them allows it to. 
In other words, should Halifax be required put in place a bespoke SVR for Mr G, on the basis 
that Mr B has argued that SVR is actually the same as BEBR? After reviewing the 
documentation, I am satisfied that Halifax is under no obligation to change the SVR to BEBR 
specifically for Mr G, as BEBR is not the interest rate which applies to this mortgage. 
I know how strongly Mr B feels about this, but having considered everything he and Halifax 
have said and provided, I am satisfied that Halifax has not done anything wrong in its 
application of SVR to this mortgage, nor has it over-charged Mr G. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr G and Mr B were hoping for. If Mr G rejects my 
decision, it will not be legally binding on him or Halifax and he will be free to pursue his 
grievances against the bank in court. I would suggest Mr G takes some advice from a 
qualified solicitor before embarking on any legal proceedings.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman