DRN-3866865
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB) didnt offer him a lower interest rate on 
his mortgage sooner. He says TMB recently changing his rate showed they could have done 
that before, and undermines what the lender previously told him about not being able to. 
What happened
Mr K has had a mortgage with TMB since 2003. Initially it was taken out on a buy-to-let 
basis, through a broker, but was switched to a residential mortgage in 2004. A tracker rate 
was taken by Mr K in 2006, which expired in 2011  so the mortgage moved onto the 
Standard Variable Rate (SVR). While the tracker rate was in force, TMB made the 
commercial decision to stop accepting any new business. That meant, with effect from 2010, 
existing customers were no longer able to apply for a product transfer to change their rate  
and the notes suggest this was discussed with Mr K at the time. TMB later introduced a 
process, in 2014, to allow its customers to re-mortgage to another lender in the same 
banking group under reduced lending criteria. For a while there were significant arrears on 
the account, which would have prevented the mortgage moving over to the new lender  but 
they were capitalised in 2016.
Mr K complained that his mortgage had been the wrong type at the start, and TMB hadnt 
adjusted the interest rate after it was switched to residential. TMB sent its final response 
regarding those issues in 2015. The letter said Mr Ks mortgage had been arranged through 
a broker, so it wasnt responsible for how it was first set up. TMB also said it could see from 
its system that his mortgage was switched to a lower residential rate with effect from October 
2004. It sent Mr K a copy of a letter from the time, which said the changes to his rate and 
mortgage type had been applied after it became aware he would be living in the property. 
That complaint wasnt referred to us in time, and I decided it wasnt something our service 
had the power to review.
Several other complaints were raised by Mr K over the years about not being allowed a 
lower rate. He argued that TMB were bound to service the contract hed signed for the full 
term  which he thought meant offering new products to existing customers. Our service 
considered that complaint in 2016 and we didnt agree that TMB had acted unfairly by not 
offering Mr K a lower rate. We thought TMB was free to decide to exit the market and had 
explained his options many times. Those being to either re-mortgage elsewhere, or apply 
through the internal re-mortgage process to the other bank in the same group. So, our view 
said the lender had acted reasonably by being clear with Mr K on what he needed to do next 
if he wanted a lower interest rate. 
In October 2020 Mr K started the process of re-mortgaging to the other lender in the banking 
group. Some legal work was needed to register the land charge in the new lenders name. 
But Mr K has health conditions which affect his ability to read, complete and sign forms. 
Problems arose, according to TMB, because the new banks solicitors couldnt 
accommodate Mr Ks circumstances. That meant the solicitors werent able to carry out the 
appropriate verification with Mr K that would allow the re-mortgage to be finalised. 
During the application process Mr K contacted TMB to say he was still experiencing financial 
difficulties as a result of the pandemic. He had taken the maximum amount of payment 
holidays allowed  so, a reduced payment plan was agreed in December 2020, for £250 a 
month, to run until the end of February 2021. Mr K had been hoping to have the move to the 
new lender finalised by that point, which would see contractual monthly repayments reduce 
significantly. When that didnt happen, Mr K raised a complaint about the breakdown in the 
re-mortgage process and the solicitors refusal to represent him. He also thought arrears had 
built up on the account as a result of the delays.  
TMB responded to say it agreed with his complaint about the service received from the new 
lenders solicitors, and paid £250 in compensation to apologise. TMB also amended the 
interest rate on Mr Ks existing mortgage to match the one he would have been on, had the 
re-mortgage with the new bank gone through. The lower rate was backdated to the 
beginning of December 2020, when TMB thought the application ought to have completed 
had there not been any problems. It also set the product to run until 2025  again, to match 
the offer from the other lender. TMB said the backdating of the rate meant it had accounted 
for the delays in lower interest being applied to the account, and any arrears remaining after 
those calculations were Mr Ks responsibility.
Mr K didnt think TMBs response went far enough. He still believed the arrears had been 
caused by the problems in the re-mortgage process  and said he was finding the regular 
letters about them distressing. Mr K also thought TMB agreeing to change his rate in 2021 
was proof that what hed been told for many years wasnt right  and he could have been 
offered a new product sooner. So he asked our service to review things.
An investigator here didnt think TMB were at fault in what happened. In his view, TMB had 
stepped in to ensure he wasnt affected by the re-mortgage not completing  and matching 
the rate represented help outside of its normal policies. The investigator also didnt think the 
remaining arrears had arisen out of any delays in the lower interest being applied. Mr K 
didnt agree with the view, and felt strong strongly that TMB had evaded justice for many 
years by not agreeing to a new interest rate on his mortgage. He considered what happened 
in 2021 to be proof hed been right all along.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision on 
the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I havent found anything to suggest TMB treated Mr K unfairly in what 
happened  so Im not upholding his complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to 
Mr K, who firmly believes TMB ought to have offered him a new rate sooner. But I havent 
found anything untoward behind TMB amending his rate in 2021, after his application to 
change lender didnt complete. I hope my explanation below provides Mr K with some 
reassurance. As part of the process to re-mortgage to the new lender, free conveyancing services were 
provided. It appears the solicitors dealing with the legal work werent able to accommodate 
Mr Ks circumstances, and so the re-mortgage couldnt complete. Those solicitors are 
named on the October 2020 mortgage offer, so Im satisfied the other lender arranged those 
legal services  and would ultimately take responsibility for any issues arising from that 
appointment. Im unsure why TMB apologised and paid compensation for the problems Mr K 
had with the other banks solicitors. Perhaps it felt some shared responsibility, being part of 
the same banking group. But as other lender is a different entity, it would need to separately 
address a complaint about its part in what went wrong. The other lender has confirmed it 
wont be providing a further response on the matter  so if Mr K wants us to review the 
actions of that bank, he is able to ask us to do so from now. Based on what Ive seen, I dont 
find that TMB can be held responsible for the breakdown in the re-mortgage process. 
Though I havent seen any evidence to suggest TMB were at fault in what happened, it tried 
to avoid him being impacted by the mortgage not transferring through matching the rate Mr K 
would have achieved. Due to its commercial decision to withdraw from the market, TMB isnt 
set up, from a regulatory point of view, to carry out the reviews that would be needed to 
approve new lending. But it was happy to rely on the checks carried out by the other lender, 
in order to make the change to Mr Ks existing mortgage. That was a significant departure 
from its usual processes, done to help Mr K in light of his vulnerabilities  and I find TMB 
acted fairly and reasonably when doing so. 
I know that Mr K believes TMB should backdate the lower rate to 2011. We previously 
looked into a complaint about TMB not offering a lower rate, covering the period up until 
2016, and we said it didnt have to. So I cant relook at that matter now. My consideration of 
when it would be fair to backdate the lower interest to solely relates to the issues Mr K had 
with the internal re-mortgage process in 2020/2021. Ive seen several letters over the years 
that clearly explained what Mr K needed to do if he wanted to apply for a lower rate. I 
appreciate his circumstances made it more difficult for him to understand correspondence  
but Ive seen evidence that Mr K knew he needed to call a particular number to go through 
the internal re-mortgage process. He called that number on a couple of occasions prior to 
the application in 2020, and complained about long wait times as well as not being able to go 
through the process in branch. So Im satisfied TMB were clear about the process and that 
Mr K understood what he needed to do.
Starting that process wasnt a guarantee any application would be approved  as, although 
the criteria was reduced, the level of arrears on the account at certain points meant the other 
lender in the banking group wasnt prepared to offer a new rate. Other times it seems Mr K 
wasnt prepared to wait in order to start the process over the phone. This application differed 
from the previous attempts, as it went as far as being accepted and approved by the new 
lender  but couldnt conclude due to the legal formalities not being completed. This 
application was the first time Mr K had got that close to completing  but I dont think it was 
through any fault of TMB that the previous attempts didnt get as far. That means I find TMB 
acted reasonably when it didnt agree to backdate the lower interest rate to 2011. 
TMB has explained it backdated the lower rate to the beginning of December 2020, as the 
offer was issued on 28 October 2020  so that was the earliest point it could have 
completed. TMB argued that even if Mr K was in a position to accept the offer immediately 
and commence the re-mortgage process, it would not have completed before the end of 
October 2020. Then if the switch completed very quickly, during the following month, any 
rate changes would have taken effect from the first day of the month after (December) at the 
earliest. I agree with that rationale, and so Im satisfied that TMB treated Mr K fairly by 
choosing 1 December 2020 as the point from which to retrospectively apply the lower rate. Having looked at the remaining arrears, after the interest backdating calculations were 
applied to the balance, I dont consider they resulted from the problems with the re-mortgage 
process. Mr Ks mortgage payments with the lower interest rate applied were £283.72. But 
during this period Mr K told TMB he could only afford to pay £250 a month towards his 
mortgage. He made payment for that amount in December 2020, March 2021 and April 2021 
 with the first direct debit payment for £283.72 taken in May 2021. However no payments 
were received in January or February 2021, and there was a £33.72 shortfall (on the 
contractual monthly amount if the lower rate was in place) in the months where £250 was 
paid. The current arrears balance adds up to what I was expecting, based on the shortfalls in 
payments Ive described above for this period. So Im satisfied the arrears arent the result of 
any delays in applying the lower rate, and TMB has acted reasonably by saying they are 
owed by Mr K. 
I was sorry to learn how worrying and frustrating Mr K finds TMBs reminders about the 
arrears, and the other contact he receives about the mortgage generally. The regulator 
places certain duties on a lender to keep its customers updated about any outstanding 
balances on an account. I also think the arrears are owed  so its fair that TMB contacts him 
about them. A separate complaint has been raised about the level of contact from TMB, 
which Mr K believes has been unreasonable, and TMB is currently within the eight weeks it 
has to reply on that matter. Mr Ks next step, if he wants the reminders to stop, would be to 
come to an arrangement with TMB to affordably repay the arrears. He can do that by 
contacting TMB, on the number provided in its letters, to discuss his options around paying 
them back.
 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint about The Mortgage Business Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 April 2023.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman