DRN-4222340
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about how EUi Limited trading as Admiral (Admiral) declined a 
claim under their home insurance policy for damage to a wall at their property in bad 
weather. 
Admiral use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Admiral 
includes these agents.
What happened
In January 2023 a boundary wall at Mrs H and Mr Hs property collapsed during bad 
weather. They contacted Admiral to tell them about the damage and lodge a claim. Admiral 
arranged for a surveyor (B) to visit the property and assess the damage. 
B concluded there was no insured cause for the damage, saying to Mrs H and Mr H the 
collapse was due to wear and tear. Based on Bs conclusions, Admiral declined the claim, 
saying the collapse was due to gradually operating cause (an exclusion under the policy). 
Mrs H and Mr H challenged the decline and disputed Bs conclusions. They said the wall had 
collapsed during a violent storm and that theyd met their obligations (under the policy) to 
maintain the wall. They also provided a video showing the wall to be in a good state of repair 
five weeks before the collapse. They thought Admiral had focused on the gradually 
operating cause exclusion to mitigate their responsibility to accept the claim without proper 
consideration of what had caused the wall to collapse. 
Admiral considered Mrs H and Mr Hs challenge as a complaint, but they didnt uphold it. In 
their final response, they said B had confirmed the collapse of the wall related more to wear 
and tear than a storm event. This meant the damage had been occurring for some time due 
to gradual wear on the life of the materials in the wall. They referred to the General 
Conditions section of the policy and the obligation to take care of the property, as well as to 
the exclusion for damage from Gradual causes. So, they didnt consider storm as the cause 
of the collapse, confirming their decline of the claim as an insurable event hadnt occurred.
Mrs H and Mr H then complained to this service. They disagreed with Admirals view the 
collapse of the wall was due to gradually operating cause reiterating their view the wall had 
collapsed due to the violent storm - they said that on the evening of the incident the wall was 
subject to persistent rain and winds of up to 64mph (force 11 on the Beaufort Scale). They 
also thought the wall had been properly maintained and in a good state of repair before the 
incident, with no visible deterioration or lean. Admirals decline of the claim meant they were 
left with a significant bill to have the wall reinstated. They wanted Admiral to reconsider their 
decision to decline the claim and to settle the claim in full (or to make a reasonable offer to 
have the wall reinstated).
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding the storm caused the damage to the wall, 
rather than wear and tear. She noted comments from Admirals in-house surveyor 
acknowledging Mrs H and Mr H had maintained the wall by replacing the mortar. To put 
things right, she thought Admiral should settle the claim in line with the [remaining] policy 
terms and conditions and either reinstate the wall of offer a cash settlement (if Mrs H and Mr 
H had already had the wall reinstated). 
Admiral disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review 
the complaint. They said images of the wall indicated it was in a poor condition prior to the 
storm. Also, even at windspeeds of the magnitude at the time of the collapse, they wouldnt 
expect them to cause a boundary wall to collapse (boundary walls should be strong enough 
to resist wind speeds of that magnitude, if in a suitable condition). They also referred to 
further view from their in-house surveyor, saying the wall wasnt wide enough for the height it 
had been constructed and so not built using best practice. The surveyor accepted Mrs H and 
Mr H had re-pointed the outer edges of the joints  but that wouldnt introduce any additional 
stability (and it wouldnt take long to crack and fall away through frost action).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Admiral has acted fairly towards Mrs H and Mr H.
The main element of Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint is that Admiral unfairly declined their claim, 
on the grounds that the bad weather at the time of the incident wasnt the main cause of the 
damage. Rather, it was due to wear and tear (gradual operating causes) with the wall. Mrs H 
and Mr H disagree with Admirals view the collapse of the wall was due to gradually 
operating cause saying the wall collapsed due to the storm and it was properly maintained 
and in a good state of repair before the incident, with no visible deterioration or lean.
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue (wear and tear), there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in Admirals case notes for the claim, theres reference to 64mph 
violent storm force gusts, approx. 8.30pm and storm valid  64 mph. The notes also 
indicate (when the damage was first notified to them) Admiral advised Mrs H and Mr H the 
criteria for storm was met (but that they would instruct B to validate the damage in full). Mrs 
H and Mr H refer to the same point about being advised storm conditions were present at the 
time of the collapse. 
So, as both parties accept there were storm conditions (and the wind speed would indicate 
storm conditions as this service would see them) Ive concluded the evidence available 
indicates storm conditions were present at the time of the incident.
On the second question, Ive considered the description of the damage provided by Mrs H 
and Mr H (and in Bs report and photographs of the collapsed section of wall). The wall has 
clearly collapsed. This kind of damage is consistent with what wed expect to see in storm 
conditions, particularly those involving high winds. 
So, Ive concluded the damage is consistent with damage a storm typically causes.
  
So, the third question is key. Admiral declined the claim on the grounds the cause of the 
damage was wear and tear. In other words, the storm only highlighted existing issues with the walls condition, which was the result of wear and tear. So, the bad weather wasnt the 
main or dominant cause of the damage (it was the pre-existing condition of the wall).
Ive considered this issue carefully, including the points made by Mrs H and Mr H and by 
Admiral, including the report from B (including photographs of the collapsed wall and of the 
other boundary walls) and the views of their in-house surveyor. Taking all these things into 
account, Ive concluded Admiral havent acted fairly in declining Mrs H and Mr Hs claim. Ill 
set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
But where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as Admiral have 
done by citing gradual causes/wear and tear) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion 
applies. Looking at the available information and evidence, Im not persuaded Admiral have 
done so in the specific circumstances of this case. Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, Admiral refer to the following policy wording, where theres the 
following exclusion under the heading What is not covered:
10. Gradual causes
Any loss or damage caused by anything that happens gradually, including wear and 
tear, wet and dry rot, or damage due to exposure to sunlight or atmospheric 
conditions, settlement, mildew, rust or corrosion.
Similar wording appears in the Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which sets 
out the more important features of the policy.
Ive also considered Bs report from their inspection, which concludes there was no insured 
cause and states the cause of the damage as Natural breakdown of materials. And theres 
a statement that:
When the surveyor inspected the garden/boundary wall he observed that the 
damage was caused by natural breakdown of materials.
Ive also looked at the images of the wall taken by B after the collapse. B concluded the 
damage was caused by natural breakdown of materials. However, looking at the images, Im 
not persuaded thats clearly the case. The wall has collapsed mainly in large sections, with 
some separation (though that may have occurred when the wall impacted the ground). 
Theres no clear separation of the bricks as might be expected had there been a natural 
breakdown of materials. And photographs of those other sections of boundary wall that 
remained intact dont show any obvious signs of deterioration or being in a poor condition. 
So, Ive concluded, on the balance of probabilities, the storm was the main (dominant) cause 
of the damage  not wear and tear or gradual causes.
In forming this conclusion, Ive also considered the issue of whether Mrs H and Mr H had 
met the obligation under the policy to maintain their property (to a good state of repair). In 
their final response, Admiral also refer to the General Conditions to your home insurance 
cover section of the policy booklet, which includes the following term:
Care of your property  You and your family must maintain your Buildings and 
Contents in a good state of repair taking reasonable care to avoid any accident and to prevent loss or damage to everything covered by this insuranceFailure to 
comply with the above could result in you not being able to claim under this policy 
and your policy being cancelled.
As mentioned above, its acknowledged Mrs H and Mr H carried out some re-pointing of the 
wall, which I think is reasonable for them to have carried out. In bringing their complaint, Mrs 
H and Mr H refer to a video provided to Admiral taken shortly before the incident. They 
maintain this shows the wall had been maintained and wasnt in a poor condition. Admirals 
case notes suggest they werent able to view the video (and Ive not seen it within the 
evidence and information provided) but looking at photographs of the wall (both the section 
that collapsed and the sections that didnt) they dont obviously show walls that havent been 
maintained. And while Admirals in-house surveyor has cast doubt on the effectiveness of re-
pointing, I dont think it means Mrs H and Mr H havent maintained the wall (given that the 
indications are theyd only been at the property for two years at the time of the incident).
Ive also considered Admiral in-house surveyors view that the wall wasnt sufficiently wide 
for its height. The implication is that it wasnt constructed properly (and or there was 
defective workmanship). But this wasnt the grounds for the decline of the claim given by 
Admiral either initially nor in their final response. And I dont think it reasonable to hold Mrs H 
and Mr H responsible for this, given they had only been at the property for two years and 
werent responsible for the walls construction. And as noted above, other sections of the 
wall appear to have been constructed in the same way  but remained intact. Which doesnt 
suggest an inherent weakness of the walls more generally. 
Taking these points into account, then Ive concluded Admiral havent done enough (given 
the onus being on them to show the exclusion applies) to have applied the exclusion for 
wear and tear fairly and reasonably to decline the claim for damage to the wall, in the 
specific circumstances of this case.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what Admiral should do to put things 
right. As I dont think they can fairly and reasonably rely of the exclusion for gradual causes 
(wear and tear) to decline the claim, then they should settle the claim in accordance with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any policy excess as appropriate).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint. I 
require EUi Limited trading as Admiral to:
Settle the claim in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy 
(including any policy excess as appropriate).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 July 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman