DRN-2872999
The complaint
This complaint includes the late Mrs H; Mr H is acting on her behalf as the executer of her 
estate. To keep things simple, Ill refer to them as Mr and Mrs H throughout this decision.
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs H say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them PPI.
 
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr and   
Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
HSBC had to make it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI. Mr H has 
said they were unaware of the existence of the policy and that it was added to the 
mortgage without their knowledge. HSBC has said it would have made it clear that the 
PPI was a separate product to the mortgage and it would have gained Mr and Mrs Hs 
consent to add it to the mortgage.
There are no longer any documents from the time of the sale. I dont think this is 
unreasonable considering the length of time that has passed. Where theres limited 
information for me to consider, I have to determine what I think is more likely to have 
happened in the circumstances. For me to agree with Mr H, Id have to agree it was 
more likely that HSBC deliberately set up the PPI without the consent of Mr and Mrs H. 
While this is possible, I dont think its the more likely scenario. On balance, with no 
evidence suggesting otherwise, and considering Mr and Mrs H would have had to set up 
a separate direct debit for the monthly PPI payment, I think its more likely that HSBC 
followed its normal procedures and gained Mr and Mrs Hs consent to take out the 
policy. 
It isnt clear if HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. HSBC no longer has a 
record and Mr H hasnt indicated either way. As HSBC had to do more to make sure the 
PPI was right for Mr and Mrs H if it did recommend the policy to them, Ive assessed the 
case as if it was advised. The evidence about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time, 
shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example 
Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the cover and they didnt have any means to fall back on if 
they were unable to work, so they had a need for cover. 
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Hs employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. And they havent told us about any pre-existing 
medical conditions that could affect their ability to claim. There were also no additional 
restrictions on cover for mental health and back problems.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs H as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably thought they were buying 
from the information they were given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs H would have declined the cover had HSBC done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could 
provide a useful benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting. And in 
those circumstances, I think that they would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a 
claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules 
and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of 
the number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant HSBC should have disclosed the poor value 
and explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the 
chances of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.This means HSBC doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and the 
estate of Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman