DRN-3554763
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) have asked him to reduce his overdraft 
limit which he has had with no issues for a number of years. 
What happened
Mr T held a bank account with HSBC with an arranged overdraft facility for 40 years. In 
February 2022 HSBC advised Mr T that having reviewed his account over the previous six 
months it had identified he was using his overdraft most of the time and asked to consider 
reducing his overdraft usage.
Mr T complained.  HSBC says it was working to FCA rules and if Mr T applied for an 
overdraft now with his current limit of £1,750 due to his change in finances hed no longer be 
accepted for this limit.
Mr T was both insulted and dis-satisfied by this given his income and says HSBC are using 
the FCA rules to take away a facility at a time of great stress and brought his complaint to 
this service.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ts concerns and reached the conclusion that HSBC 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly as overdrafts are only supposed to be a 
short-term way of borrowing money and HSBC have a duty of care to ensure this type of 
lending is reducing. 
Mr T disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at problems that a consumer has experienced and see if the bank has 
done anything wrong. If it has, we seek to put the consumer back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And we may award modest compensation 
that we think is fair and reasonable.
Mr T is complaining that following a review of his account over the last six months HSBC has 
asked that he reduce the overdraft on his account. Before I go any further, I want to be clear 
in saying that I havent considered whether the banking facilities HSBC is offering Mr T are 
fair and reasonable. Ultimately, what services a bank offers  including how much money it 
is willing to lend - is a commercial decision. Just like it is up to Mr T to decide whether to 
accept what HSBC is offering or to take his business elsewhere. And providing what HSBC 
are asking is allowed within the terms and conditions of the account, it isnt something for me 
to get involved with. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Ts account under section 16) say that:
We may agree an arranged overdraft on your current account if we think you can afford it. 
Overdrafts are meant to be for short-term borrowing You must make payments at least 
monthly to reduce what you owe. All overdrafts are repayable on demand. This means that 
we can ask you to pay the money back straight away. 
HSBC have provided a copy of Mr Ts bank statements in the six months prior to sending the 
letter asking him to reduce his overdraft. I can see that although money was being paid into 
the account, for the entire period Mr Ts account was overdrawn and for much of the time in 
the later months he was nearing the top of his overdraft limit.
I understand Mr T may be unhappy about being asked to reduce his overdraft, but overdraft 
lending is supposed to be for unforeseen emergency borrowing and a bank does have a 
duty to ensure that any lending it makes is affordable. Indeed  based on what Ive seen 
from Mr Ts bank statements Mr Ts overdraft was not reducing and HSBC is taking action 
in-line with what Id expect. Furthermore, HSBC is acting within the terms and conditions of 
the account asking that Mr T reduce his overdraft  and if it wished to do so could request Mr 
T repay the overdraft entirely.
So I cant say that HSBC has done anything wrong when on review of Mr Ts overdraft 
facility it asked Mr T to reduce the level of debt. 
So it follows that I do not uphold this complaint as HSBC has not made an error or done 
anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman