DRN-3501315
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt make him aware that it had closed 
his e-bond account and transferred the funds to a holding account. This meant that the funds 
were no longer visible to him.
What happened
Mr C lives outside of the UK, in a country that is part of the EU. In 2021, Nationwide wrote to 
him to let him know that the two e-bonds he held with it would need to be closed due to a 
Brexit ruling.
Mr C says he wasnt able to log in to his online banking for almost a month because his card 
had expired. When he did log in, he was unable to view his e-bonds.
Mr C contacted Nationwide, who initially told him that the money had been transferred to one 
of his other Nationwide accounts. However, the money wasnt there. After Mr C queried what 
had happened to his second e-bond account, Nationwide told him the money was in a 
holding account and he needed to complete a reclaim form in order for the money to be 
transferred to him. 
Mr C complained to Nationwide, who said it had written to him to let him know why his e-
bond accounts needed to close and had explained his next steps. The letter said that if 
accounts were not closed within the timescale given, the funds would be temporarily 
transferred to a holding account and members would need ID to reclaim their money.
Nationwide said Mr C had requested one of his e-bonds be closed via online banking and 
the money had been transferred to one of his other accounts. However, his other e-bond 
account had been automatically closed after the deadline had lapsed and the closing 
balance had been transferred to a holding account. It said this was correctly done in line with 
its process.
Nationwide apologised for incorrectly telling Mr C that his money had been transferred to 
one of his other accounts. It paid him £75 for distress and inconvenience and also offered to 
cover the cost of his calls. 
Mr C referred his complaint to our service. He was unhappy that his funds werent visible 
and was worried about what might have happened if hed forgotten about the money or had 
passed away. He wanted Nationwide to change its processes.
Our investigator looked into Mr Cs concerns but didnt think his complaint should be upheld. 
She was satisfied Nationwide had followed its process correctly and the money had since 
been transferred to Mr C. She thought the £75 Nationwide had paid Mr C for poor service 
was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view. He said hed tried to close both of his e-bond 
accounts at the same time, but he couldnt close one because it had disappeared. He was 
concerned that he would have lost £20,000 if hed forgotten about it. So, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr C acknowledges receiving a letter from Nationwide advising him that his e-bond accounts 
needed to be closed and that the funds would be transferred into a holding account if he 
didnt take action. 
Nationwide says that one of Mr Cs e-bond accounts (for £50,000) was closed in May 2021 
after he submitted the request through his internet banking. Its records show that the funds 
from this account were transferred to Mr Cs savings account at the time. However, 
Nationwide says that Mr C didnt submit a request for his other e-bond account (for £20,000) 
to be closed by the deadline it had given him. The account was closed automatically on      
23 June 2021 and the funds were transferred into a holding account.
Mr C has told us that he requested the closure of the £50,000 e-bond account through online 
banking, but he wasnt able to close the £20,000 account because it wasnt showing. Hes 
since told us that he didnt request that either account be closed. If he had done, he would 
have requested both accounts be closed at the same time. 
Its understandable that Mr C might not remember exactly what happened, given the time 
thats passed. I can see that Mr C emailed Nationwide on 29 July 2021, saying that his        
e-bond had disappeared from his view accounts. Theres no mention of one e-bond 
showing and the other not. And, as Nationwides records show that both e-bond accounts 
had been closed by that point, I think its likely that neither accounts were visible to Mr C 
online. 
I appreciate Mr C doesnt think he would have closed one e-bond account without the other. 
But where information is incomplete or contradictory, I need to make a finding on what I think 
is most likely to have happened based on what I have.
 
The information from Nationwide suggests Mr C only requested the £50,000 e-bond account 
be closed online. And I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr C submitted a request to 
close his £20,000 e-bond account at the same time or at a different time. So, based on what 
Ive seen, I think Nationwide correctly followed its process and transferred the funds to a 
holding account. This meant that Mr C needed to submit a reclaim form for the money to be 
transferred to him. And I can see that this happened in September 2021.
Nationwide has acknowledged that its communication with Mr C was poor. It gave Mr C the 
wrong information when he contacted it on 29 July 2021. This resulted in Mr C having to 
request information about the accounts he held and having to go back to Nationwide. This 
was understandably frustrating for Mr C, who has said he spent days worrying about 
whether or not he had another account. He says he spent hours chatting to Nationwide 
online and over the phone. 
However, Nationwide did give Mr C the correct information a few weeks after his initial 
contact and told him what he needed to do to reclaim the money. And I think the £75 
Nationwide has paid Mr C is reasonable compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of its error.I appreciate Mr C is also concerned about what might have happened if he hadnt 
remembered he had a second e-bond or had passed away before the funds had been 
returned to him. However, I can only consider what has happened and not what might have 
happened. 
Mr C has also raised concerns that Nationwide might be holding on to money belonging to 
other customers without them realising it. He thinks Nationwide should have done more to 
communicate what would happen to accounts impacted by the Brexit ruling.
 
However, our service isnt the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is. This 
means that I dont have the power to tell Nationwide what processes or procedures to follow. 
Nor do I have the power to fine or punish a business. Our services role is to consider 
whether or not a business has treated a complainant fairly and reasonably and to tell them 
what to do to put things right if we think it hasnt. 
I think Nationwides communication with Mr C could have been better than it was. However, 
Mr Cs money has been transferred to him. And, although Nationwide gave Mr C incorrect 
information about his e-bond, this was rectified a few weeks later. While I appreciate that   
Mr C experienced some unnecessary distress and inconvenience, I think the £75 Nationwide 
has paid him is reasonable to put things right.
I know my answer will be disappointing for Mr C, but I dont require Nationwide to do 
anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2022.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman