DRN-4460309
The complaint
This complaint has been brought by Miss B in her capacity as Administrator of the estate of 
her late father, Mr B. Her complaint arises out of a lifetime mortgage taken out by Mr B in 
2003 with Dudley Building Society (DBS).
Miss B says that DBS unilaterally altered the terms of the mortgage by forbidding family 
members to take personal possessions to the property. Miss B says that, as a result, DBS 
also excluded carers and denied Mr B the right to be cared for in his own home.
Miss B also says that, after Mr B passed away in February 2021 DBS refused to freeze 
interest on the mortgage pending a sale of the property.
Miss B had also complained that the mortgage taken out in 2003 and further advances taken 
out in 2007 and 2008 were mis-sold and unsuitable for Mr B. On 14 November 2023 I issued 
a decision in which I explained why those matters were outside the jurisdiction of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service. 
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, our decisions are published, so its 
important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr B or Miss B being identified. 
So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. If I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; rather, itll be because I didnt 
think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
In 2003 Mr B took out an equity release mortgage with DBS, after receiving advice from his 
own independent financial advisers. The original advance was for £280,000. Mr B took out 
further advances in 2007 and 2008, so there were in total four sub-accounts on the 
mortgage with a total balance of around £536,000 in February 2021.
I am sorry to note that Mr B passed away in February 2021. Miss B was appointed 
Administrator of his estate, and raised a complaint with DBS about the mortgage.
Miss B told DBS that she had seen a letter sent by DBS to Mr B stating that family members 
were prohibited from bringing personal possessions into the property. Miss B had been 
unable to locate the letters amongst her fathers paperwork. DBS said that no such letter 
was sent and didnt uphold her complaint about this.
Miss B also thought it was unfair of DBS not to freeze or suspend interest on the mortgage 
after Mr B passed away in February 2021. DBS said that it had had no request to freeze 
interest.
Dissatisfied with DBSs response, Miss B raised a complaint with our service on behalf of the 
estate. An investigator looked at what had happened. He found no record of any letter sent 
by DBS to Mr B forbidding family members from bringing personal belongings into the 
property. He also noted that Miss B had not been able to provide a copy of this letter either. 
On balance, the investigator was not persuaded DBS had sent such a letter.
The investigator also noted that the Terms & Conditions (T&Cs) that applied to the mortgage 
did not specify that interest would be frozen after Mr B passed away. In the circumstances, 
he didnt think DBS had acted unreasonably in continuing to charge interest on the 
mortgage.
Miss B asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will start first by explaining the extent of our powers in relation to this matter.
Under our rules, we can consider a complaint from a consumer. Mr B was a consumer and 
so met the definition of an eligible complainant set out in our rules. For the purposes of this 
complaint, the rules say that a complaint may be brought on behalf of an eligible complainant 
by a person authorised by the eligible complainant or authorised by law. In this respect, 
Miss B as Administrator of Mr Bs estate, is bringing the complaint on the estates behalf, 
and as such she is authorised by law to do so.
But I must explain that, although Miss B is representing the estate, it is Mr B who was DBSs 
customer. Miss Bs role is to bring the complaint on the estates behalf, in the same way that 
other consumers might instruct a relative, solicitor or accountant to represent them in a 
complaint. But this does not entitle Miss B to air her own grievances about DBS, because 
she is not its customer; her role is limited to putting forward the estates complaint.
I note from the detailed correspondence that Miss B has expressed her own opinions about 
what she perceives to be DBSs failings  and I do not doubt her strength of feeling about 
this. But because Miss B is not DBSs customer, her concerns about DBS dont form part of 
this complaint.
I will now address the issues in this complaint.
DBS unilaterally altering the mortgage terms
Ive noted what Miss B has said about this  that she saw a letter in Mr Bs home from DBS 
which specifically prohibited family members from bringing personal belongings into the 
property. However, shes been unable to find this letter.
Ive looked at the detailed contact notes, and there is no record of any such letter being sent 
by DBS. There is, however, a letter from DBS dated 24 July 2007 which says (amongst other 
things):
Occupation of the property by you and family member/members during your 
lifetime
The Society  [DBS] has no objection to allow a family member or members to occupy 
the property with you during your lifetime and possibly activate a business from your 
premises, provided the structure of the property is not altered to accommodate 
business activitiesThis letter says the exact opposite of the letter Miss B says she saw, but of which there is no 
record in DBSs detailed account history, and which letter cannot now be found by Miss B. 
I think it is unlikely that if DBS later changed its stance on allowing family members to 
occupy the property (which, by necessity, would include bringing personal possessions with 
them), there would have been some record of this in the contact notes. I say this because 
DBS specifically confirmed in writing (as set out above) that Mr B could have family 
members living with him.
In all the circumstances, and in the absence of any documentary evidence in support of what 
Miss B has said about this, I am unable to uphold this part of the complaint.
DBS refusing to freeze interest on the account after Mr B passed away
I have reviewed the mortgage and further advance T&Cs, and there is no provision in them 
for interest on the mortgage to be frozen on the death of a borrower. There is no requirement 
for DBS to do this, and although Mr B passed away during the pandemic, there was no 
obligation on the part of DBS to freeze interest for the benefit of the estate.
In the circumstances, Im unable to find that DBS has acted unfairly in continuing to charge 
interest on the outstanding balance.
Conclusion
I know this isnt the outcome Miss B was hoping for, but after careful consideration, Im 
unable to find that DBS has done anything wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B on behalf 
of the estate of Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 14 December 2023. 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman