DRN-3833581
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to his purchase of some 
solar panels.
Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
Background
Mr H bought solar panels for his home in October 2019. The purchase was funded by a ten 
year loan from Ikano, and so that business is liable under the Act for the acts and omissions 
of the installer. Mr H says the installer misled him into believing that the panels would be 
self-funding, which they werent.
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. Having considered all the 
information and evidence provided, our adjudicator agreed that the installer had 
misrepresented the system to Mr H and decided to uphold the complaint. Ikano did not 
agree, and so the case was referred for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote a provisional decision which read as follows.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, I do not uphold this complaint. That is 
because the solar quote sets out the cost and the estimated benefit of the panels very 
clearly, and the benefits did not begin to approach the cost.
Mr H has signed the quote, so Im satisfied that it was shown to him as part of the sale 
process. Immediately above his signature is the cash price of the panels, £10,000. I think 
this figure is conspicuous; it is not buried in some fine print. 
The interest on the loan does not appear in this document, and so I think that Mr H could be 
forgiven for overlooking it. However, Im sure he knew he was paying for the panels with a 
ten year loan. So it was quite clear that for the panels to be self-funding, they would have to 
make £1,000 a year. But on another page the same document says that the estimated 
benefit in the first year of having the panels is only £487.32. That is less than half of what 
would have been required. Although these figures were given on different pages, I still think 
the quote makes this clear.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that the installer misled Mr H about the benefits and 
cost of the panels. It was clear that the panels would not be self-funding during the term of 
the loan. It does not seem likely to me that the salesman told him the panels would pay for 
themselves at the same time as asking him to sign a document that said they would not.
So my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
Responses to my provisional findings
The CMC disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, it said:
I had not explained what was wrong with the adjudicators decision;
I had given no weight to Mr Hs evidence about what the salesman had told him 
verbally, even though Mr H was an eye-witness to what had been said;
I had not given due weight to the salesmans duty to ensure that his sales pitch was 
clear and not misleading, and had instead effectively shifted the burden on to Mr H;
the CMC asked if I disbelieved Mr Hs version of events, and asked why he would 
have bought the panels unless he had been told they would pay for themselves;
my provisional findings were so brief that they suggested that I had not assessed this 
complaint in detail.
I will deal with these points below (although not necessarily in the same order).
My findings
It is not my role to evaluate the adjudicators opinion and to see if it is faulty, like a judicial 
review for example. Instead, my role is to consider the complaint afresh and to substitute my 
own opinion for my colleagues. I have set out my opinion succinctly because the statute 
which provides for the Financial Ombudsman Service says that disputes should be resolved 
quickly and with minimum formality and so that is our house style. It does not mean that 
I have not considered all of the evidence and arguments in this complaint. I have read and 
considered the whole file, but I have focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If 
I have not commented on any specific point its not because I have failed to consider it, but 
because I did not think I needed to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
The CMC and Mr H understandably attach great importance to the salesmans verbal 
representations, and I have carefully considered Mr Hs version of events. But I dont think 
its likely or plausible that Mr H would have simply taken the salesmans word for it if he was 
really told that he could buy thousands of pounds worth of equipment  paid for with an 
interest-bearing loan  without it costing him a penny, without at any point asking to see 
something to that effect in writing. And I do not accept the CMCs submission that Mr Hs 
own evidence is the only evidence about what was said at the meeting  the quote is also 
evidence about that. So on the balance of probabilities, I am satisfied that the solar quote did 
form a central part of the sales process, and I do not think it is likely that the salesman made 
oral representations which he knew were contradicted by the quote at a meeting in which the 
quote played a central part.
I agree that a sales pitch must be clear and not misleading. But as I think that the quote was 
clear and accurate and that it was referred to in the meeting, and that the salesman did not 
contradict it, I am satisfied that this duty was complied with.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 Richard Wood
Ombudsman