DRN-2445896
The complaint
Mr M complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) reduced the credit limit on 
his credit card.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card. In June 2020, Nationwide reduced the limit from £5300 to £4450.
Mr M complained. He said he needed the original credit limit for expenditure. He wasnt told 
about the reduction before it happened.
Nationwide replied in June 2020. They said the limit was reduced following a review of Mr 
Ms account. They did this to make sure customers can afford to pay back the money theyve 
borrowed. They could reduce the limit in line with the terms and conditions  these were 
agreed by Mr M when the account was opened.
Mr M asked this service to look at his complaint. Our investigator looked at what had 
happened. In August 2020 she said Nationwide had acted within its terms and conditions 
which said they could reduce credit limits. They aimed to give 14 days notice when they did 
this, but they didnt have to. The Lending Standards Board also dont require businesses to 
give a notice of reduction. She could see that it would have been inconvenient, but there was 
no evidence of financial loss or hardship that could be considered. So, she felt that 
Nationwide had acted reasonably.
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this would have been irritating for Mr M. He says he had some expenses to 
pay and he needed the higher credit limit for that.
But - We cannot tell Nationwide how they should lend money  that is their business 
decision. 
The terms and conditions for the credit card say We can change your credit limit we will 
tell you aboutdecreases (in) your credit limit when we will aim to give you 14 days notice 
unless we consider that it wouldnt be appropriate. So, they could reduce Mr Ms credit limit 
if they wanted to. In an ideal world, Nationwide wouldve written to Mr M in advance to let 
him know  so he couldve asked them not to reduce the limit - but they didnt have to.
The Lending Standards Boards Standard of Lending Practice doesnt require a business to
give notice of a credit limit decrease either.
I can see that Mr M wasnt making purchases with the card. He was making fixed 
repayments of £200 per month by direct debit. So, it looks like Nationwide expected this to 
continue. In June 2020, the balance had gone down to £4323 debit and they reduced Mr Ms 
limit to the level of the borrowing. So, this looks reasonable to me. 
Mr M hasnt said that he was caused a financial loss or hardship because of what has 
happened  but it was inconvenient for him.
So, while I can appreciate that this will have been annoying for him, I cannot say that 
Nationwide did anything wrong here, so I wont be asking them to do anymore.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman