DRN-4119748
The complaint
Mr S complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) wont refund the money he lost in an investment 
scam.
What happened
Mr S is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr S throughout this decision. 
Mr S says that he saw an advert about investing by a company Ill refer to as F on a social 
networking site and completed an enquiry form. Soon after, Mr S received a call from a 
representative of F who explained what the company did. Mr S was required to provide a 
copy of his passport and utility bill to set the account up. 
Mr S was then called by a broker from F. He was asked to download a screen sharing 
application and a messaging app to communicate with F. Mr S made a small payment from 
his bank account (not Revolut) and the trader asked him to watch her trade. After a few days 
Mr S received a call from the trader to say he wasnt making enough profit and needed to 
invest more. He transferred £1,000 from his Revolut account. When the scammer asked Mr 
S to invest more, and he said he had no funds, she sent a list of lenders that F worked with. 
Mr S took out a loan for £15,000. The loan credited Mr Ss bank account and from there he 
transferred it to Revolut. Mr Ss bank blocked the payment to his Revolut account and asked 
him questions about it before removing the block. 
After making the £15,000 payment Mr S could see a profit in his trading account. The trader 
kept asking him to pay more but Mr S said he didnt have the funds. The trader then told Mr 
S that the market had crashed and when he checked his account all the funds had gone. Mr 
S was asked to pay more but initially refused. The trader reassured Mr S that she would help 
him to get his money back and offered a £7,500 bonus. Mr S took out another loan for 
£15,000 and transferred it from his Revolut account to his cryptocurrency wallet. The trader 
told Mr S that he was very close to getting his money back but needed to pay a bit more. 
When he refused, the trader made threats. Mr S got scared and took out another loan for 
£10,000 which he also transferred. 
Mr S tried to withdraw funds but received a call from Fs accounts department saying he 
needed to pay more, or he would be liable for substantial costs and fines. He became 
concerned and completed some research which revealed reviews from other people who 
had been scammed by F. Mr S contacted Revolut to report the scam on 14 May 2022.
I have listed below the transfers Mr S made from his Revolut account to his cryptocurrency 
account:
Date Amount
03/05/22 €1,000
09/05/22 €17,000
11/05/22 €17,500
12/05/22 €11,050
Total €46,050
What Revolut say
Revolut didnt agree to refund Mr Ss loss. It referred to preventative resources it provides to 
customers and also said that it set the initial transfer to pending while it enquired about the 
payment purpose and warned Mr S about common scams and indicators of fraud. Revolut 
also noted that it offered Mr S the opportunity to consult with a customer support specialist 
directly via chat before processing the payment. Finally, Revolut said it had attempted to 
recover Mr Ss lost funds. 
Mr S was unhappy with Revoluts response and brought a complaint to this service. He said 
Revolut should refund his loss and his solicitors fees in bringing his complaint on his behalf.
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that the complaint be upheld 
in part. He said that when Mr S attempted to make the second payment of €17,000 Revolut 
sent him a warning that wasnt effective as it wasnt relevant to the scam Mr S fell victim to. If 
Revolut had spoken to Mr S the scam would have been uncovered as there were clear scam 
indicators, such as hearing about the investment opportunity on social media and the fact Mr 
S was asked to download a screen sharing app. But the investigator felt that Mr S should 
also bear responsibility for his loss because he didnt complete any research and continued 
to make payments without receiving a return. 
Ms S accepted the investigators findings, but Revolut did not, so the complaint was passed 
to me to consider. In summary, Revolut said:
- Revolut has no information about Mr Ss interaction with his bank but has been told 
Mr S was asked to go into branch where he said he was transferring funds to Revolut 
to make it easier to make international payments. It considers that if Mr Ss bank was 
unable to establish what was really happening when it met Mr S, Revoluts chat 
support wouldnt have uncovered the scam.
- Given the above, Mr S would have gone ahead with the transaction even if a different 
warning had been given. And if Revolut had asked questions Mr S would have 
followed the fraudsters advice and not told the truth about the reason for the 
payments so the scam wouldnt have been uncovered. Mr S would have just said that 
he was buying cryptocurrency and not mentioned screen sharing or the platform. 
- Mr S was asked to provide a reason for the payment and chose transfer to a safe 
account as he was told by the fraudsters not to use the investment option. This 
demonstrates Mr S wouldnt have answered Revoluts questions honestly (and this 
didnt concern Revolut, as many customers use this option to transfer funds to their 
own safe account).
I considered the complaint and issued my provisional decision on 25 October 2023. In the 
What I provisionally think  and why section I said,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time. In broad terms, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the customers account. A customer will then be responsible 
for those transactions that they have authorised. Its not in dispute here that Mr S authorised the payments. So while I recognise that he didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged 
to follow his instructions and process the payments. Mr S isnt automatically entitled to a 
refund. The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a 
requirement for account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. 
And this includes monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer 
was at risk of financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and 
trying to prevent customers falling victim to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether 
Revolut did enough to try to keep Mr Ss account safe.
I understand that Mr S opened his Revolut account in February 2020 and the reason for 
opening the account was to make transfers. 
When Mr S made the first payment of €1,000 he was shown a new payee warning that said,
Do you know and trust this payee?
If youre unsure, dont pay them, as we may not be able to help you get your money back. 
Remember, fraudsters can impersonate others, and we will never ask you to make a 
payment.
Mr S was asked the purpose of the payment and chose Transfer to a Safe Account. He 
was then shown a warning that said the transaction could be a scam and to beware in 
certain scenarios including if a customer has been contacted by HMRC, asked to make an 
immediate payment, threatened with immediate fines or arrest or has been asked to ignore 
the warning provided. The warning included a link to Revoluts blog about scams and a 
further link to get advice from an agent.
I consider that given the payment reason given  transfer to a safe account  Revolut should 
have done more. Making a payment to a safe account is always a scam, unless this 
payment reason has been chosen in error. So, I consider Revolut should have checked the 
reason for the payment with Mr S. I think its more likely than not that Mr S would have just 
told Revolut he made a mistake. As this payment wasnt unusual and out of character given 
Mr Ss previous account and payment history, I wouldnt have expected Revolut to go 
beyond clarifying the payment reason.
The next payment of €17,000 was totally out of character but no warnings were given at all. 
Mr S hadnt completed any transactions above £1,500 in the twelve-month period before it. 
So, this transaction stood out. It was also to a cryptocurrency exchange. Im not satisfied that 
any warning given six days previously about a payment of €1,000 is sufficient here. 
Im also not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mr Ss own account and so 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within his control should have satisfied Revolut 
that he wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by January 2019, firms like Revolut had, or 
ought to have had, a good enough understanding of how these scams work  including that 
a customer often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to 
the scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud.
Ive gone on to consider whether Revoluts interaction would have uncovered the scam and 
prevented any further loss. On balance, Im not persuaded that it would and will explain why.
I asked the investigator to obtain confidential information from Mr Ss bank about its 
interactions with Mr S when he transferred funds from his account with that bank to Revolut 
before making payments to his own cryptocurrency account. As this information is 
confidential, I cant provide any detail here, but Mr S will be aware of the nature of the 
conversations he had with his own bank. What I will say is that Mr S wasnt honest with his 
bank about the reason for the payment to his Revolut account and that he didnt say he was 
investing. But I cant see that Mr S could have used the same payment reason he gave his 
bank when communicating with Revolut. This is because he was making a payment to a 
cryptocurrency exchange, and this would have been a huge red flag.Ive thought carefully about whether Revolut could have uncovered the scam if Mr S had 
said he was investing, as I consider it likely he would have. But given that Mr S had followed 
the scammers instructions to take out a loan, transfer loan funds to his Revolut account and 
to lie to his bank about the reason for doing so, Im not satisfied Mr S would have been open 
and honest with Revolut in his responses to any questions asked, whether via the app or in a 
call. I dont believe Mr S would have said that someone was helping him with the investment, 
that a screen sharing app was involved or that he was using loan funds to make the 
payments. It seems to me that Mr S followed the scammers instructions without question or 
research and that it wouldnt have been possible for Revolut to break the spell. In the 
circumstances, I dont consider further intervention by Revolut would have made a difference 
so I cant fairly ask it to refund any of Mr Ss lost funds. 
For completeness, the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this case for 
a few reasons, including the fact that Revolut hasnt signed up to it and Mr S made 
payments from his Revolut account to an account in his own name rather than to another 
person.
I realise Mr S will be extremely disappointed to hear my provisional decision. I will consider 
any points he wishes to raise in response to this provisional decision.
Revolut didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr S representative let me know that he 
rejects it but didnt provide any reasons or additional points for me to consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has raised any additional points or arguments, I see no reason to depart 
from my provisional decision which is set out above. On balance, I dont consider further 
intervention by Revolut would have prevented Mr S loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman