DRN-3736401
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited irresponsibly provided her with, 
and increased the credit limit on, a mail order account so she couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
Shop Direct provided Mrs S with a credit account in November 2017. The initial credit limit 
was £400. The limit increased in stages as follows:
30/6/2018 £500
22/9/2018 £675
15/12/2018 £800
12/1/2019 £1,050
6/4/2019 £1,450
The limit was reduced to £1,250 in June 2019 and thereafter wasnt increased. Mrs S fell into 
serious arrears with payments after that and I understand was making payments under a 
payment arrangement until December 2021. She complained that the credit was 
irresponsibly provided to her and the limit increased whilst she was only receiving a state 
pension.
Shop Direct said that it conducted appropriate and proportionate checks that considered
the information provided at application as well as external credit data. It was satisfied the 
credit provided to Mrs S at the time of application and during the lifetime of the account was 
appropriate.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our adjudicator said that because Mrs S 
missed or underpaid on the account before the first limit increase, that Shop Direct should 
have carried out further checks. Having reviewed Mrs Ss bank statements our adjudicator 
said that Mrs S didnt have sufficient disposable income to afford the credit after the first 
increase.
Shop Direct disagreed, pointing out that Mrs S updated her income several times and each 
time this was verified by the credit reference agency. It also said Mrs S had multiple bank 
accounts.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did Shop Direct complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mrs S would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs S would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where Shop Direct ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Ss 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
I have seen Shop Directs data from the time of the application, although that is limited to an 
overall summary of Mrs Ss accounts, and the history of this account, including the spending 
and the increases in the credit limit. But apart from that I dont have information about any 
income and expenditure checks. And although Shop Direct says it checked Mrs Ss credit 
record at the time of each credit limit increase, I havent seen evidence of those checks. 
Mrs S has shown us her bank statements from the time but Ive not seen any other evidence 
of her credit position. She has explained that the other accounts she has are an ISA which 
she cant afford to deposit money into, and a save the change account which she transfers 
back into her main account. 
At the time of providing the credit account in November 2017 Shop Direct established that 
Mrs S had one account that was in default but she didnt appear to be in arrears on any 
other accounts. Bering in mind the small amount of credit provided at that stage, I am 
inclined to say that Shop Directs checks were proportionate and that it was reasonable to 
provide the account with that initial credit.
In December 2017 Mrs S missed a payment, then in January 2018 paid about £20 less than 
the minimum due. Then in April 2018 she missed a further payment.  Yet still Shop Direct 
said that the account was well maintained. The credit limit was raised by £100 in June 2018, 
although Mrs S immediately fell short in the monthly payment by £10. But the limit was 
increased again in September 2018. Her payment fell short again in November 2018, 
although Shop Direct saw fit to increase the limit again in December 2018. But Mrs Ss 
payment that month was short by over £43. She was short on two further payments, in 
January 2019 and February 2019 after which the limit was again increased in April 2019. It 
was only after she fell short on the May 2019 payment and missed the June 2019 payment 
that Shop Direct decided to decrease the limit.
I would say that missing a payment early on and then failing to make the minimum payments 
were fairly clear indicators that Mrs S was struggling to make the payments, Whilst she did 
bring the account up to date, its clear from her bank statements she was borrowing money 
from relatives to keep up her payments. I think at the very least Shop Direct should have 
carried out further checks, including a review of Mrs Ss income and expenditure. This might 
have included looking at her bank account. And as Ive said this showed that she was only 
managing to keep in credit because of payments from relatives.
I think, because of Mrs Ss failure to meet the whole minimum payment on occasions and 
missing two payments at the outset and the likely information Shop Direct would have 
obtained had it checked her income and expenditure further that it shouldnt have increased 
the limit on the card beyond the initial limit. I think it likely that the payments for the card 
were unsustainable.Putting things right
As I dont think Shop Direct should have increased Mrs Ss credit limit above [£400, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit. However, Mrs S has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I 
think she should pay this back. Therefore, Shop Direct should take the following actions:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to balances 
above £400. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs S along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. Shop Direct should also remove all adverse information recorded after 30 June 
2018 regarding this account from Mrs Ss credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £400, Shop Direct should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs S for the remaining amount. Once Mrs S has 
cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 30 June 2018 in 
relation to the account should be removed from her credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Shop Direct to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. 
If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Shop Direct Finance Company Limited to provide the 
remedy set out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman