DRN-3305326
The complaint
Mr H complains about the service plan fee imposed by Interactive Investor Services Limited 
(IISL). He says he wasnt told that the fee would increase, and he didnt consent to it. 
What happened
In August 2013 Mr H held an investment account with a predecessor business. In 
December 2017 the investment account was migrated across to IISL and from January 2018 
Mr H was charged a quarterly fee of £22.50 for the use of the IISL platform. In June 2019, 
IISL changed its pricing structure and it charged £9.99 a month for its basic investor plan.
IISL says that on 19 April 2019 it sent Mr H a secure message to his online account notifying 
him of the new fee structure that was due to start from June 2019. IISL says that Mr H 
wouldve received an email prompt, telling him to login to his online account to view his 
messages. 
Mr H says that he didnt receive any correspondence about changes to the fee structure, so 
he wasnt aware of what was happening. He also says he had difficulty in accessing his 
online account and thinks IISL couldve called him to inform him of the changes. Mr H would 
like a refund of the fees paid and compensation to recognise the inconvenience it has 
caused him.
 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
short, he said, IISL was entitled to change its charging structure. He said it was likely the 
email notification was sent and he was satisfied that IISL hadnt logged any enquiries about 
Mr H experiencing difficulties in accessing his account. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view. He maintained that he reported issues to IISL 
about accessing his account and affirmed he wanted a refund of the fees paid. 
As no agreement was reached the matter has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, on the face of the evidence, Im satisfied IISL has acted fairly and 
reasonably in Mr Hs case, Ill explain why. 
Id like to note that my role isnt to punish the business for any regulatory breaches, thats the 
role of the industry regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. My role is to decide if IISL has 
done anything wrong and where appropriate award redress for any financial losses for which 
its responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
A financial business is entitled, in the reasonable exercise of its legitimate commercial 
judgement to set its own fees. So, I cant say that IISL has done anything wrong by changing 
its fee structure if it informed its customers of the change. Its not for us to tell a business 
how to run its affairs. 
On balance, despite what Mr H has said, Im satisfied he was sent proper notice about the 
changes to the fee structure. Ive seen a screenshot which shows communication was sent 
to his online account on several occasions in 2017 before the changes occurred. I note Mr H 
said he had difficulty in accessing his account until recently, but I have nothing to support 
this. 
Whilst I havent been provided with the actual documents sent, I think its more likely than 
not they were sent. Ive looked at the email address IISL had for Mr H and it matches our 
records. So, whilst I dont dispute Mr Hs notification mightve gone unread, I cant hold IISL 
responsible for that. Therefore, Im unable to safely say that he is entitled to a refund of the 
fees following the restructure. I also think its unlikely that Mr H wouldnt have received a 
single message notifying him of the upcoming changes. 
IISL has also provided me with contact information from Mr H and theres nothing to 
evidence Mr H contacting it about difficulty in accessing his account. But Ive seen Mr H did 
make contact about other issues he had and made changes to his personal information. If he 
was unable to access his account, there was nothing stopping him from getting in touch with 
the business to find out why that was. 
Im mindful that as an execution-only online platform, most of IISLs communication is done 
electronically. It wasnt obliged to treat Mr H differently to other customers simply because it 
had Mr Hs contact number. I dont think it has done anything wrong by not calling Mr H to 
inform him about the changes. And Ive not seen anything to suggest IISL was asked to 
communicate with Mr H over the phone. If it had been asked to do so, I think its more likely 
than not IISL wouldve called him. 
I understand my decision will come as a considerable disappointment to Mr H but I hope he 
can understand the reasons why Ive reached it  and that Ive done so only after careful 
consideration of the evidence and the particular circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman