DRN-2019705
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr K complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mrs B and Mr K took out a mortgage with Bradford & Bingley in 1988. Around the same time, 
they took out a PPI policy to protect their monthly mortgage payments. Mrs B and Mr K paid 
a monthly premium for the policy.
The policy covered Mr K. If hed made a successful claim on the policy for accident, sickness 
it would have paid a monthly benefit of £100 until he returned to work. And it would have 
paid the same monthly benefit for up to 24 months per successful claim for unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he said that Mr K 
suffered from two on-going medical conditions when he took the policy. And he didnt think 
Mr K would have taken out the policy if Bradford & Bingley had drawn his attention to the fact 
that he wouldnt be able to make a successful accident or sickness claim if it resulted from 
an existing medical condition.
Bradford & Bingley disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed to 
me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs B and Mr Ks case.
Ive decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy didnt cover sickness claims if they were caused by any condition for which the 
policyholder had sought medical treatment during the 12 months before the policy started, or 
any recurring disease which recurred during the first 12 months of insurance.
Mrs B and Mr K have been consistent in telling us that Mr K had been diagnosed with two 
long-term medical conditions a few years before they took out the mortgage. Hed had time 
off work as a result of the conditions and was on daily medication for them. 
Bradford & Bingley has commented in response to the adjudicators view that Mr K didnt tell 
it when the policy was sold if he had any medical conditions. And it says if it was unaware of 
any medical issues at the point of sale, it cant be held responsible now for Mr Ks complaint.
I disagree. As Bradford & Bingley has pointed out, the PPI was sold on a non-advised basis. 
This means it didnt need to check that the policy was suitable for Mr K. But it did have a 
duty to make sure that it gave Mrs B and Mr K clear enough information about the PPI to 
allow them to make their own informed decision about whether to take the cover.
Bradford & Bingley has said it was up to [Mr K and Mrs B] to read the terms and conditions 
to decide if they wanted to take out the PPI policy. And its referred to section 22 of the 
mortgage application, in which it says it asked if there are any known medical conditions 
which may become the subject of a claim.
But Ive seen a copy of Mrs B and Mr Ks mortgage application form, and I dont agree that it 
asks them whether there are any known medical conditions. Rather, under the heading 
Select Payment Protection Insurance it says:
Either or both applicants, or a guarantor, are eligible for this cover on completion of the 
loan, if under normal State retirement age and except in relation to:-
1. Impending redundancy or employment
2.Known medical conditions which may become the subject of a claim.
The applicant is not asked to state whether they have any medical conditions.
Bradford & Bingley has told us that Mrs B and Mr K applied for the mortgage during a 
meeting. I cant be sure what was said during the meeting. But Im not satisfied that including 
the reference to known medical conditions in small print on page 8 of the mortgage 
application form - a detailed document  would have been enough to draw Mrs B and Mr Ks 
attention to the fact that any claims arising from Mr Ks existing, long-term medical conditions 
were unlikely to be covered.
And I think its most likely that if Bradford & Bingley had drawn Mrs B and Mr Ks attention 
clearly to what I consider to have been a significant limitation, they wouldnt have taken out 
the PPI.
Putting things right
Bradford & Bingley should put Mrs B and Mr K in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt 
taken out PPI. So Bradford & Bingley should:
Pay Mrs B and Mr K the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mrs B and Mr K made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Bradford & Bingley can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Bradford & Bingley to take off tax from this interest. 
Bradford & Bingley must give Mrs B and Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its taken 
off if they ask for one.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Bradford & Bingley Plc to put things right 
by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman