DRN-4096060
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs G are unhappy that AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited offered a 
reduced settlement amount for a claim they made on their home insurance policy.
As Mr G has primarily dealt with things, for simplicity Ill refer to him only.
Reference to AA includes its agents and representatives.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint arent in dispute, so Ill summarise the main points:
In 2020, Mr G took out contents insurance online. The policy was underwritten by AA.
Following a break in at his home, Mr G got in touch with AA to claim for stolen 
contents, mostly jewellery.
AA said Mr G hadnt given accurate information when taking out the policy. Hed said 
it would cost £40,000 to replace his contents but AA thought an estimate of over 
£90,000 would have been more accurate. AA said if it had known Mr G had more 
than £75,000 of contents, it wouldnt have offered insurance to him. As a result, it 
voided the policy (treating it as if it never existed) and declined the claim.
Mr G didnt think this was fair. He said much of his contents, particularly electronic 
devices and kitchen appliances, were insured elsewhere so he didnt see a benefit of 
also insuring them under this policy and including them within the sum insured.
Our investigator didnt think AA had acted fairly. Whilst she agreed that Mr G hadnt 
provided a reasonable answer to the question about the value of his contents, she 
wasnt persuaded that voiding the policy was a fair response. She thought that when 
estimating the contents value, AA took into account several items that were part of 
the buildings  so they shouldnt have been included. Removing these items reduced 
the value of the contents to below £75,000  in which case AA would have offered a 
policy to Mr G.
As a result, our investigator thought AA should deal with the claim, noting that it may 
be able to proportionately settle the claim if Mr G would have paid a higher premium 
for £75,000 of contents cover.
Mr G accepted what our investigator said. AA didnt. In summary it said:
oIt questioned whether Mr G had insured any of his items elsewhere and 
asked for evidence if so.
oMr G hadnt specified any items, so the claim may not be paid in full as the 
policy includes certain limits for unspecified items.
oOne of the items our investigator thought AA shouldnt have included in its 
estimate referred to three built in wardrobes. AA said that might mean the 
contents within the wardrobes rather than the wardrobes themselves. It noted 
its own estimate didnt include clothing, amongst other things, so it was 
incomplete. It said this was a result of Mr G being reluctant to assist.
oIt wouldnt have offered Mr G a policy if his contents were worth more than 
£75,000 in total. It said it would also have declined to offer a policy if Mr G 
had valuables worth more than £5,000 in total or any single items worth more 
than £5,000.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change her mind. She questioned whether AA 
had asked Mr G about the replacement cost of his valuables when taking out the 
policy. AA didnt respond to that point and asked for the case to be passed to an 
Ombudsman for a final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AA has voided the policy and declined to deal with the claim because it doesnt think Mr G 
gave accurate information when taking out the policy. At that time, it asked Mr G how much 
would it cost to replace the entire contents of your home as new (including all valuables and 
high risk items)? Mr G said £40,000.
After the policy was setup, AA sent Mr G policy documents including a statement of fact. 
This document reiterated that Mr G had £40,000 cover for all his contents to be replaced as 
new. It also noted valuables were covered up to £7,500.
Im satisfied AA was clear with Mr G that his contents sum insured should represent the 
replacement cost of all of his contents as new. Whilst Mr G may have warranties and/or 
other policies in place that might cover some of his contents, AA was clear it wanted to know 
about all of his items. AA is entitled to ask this in order to assess the risk of providing 
insurance to Mr G, including what premium to charge and what terms to set. Although I 
recognise Mr G may have wanted to avoid insuring some of his items twice, he had a 
responsibility to give a reasonable answer to the question asked.
But even if I were to disregard the items Mr G thought he could exclude, they were electronic 
devices and kitchen appliances. However, the list of stolen jewellery alone, which Mr G 
doesnt say he had alternative cover for, has been valued at greater than £40,000. Mr G 
hasnt challenged this jewellery valuation or provided any alternative valuations. So Im 
satisfied his answer was unreasonable even if I agreed he could reasonably have excluded 
items insured elsewhere. As a result, like the investigator, I dont think its relevant whether 
Mr G did indeed have insurance elsewhere  his answer was unreasonable based solely on 
the jewellery.
The question then is what impact the unreasonable answer had on AA  and what action it 
can take to fairly address that impact.
AA has shown underwriting evidence which persuades me it wouldnt have offered a policy 
to a customer with more than £75,000 of contents. So if Mr G ought reasonably to have said 
he had more than £75,000 of contents, I would likely find it fair for AA to void the policy. But 
if he should have said £75,000 or less, I wouldnt.AA says Mr G had over £90,000 of contents. This estimate was made by a company 
appointed by AA. It says Mr G was reluctant to assist it, but no evidence to show this has 
been provided. The estimate includes items such as wooden floor in all rooms, hot water 
cylinder and boiler and radiators, and built in wardrobes in three rooms. These all sound 
like part of the buildings  not the contents. Our investigator questioned these items and AA 
only responded about the wardrobes. So it seems to accept other items shouldnt have been 
on the list. It didnt seem clear whether the wardrobe item meant the wardrobe itself or the 
contents of the wardrobe, saying that the list was incomplete.
Ultimately AA is saying that Mr G hasnt insured his contents for a high enough amount. To 
reach this conclusion, AA is relying solely on an estimate presented by a company it 
appointed. Yet it seems to accept the estimate includes items of buildings, isnt sure what all 
the items are and says Mr G has caused the list to be incomplete  without providing 
evidence to support that position. Because of this, Im not persuaded the estimate is reliable 
enough to justify the impact on Mr G  of not only having his claim declined but also voiding 
his policy, which can have a lasting significant negative impact on a consumer.
Even if I were to take the estimate at face value and remove the disputed items, as the 
investigator has, it would show that Mr G should have insured his contents for around 
£75,000. So even if Mr G had provided a reasonable answer, AA would have offered him a 
policy. In these circumstances, Im not satisfied it would be fair for AA to void the policy.
After our investigator shared her findings, AA said there were other reasons why it wouldnt 
have insured Mr G. I would have expected it to consider and explain these reasons when 
responding to Mr Gs complaint  not after our investigation was already well under way. 
Nonetheless, Ive thought about what AA has said when making my decision.
AA says it wouldnt have offered contents cover if any single item of valuables and/or all 
valuables combined were worth more than £5,000. However, it hasnt provided any 
underwriting evidence to support that. Nor did it respond when our investigator asked 
whether the online sale included a question along these lines to Mr G. And I note its 
statement of fact says it covers valuable up to £7,500, which seems to contradict what AA 
has said. So, Im not persuaded these reasons make a difference to my finding above.
To put things right, AA should reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy. As its pointed out, there may be policy limits 
which fairly apply to Mr Gs claim  but thats something for AA to think about when it 
considers the claim.
When considering the claim, it may be fair for AA to proportionately reduce any settlement it 
offers. If Mr G would have been charged a higher premium for £75,000 of cover than he was 
for £40,000 of cover, AA has received less premium than it should have done. As a result, 
its entitled to pay a reduced claim settlement. That should usually be in line with the 
proportion of premium paid compared to the premium that should have been paid. If AA 
applies a proportionate settlement, it should take into account the impact of any policy limits.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited to:
Remove any records of policy voidance from any internal or external databases.
Reinstate the policy.
Reconsider the claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and 
the points above about proportionate settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman