DRN-3411482
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited maintained its decision 
to decline their claim on their home insurance after they provided further information. 
What happened
In late 2019 Mr and Mrs M noticed a leak onto their patio, it was later identified that water 
had leaked from a neighbouring property. In July 2020 Mr and Mrs M made a claim on their 
home insurance with Lloyds. It sent out a contractor to inspect the damage but later declined 
the claim as it said there was no evidence the leak had caused damage to their patio.
Mr and Mrs M subsequently brought a complaint about the declinature to this service. An 
ombudsman issued a decision on the matter that didnt uphold the complaint.
Since this complaint Mr and Mrs M provided additional information to support their claim. 
They provided photos of the patio before the damage and said this showed the damage that 
had been caused by the leak. On receipt of the photos, Lloyds said this didnt change its 
position on the claim. It said that there was still no evidence to link the leak to the damage to 
Mr and Mrs Ms patio.
Mr and Mrs M made another complaint but Lloyds didnt uphold it. So they brought it to this 
service.
Our investigator considered the issues but didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She 
said she didnt think there was enough evidence to say the damage to the patio was caused 
by the leak from the neighbours pipe and therefore thought Lloyds had acted fairly by 
maintaining its position to decline the claim.
Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs M asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service has already decided on a previous complaint about this claim and 
concluded that Lloyds original declinature was fair. Therefore I am only considering 
whether its decision to maintain this position in light of the new evidence was fair and 
I wont address points that have already been considered in our previous decision.
In order for a successful home insurance claim, the policyholder needs to show that 
there has been an insured peril  something covered under the policy, and that this 
has caused damage to their home. 
Mr and Mrs M had already proved there was an insured peril  the escape of water 
from their neighbours pipe. And the further photos provided since the last complaint, 
demonstrated that their patio has been damaged. So there is no dispute that there 
was an escape of water and that Mr and Mrs Ms patio is damaged.
However while the photos show that the patio is now in a worse condition than it was, 
they dont show what caused the damage, and thats the critical point for the claim to 
succeed. 
There are many different reasons why the patio may now be in the condition it is. 
However in order to have a successful claim, Lloyds need to be satisfied that it is 
because of something covered in the property. And I dont think the new evidence is 
enough to show this. 
The water leak was from a source a number of houses away. And the photos of the 
patio before and after the damage show that there is discolouring of the tiles, pooling 
water and holes in the cement. But this isnt consistent with a leak from such a 
distance. And Ive seen no further evidence to show that the damage has been 
caused by the leak.
So based on the new evidence, I dont think theres enough to show a successful 
claim. Therefore Im satisfied Lloyds has made a fair decision to maintain its decline 
of the claim and I wont ask it to do anything further.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive give, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 October 2022.
 
Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman