DRN-3566300
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Metro Bank PLC didnt cancel the direct debits on his account when he 
asked them to and that hes incurred adverse reporting on his credit file as a result.
What happened
In June 2018, Mr J telephoned Metro and asked them to cancel the direct debits on his 
account as he was experiencing financial difficulty at that time. However, while Metro 
cancelled most of the direct debits, they left two direct debits active and uncancelled. When 
the payments for these direct debits were applied for, they were returned as unpaid because 
Mr J didnt have sufficient funds in his bank account to pay them. This caused Mr J to incur 
fees and to become overdrawn on his account, which was later defaulted for non-payment of 
arrears by Metro. Mr J wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint.
Metro looked at Mr Js complaint. They said that Mr J had only asked for some of the direct 
debits on his account to be cancelled, and that the two direct debits that had remained active 
had done so at Mr Js instruction. As such, Metro didnt feel that theyd acted unfairly 
towards Mr J in the manner that Mr J contended, and they didnt uphold his complaint. Mr J 
wasnt satisfied with Metros response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they also didnt feel Metro had acted 
unfairly towards Mr J in how theyd managed the situation, and so they also didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr J remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J firmly believes that he instructed Metro to cancel all the direct debits on his account 
when he spoke with them in June 2018. Metro, on the other hand, believe Mr J didnt ask for 
all his direct debits to be cancelled, but only some of them. And unfortunately, because of 
the passing of time, Metro no longer hold a recording of the telephone call in question, 
meaning that the call cant be listened to so as to definitively resolve the issue.
In circumstances such as this, where the position of the complainant consumer and the 
respondent business are at odds with one another, I have to decide  if its reasonably 
possible to do so  which of the two versions of events I feel is more likely to have 
happened, on balance, and in consideration of all the information and evidence available.
In this instance, while the recording of the telephone call from June 2018 is no longer 
available, Metro have been able to provide a copy of the written contact note typed by the 
Metro agent who took that call. This contact note records that Mr J asked for specific direct 
debits to be cancelled, and the note lists ten direct debits that Mr J wanted cancelling. 
Importantly, this list doesnt include the two direct debits that remained active on Mr Js 
account and which form the basis of Mr Js current complaint.
I feel its notable here that Metros agent didnt simply record that Mr J asked for all his direct 
debits to be cancelled, but instead typed out a list of ten specific direct debits. This suggests 
to me that its more likely that Mr J didnt ask for all the direct debits on his account to be 
cancelled in June 2017, because if he did, I feel that Metros agent would simply have typed 
that Mr J requested all direct debits to be cancelled, and wouldnt have gone to the trouble of 
typing out the ten specific direct debits that were then cancelled by that agent. 
Given the above, I find it very difficult to conclude that it can be fairly or reasonably 
hypothesised that Mr J did most likely request that all the direct debits on his account be 
cancelled in June 2017, which in turn makes it very difficult for me to consider upholding this 
complaint as Mr J would like.
It's also notable from Mr Js account statements that it wasnt the case that it was because of 
the two uncancelled direct debits that his account fell into a position of arrears. Indeed, the 
account statements show that Mr Js account fell into arrears because of unpaid direct debits 
towards the end of May 2017, a few weeks before the telephone call in June 2017.
Im aware that Mr J feels that Metro have admitted to him that they should have cancelled all 
the direct debits as he requested and that this is evidenced by Metro reimbursing £150 of 
unpaid direct debit charges plus interest to him. However, Metro have no record of admitting 
their error in the manner that Mr J contends, and theyve been able to confirm to my 
satisfaction that while they did issue a reimbursement of charges to Mr J, that this was part 
of a remediation project where it had been decided by Metro to reimburse charges to 
customers who hadnt received an appropriate notification from Metro that the first attempt to 
take their direct debit had been unsuccessful, and wasnt in any way an admission that the 
attempt to take a direct debit shouldnt have taken place.
Ive considered the reimbursement of £150 plus interest to Mr J carefully, given that the 
reimbursement was made to Mr J after his account had been defaulted for non-payment by 
Metro, and that the arrears that had been present on Mr Js account up to the point of default 
had never exceeded £150. But having done so, Im satisfied that these unpaid direct debit 
charges were reimbursed for something tertiary to this complaint  specifically, the wording 
of the missed payment messages that Mr J received from Metro  and that it was therefore 
reasonable for Metro to have applied those charges to Mr Js account in the first instance. 
And it follows from the above that Im satisfied Metro didnt unfairly administer the balance of 
Mr Js account and that it was reasonable for Metro to consider Mr Js account as being in 
arrears when they did.
All of which means I find it very difficult to conclude that Metro have acted unfairly towards 
Mr J as he contends here. This isnt to declare that Mr J definitely didnt ask Metro to cancel 
all the direct debits on his account, but only that I feel that on balance, and in consideration 
of all the information available to me, its my position that Mr J most likely didnt ask Metro to 
cancel all the direct debits on his account. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr J was wanting, but given my position as described 
above, I hope hell understand why I feel that the only final decision I can reasonably issue 
here is that I will not be upholding this complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman