DRN-3999773
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
On 13 June 2022 Mr W had an accident in his car in another country. He arranged for the 
car to be towed away and contacted UKI to make a claim. UKI offered the option of having 
the car repaired in the country where the accident occurred or for his vehicle to be 
repatriated to the UK for repairs.
Mr W wanted the car brought back to the UK to be repaired by a main dealership. The 
dealership wasnt an approved repairer but UKI agreed and arranged the repatriation. They 
also explained that as it wasnt an approved repairer, it impacted his cover for a hire car. 
First indicating he would be entitled but with limitations and later explaining he wasnt entitled 
to a hire car but could claim for travel costs.
UKI arranged for the repatriation the same day and on 17 and 21 June 2022 they let Mr W 
know the estimated date for delivery would be 8 July 2022. As the car didnt arrive back on 
the estimated date Mr W chased it up several times as he was also being chased by the 
storage facility. He was then given a date of 18 July 2022. It took 37 days for his vehicle to 
be repatriated and as he was unhappy with the time taken and UKIs handling of the claim 
he made a complaint.
In their final response, UKI accepted it had taken some time to recover the car back to the 
UK and there had been unnecessary delays. They offered £200 compensation by way of an 
apology.
Our investigator felt UKI had taken too long to repatriate the car and considering the impact 
of it, felt UKI should pay £500 to compensate for the distress and inconvenience and loss of 
use. Mr W accepted this but UKI didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
In January 2023, I issued a provisional decision which said:
I understand Mr Ws strength of feeling in relation to this complaint. Whilst I have considered 
all the information provided by both parties, I havent commented on all of it. This isnt meant 
as a discourtesy but reflects the informal nature of this service.
UKI have a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. The terms and conditions set 
out the agreement between UKI and Mr W and detail what is and isnt covered. 
In relation to the provision of a hire car, the terms explain that cover is provided if the loss or 
damage happens within the territorial limits. And that when an incident occurs outside of 
territorial limits, like in this case, a hire car isnt provided. Instead, the insured is entitled to 
claim for any travel costs incurred up to £50 per day and up to a total of £500.
UKI had made a mistake in telling Mr W he was entitled to a hire car, but this has since been 
corrected. Ive considered the impact of this below but can see they also told Mr W he could 
claim for any travel costs instead in line with the policy terms and conditions.
The car repatriation took 37 days, delaying the repair of it, meaning Mr W had to cancel 
plans he had made to use the car. He also found himself acting as a middleman between the 
storage facility and the contactors who were repatriating the car due to the further delay.
UKI have accepted there was a delay as the car shouldve been collected on 8 July 2022. 
And have offered £200 compensation to account for this and the service provided. However, 
I dont think this fairly compensates Mr W for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W was given the estimated date of 8 July 2022, but this was over three weeks since the 
accident. Im aware UKI have advised that they use a more cost-effective way of getting 
vehicles repatriated and I know there were issues with space on the lorry that was due to 
collect the vehicle initially. It seems this was likely due to the backlogs the contactors told 
Mr W about when he called them for an update.
I think nearly three weeks to repatriate a car from Europe is a little excessive but given the 
backlogs explained to Mr W, I can understand why this was the case. However, the car 
wasnt collected for a further ten days which is an unreasonable delay. Taking account of 
this as well as the incorrect information given about a hire car and the calls Mr W had to 
make to get things moving and keep the storage facility updated, I think £300 is a fairer 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused.
Im aware Mr W feels more compensation is warranted as he didnt have the use of his car 
for a prolonged period. However, this has been considered within the distress and 
inconvenience award of £300. Mr W hasnt claimed for any travel costs and Ive not seen 
anything to suggest he has incurred any extra out of pocket expenses as a result of this.
For the reasons explained above, but subject to any further information I receive from either 
Mr W or UK Insurance Limited, my provisional decision is that UK Insurance Limited should 
pay Mr W £300 in total for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr W felt more compensation was due given the lengthy delay and inconvenience he 
experienced. Hes also provided information showing he was charged a £50 excess when he 
claimed for travel costs from his travel insurance provider. 
UKI didnt respond to the decision itself but did agree to cover the £50 excess Mr W had 
incurred.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont underestimate the inconvenience Mr W experienced and Im aware of the efforts he 
went to in order to simplify the process. But Im satisfied there were reasons behind the initial 
delay which Ive explained in my provisional decision. Taking into account the avoidable 
delay, and the timeframe involved, I consider £300 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. UKI have also agreed to cover the £50 excess Mr W incurred. So overall Im 
satisfied that £350 fairly compensates Mr W. My final decision
My final decision is that U K Insurance Limited should pay Mr W £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Karin Hutchinson
Ombudsman