DRN-4427796
The complaint
Miss C and Mr R have complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold 
them a fee-paying joint Reward Black account on 28 November 2016. Miss C and Mr R say 
that it was mis-sold on the basis that they were told that if they kept £100,000 in their 
account, they would not have to pay the monthly account fee. However, Miss C and Mr R 
have recently noticed that they have in fact been charged the monthly account fee since 
their joint account was upgraded to the Reward Black account.
Miss C and Mr R have also complained that a standing order was set up on Mr Rs sole 
account which transferred £28 from his account into the joint Reward Black account. Miss C 
and Mr R say this standing order was set up on Mr Rs account without his consent or 
knowledge.
What happened
NatWest said that Miss C and Mr R have complained too late about the sale of the joint 
Reward Black account i.e. that Miss C and Mr R were misled into thinking they would get the 
account for free. NatWest also didnt think it had done anything wrong in relation to the 
standing order that was set up on Mr Rs account, although it was unable to say why it had 
been set up and paid Mr R £200 to apologise for the matter.
Our investigators initially assessed the mis-selling complaint, and they agreed that Miss C 
and Mr R had complained outside of the six-year and three-year time limits that apply when 
using our service.
An Investigator then issued an assessment regarding the standing order on Mr Rs account, 
and they didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss C and Mr R didnt agree with the assessments. One of our investigators spoke to 
Miss C and Mr R on 30 October 2023, whereby it was confirmed that the mis-sale complaint 
was raised too late for our service to consider that part of the complaint. Miss C and Mr R 
accepted that it was something our service couldnt consider. It was confirmed that Miss C 
and Mr R did want an ombudsman to consider the complaint about the standing order that 
had been set up on Mr Rs account without his consent.
Because the matter relating to the sale of the Reward Black account is something that our 
service is unable to consider, this decision will only address Miss C and Mr Rs concerns 
about the standing order that was set up on Mr Rs account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed, everything, Im unable to agree that NatWest has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter. I will explain why.
Firstly, I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is 
incomplete, as is the case here, I need to decide what I think was most likely to have 
happened, based on everything that is available.
In this case, Mr R says that a standing order was set up on his account to transfer £28 at the 
start of each month, to the joint Reward Black account that he held with Miss C. Mr R 
doesnt have any recollection of this and appears to be saying that it was set up without his 
consent.
NatWest has explained that due to the passage of time since the standing order was set up, 
it no longer has any records to show how the standing order was set up. But due to the data 
retention requirements for banks, I dont think it is particularly unusual or unexpected that 
NatWest no longer has any detailed information about how the standing order was set up. 
So, I have had to consider this complaint based on everything that is available. 
Firstly, I note that the standing order was set up to transfer money into another one of Mr Rs 
own accounts  rather than to someone elses account. I also note that the amount 
transferred also happens to be the same amount as the monthly account fee for the Reward 
Black current account. In the circumstances, I think its most likely the case that the standing 
order was set up (either by Mr R or by a member of staff with Mr Rs consent) so that the 
monthly account fee on his joint account was covered by money held in his sole account. I 
say this especially as the standing order looks to have been set up around the same time 
that the joint account was upgraded to being a fee-paying Reward Black account. 
I understand that Miss C and Mr R have complained the Reward Black account was mis-
sold, as they say they were led to believe theyd get the account for free. So they say that 
they should never have been charged the £28 fee in the first place. But as we cant consider 
that aspect of their complaint, I cant comment further on that matter in this decision.
I appreciate that Mr R doesnt have any recollection of the standing order being set up. But I 
dont think its likely that NatWest wouldve done this without his consent or knowledge. 
Afterall, there was no benefit or incentive to NatWest in doing so. In the circumstances, I 
think its much more likely that Mr R did agree to it, but due to how long ago it was set up, he 
now cant remember doing so. 
I acknowledge that Miss C has said that Mr R was unaware of the monthly transfer from his 
account as he doesnt use the account. However, I can see that the transfers did appear on 
Mr Rs account statements every month since December 2016. So, Im satisfied that 
NatWest did what it needed to do in terms of making Mr R aware of the regular transfers 
occurring on his account. And although Mr R mayve chosen not to look at his bank 
statements or check that the transactions on his account were correct, I cant reasonably 
hold NatWest responsible for him not noticing the regular transfers being made from his 
account over what is a considerable period of time.
So, taking everything into account, Im not able to say that NatWest has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in this matter.   
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman