DRN-1552330
 
Complaint
Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
What happened
Mr R took out a PPI policy for a mortgage in 1991. Mr R paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered him in case he was off sick or out 
of work for an extended period.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Rs case. 
Having done that, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
This sale was nearly three decades ago, and the accounts involved have long since closed. 
So I think its understandable that neither side still have the original documents from the 
sale. Indeed, under data protection rules, Halifax were required to dispose of Mr Rs data 
rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr R doesnt remember buying PPI, and I also think 
thats understandable given that buying insurance is not often memorable and this sale was 
particularly long ago. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based 
on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr R into having PPI. But 
I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with its sales process from the time.  And this sale was too long ago for me to 
reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce documents from the time to defend itself 
now. So I dont have any fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr R. I think its 
more likely that it followed a relatively normal sales process, offered Mr R PPI, and he chose 
it at the time  though I can understand if he no longer recalls doing so after so long.
Its not clear whether Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr R, or not. The requirements were 
stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr R, Ive assumed it did. That 
means Halifax had to check the policy was right for him. And based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, it looks like Mr R was eligible for the 
cover and wasnt affected by any of its main exclusions or limitations.I do understand that Mr R feels he had sufficient cover at the time. But redundancies can 
and do happen, even in positions or industries that may feel secure, and long-term sickness 
or unemployment is always a risk. From what Mr R has told us, his sick pay reduced to just a 
fraction of his normal pay after a handful of months, and he had just one months savings 
and redundancy pay. This mortgage was secured against Mr Rs property, so if he fell 
behind on his repayments he couldve lost his home. So without PPI, he was at serious risk if 
he was off sick or out of work for an extended period. And the PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of his existing benefits and covered him for far longer  up to 24 months in any one sickness 
claim, for instance. Further, the mortgage was a significant, long-term commitment, and 
there was no guarantee that Mr R would have the same benefits or be as secure in his 
position or industry in the many years to come. So I think this policy was suitable for Mr R  
it could have really been useful for him in protecting his home and providing some peace of 
mind in case he fell on difficult times.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr R about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed his 
mind. But as I explained above, Mr R wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy 
didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for him in case something went wrong. The 
policy was competitively priced given how much it would pay out in a claim. And the PPI was 
paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr R could cancel it at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont think better information was likely to have put him off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman