DRN-1515855
The complaint
Mrs K has complained that her TSB Bank plc (TSB) debit card failed to work at non-TSB 
ATM machines for an extended period of time. Despite requesting several replacement 
cards, the same issue kept recurring. Mrs K is also unhappy that TSB Bank cancelled her 
card, without giving her prior notice. 
What happened
Mrs K complained to TSB in August 2019 about the problems shed been experiencing with 
her debit card. Although she was able to use the card for purchases and online, she could 
only withdraw cash from a TSB ATM machine. She made her complaint after three 
successive debit cards didnt work at ATMs operated by other banks. A further new card was 
ordered on 21 August 2019. Because Mrs K was only able to withdraw cash from a TSB 
ATM, she had to visit a TSB branch frequently to withdraw cash from her account, which she 
says caused her a great deal of inconvenience, particularly from August 2019 when she 
moved to live further away from a TSB branch. Mrs K asked TSB for a card that works, she 
requested that all her the expenses be refunded, and compensation be paid for the 
inconvenience shed suffered. 
TSB sent Mrs K their final response letter on 3 September 2019, apologising for the 
frustration this issue had caused her. They said that according to their records, shed 
requested a new debit card on a number of occasions over the past year, starting before 
Christmas 2018. At that time, they paid Mrs K £200 compensation for the inconvenience 
shed suffered and £50 to cover her expenses. 
On 13 September 2019 a new debit card was ordered for Mrs K, but she wasnt informed 
that her current card had been cancelled. So, when Mrs K tried to use the card, she was 
again unable to access her money. A new card and pin were finally delivered to Mrs K on 
7 October 2019, but the contactless feature didnt work, so she had to request yet another 
card. 
On 7 October 2019, TSB sent Mrs K a second final response addressing her further 
complaint points that her debit card still didnt work in ATM machines and she was unable to 
use her debit card because it had been blocked. TSB explained that Mrs Ks issues were 
caused by mistakes made by TSB. However, they didnt offer any additional compensation 
as the complaint had been referred to our service.
On 14 October, Mrs K said the new card had stopped working in the ATM again. She went 
into the branch and was told she should open a new account with another bank as the issue 
had been ongoing for at least the past nine months. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Ks complaint and issued her view upholding the complaint 
on 19 December 2019. She explained that from November 2018 to October 2019 Mrs K has 
had four replacement debit cards which had failed to work. She concluded that TSB should 
pay a further £250 compensation to Mrs K for the delays and inconvenience caused by the 
way they dealt with the replacement of her debit cards. 
TSB didnt agree with our investigators view. They said that they felt £500 compensation 
was excessive because although Mrs K experienced some upset and inconvenience, the 
cards were sent to her in good faith. They asked why Mrs K had only complained on 
21 August 2019, when her debit card hadnt been working since before Christmas. They also 
said that the number of withdrawals detailed on Mrs Ks statement from January 2019 to 
October 2019 didnt support Mrs Ks suggestion that she had been without easy access to 
her money for over a year at the point that she closed her TSB account. 
TSB requested an ombudsmans decision on the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its agreed by the parties that TSB has provided Mrs K with poor customer service in dealing 
with the recurring problem of her debit card not working at non-TSB ATM machines. In 
August 2019, TSB offered Mrs K compensation of £200 and £50 to cover expenses shed 
incurred as a result of their poor service. 
What remains for me to decide, is whether the £250 compensation that TSB has offered 
Mrs K is sufficient to compensate her for the upset and inconvenience shes been caused 
while the issue with her debit card has remained unresolved.
Our investigator didnt think it was sufficient, and asked TSB to pay Mrs K an additional 
£250. TSB felt that was excessive, because Mrs K had had use of the debit card, albeit a 
more limited use than other customers who were able to use their debit card, at any ATM 
machine enjoyed.
Having carefully considered all of the evidence and arguments put forward by TSB and Mrs 
K, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and award £250 additional compensation to Mrs K, 
as recommended by our investigator. I will explain why.
Mrs K told TSB, and our service, that shed been having problems using her debit card at 
ATM machines since before Christmas 2018. TSB asked why, if the problems had been 
ongoing for that long, did Mrs K only raise the issue in August 2019? Mrs K has told us that 
she raised her complaint after three different debit cards didnt work. TSBs file confirms this, 
as it lists three cards being issued in 2019 on 29 April, 7 May and 17 August. Two further 
cards were issued on 21 August and 24 September. So, although Mrs K only raised a 
complaint in August 2019, its clear that shed been experiencing problems with her card for 
a number of months before that time, as she said. 
TSB also pointed out that Mrs K was able to make online transactions with her card, and 
take money out of some TSB ATMs, and over the counter at the branch, so she still could 
access her money. While I accept that is the case, what Im considering here is the 
inconvenience Mrs K has suffered as a result of her debit card not working in the way that 
she reasonably expected it to work. It wasnt unreasonable of Mrs K to expect that she could 
use her debit card to take money out of any ATM machine.
However, by contrast, this was a known issue for TSB. In their final response letter of 
3 September 2019, they said that where a complaint is caused by a system problem, there is 
often an element of trial and error when trying to put things right. They also accepted they 
were aware of the system error which affected Mrs K, and understood that it was 
inconvenient for her to have to keep visiting a branch to withdraw money from her account. 
However, they believed the £200 compensation and £50 for expenses theyd paid to Mrs K should be sufficient to compensate her for that upset and inconvenience. They also said that 
the problem had been caused by a system error and had been reported to the appropriate 
department for review, and if Mrs K had further problems she should telephone their 
telephone banking department. 
In their further FRL dated 7 October 2019, TSB explained that on 21 August 2019 a new 
debit card had been requested but Mrs K had been incorrectly assured that her debit card 
should now be working correctly. They apologised for the misleading information shed been 
given. TSB also advised that theyd escalated the issue to their accounts management 
department who advised the issues she experienced were related to her card not being 
correctly linked to her profile, which impacted the use of ATM machines.
A request was made to correct that error, but Mrs K wasnt advised that it would result in her 
card being blocked, so she was unable to use it at all. As a result, she had to make several 
further branch visits to withdraw funds. TSB acknowledged that this was caused by an error 
of miscommunication between departments and accepted that as a result Mrs K was 
required to find alternative methods of paying her creditors. However, as shed brought her 
complaint to our service by then, no additional compensation was offered.
As at 25 November 2019 TSB said they were aware of some customers not being able to 
use their debit cards in ATMs. TSB said there was a new process for ordering new cards for 
customers affected by this issue, so Mrs K would need a new debit card and PIN. Instead, 
Mrs K decided to close her account with TSB.
 
In summary, following the initial offer of compensation, TSB made further errors in relation to 
Mrs Ks account which resulted in additional inconvenience for her, due to no fault of her 
own. TSB was also aware that this was an ongoing issue but didnt appear to be proactively 
trying to resolve the issue for Mrs K. Rather, they continued to issue replacement debit 
cards, which Mrs K reasonably expected would enable her to access her money from ATM 
machines. But instead she was continually let down by the debit card, as a result of errors 
that TSB accepts were made by their staff. 
I appreciate that TSB feels an award of an additional £250 compensation may be excessive, 
but I disagree. Mrs K has been inconvenienced by the failure of her debit card to access her 
money, in the way she reasonably expected, over a prolonged period, and in addition, has 
suffered additional inconvenience as a result of the way that TSB has tried to resolve the 
issue. Mrs K appears to have been sent five replacement cards over a period of six months, 
during which time the problems persisted with her card, requiring her to travel some distance 
to a branch to access her money. So, taking account of this inconvenience caused, and the 
frustration experienced by Mrs K together with the time shes had to spend trying to resolve 
this issue with TSB, Im of the view that an additional £250 compensation should be paid to 
Mrs K.
Putting things right
In addition to the £200 compensation and £50 reimbursement of expenses that have already 
been paid to Mrs K, I require TSB Bank plc to pay Mrs K an additional £250 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused as a result of the problems shes 
experienced in trying to use her TSB Bank debit card and replacement debit cards. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay the award 
detailed above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Carolyn Harwood
Ombudsman