DRN-4210334
The complaint
Mr R complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc dealt with a motor insurance claim he 
made.
AXA are the underwriters (insurers) of this policy. Part of this complaint concerns the actions 
of their appointed agents. AXA have accepted they are accountable for the actions of their 
agents. In my decision, any reference to AXA should be interpreted as also covering the 
relevant actions of their appointed agents.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr R and AXA. In my decision, Ill 
focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
Mr R had a motor insurance policy with AXA. In November 2022, Mr R was involved in a 
road incident following a flood. His car suffered damage and he made a claim on his policy 
with AXA in December 2022. Mr R says the delay in notifying AXA was because he was 
having difficulty getting through to AXA throughout November. AXA then approved repairs in 
February 2022.
Mr R made a complaint to AXA as he was unhappy with the time they took to deal with 
things. He said as a result of their delays, he incurred costs such as hire car charges. AXA 
partially upheld his complaint and offered a payment of £430, including a payment of £105 
towards hire car costs for 14 days and £25 for how theyd handled the complaint This was to 
recognise that things didnt happen as theyd have liked. Mr R remained unhappy and 
referred his complaint to our Service for an independent review.
Our Investigator considered the complaint and recommended that AXA pay Mr R an 
additional £270 to put things right. As AXA didnt accept the recommendation, the complaint 
was referred to me for a decision. I recently sent both parties a copy of my provisional, 
intended findings. As the deadline for further responses has now passed, Ive considered the 
complaint for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues I 
consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service.
Both parties were sent a copy of my provisional decision. Mr R didnt respond by the 
deadline given and AXA responded to accept my proposed findings. As no new evidence or 
comments have been provided by either party, I see no fair or reasonable reason to deviate 
from my intended findings  as set out in the provisional decision. 
My final decision wont be considering how AXA handled the complaint Mr R made or the 
£25 offered - as complaint handling, generally, isnt a regulated activity that our Service can 
consider.
Its not in dispute that things didnt happen here as well as either party wouldve liked. I say 
this because AXA have already made an offer in this complaint and in their final response 
letter stated: Due to an internal error, the service instruction was not raised correctly on your 
claim. This in turn caused delays with our repair authorization. My decision will focus on 
what needs to happen to put things right here.
Mr R wants around £3,300 as he says thats how much AXAs delays have cost him. AXA 
have offered £430 already. Our Investigator recommended an additional £270 compensation 
be paid. I note AXAs comments about the delays being only two months  but that 
overlooks the impact of those two months on Mr R.
I agree that, strictly in line with the policy terms, as the repair wasnt carried out by an 
approved repairer - AXA didnt need to provide a hire car whilst the repair was ongoing. 
However, I also note that AXA accept they didnt make this clear to Mr R when he notified 
them of his claim. Of importance here is the following extract from the final response letter 
dated 7 March 2023:
your policy doesnt entitle you to the use of a hire car in the event you chose to use 
a non-authorized repairer. I am sorry that this was not made aware to you when you 
first logged your claim. As we are unable to cover the charges, as stated in your 
policy, but failed to make you aware of this stipulation..
This is relevant as Mr R made his decision about whether to use an approve or non- 
approved repairer without being made fully aware of key information. Our Investigator 
previously referred to the information being in the policy terms, but the crucial interaction and 
opportunity here was when Mr R let AXA know he was making a claim. Ive also noted that 
AXA have told our Service:
Customer advised he wanted to use a non-approved repairer (NAR) but was not 
informed if he used a NAR he would not be entitled to a CC [courtesy car], nor was 
he told he couldnt get a CC as should of been told. [Bold added for emphasis by 
Ombudsman] Customer has now incurred costs. And; We have partially upheld the 
CC charges, as no way of knowing if customer still would have chosen this course of 
action had we given correct information.
The policy terms state: If your car can be repaired by one of our approved repairers, they 
will supply you with a courtesy car while your car is off the road. All repairs carried out by our 
approved repairers are guaranteed throughout the time that you own your car.
I disagree with AXA that its unknown what the customer wouldve likely done had they been 
given the full information when registering the claim. The two likely options were:
1- use a non-approved repairer, no courtesy car to be provided and no guarantee 
(through the insurer) of the quality of the repairs or;
2- use an approved repairer that AXA arranged, receive a courtesy car when the car is 
off the road and have the repairs guaranteed throughout the time that Mr R owned 
the car.
It seems reasonable to assume that option 2 would be the more attractive option. I accept 
that often a non-approved repairer chosen by the policy holder can complete repairs more quickly than waiting for an approved repairer. In an email from Mr R to AXA on 3 January 
2023:
I am paying for hire cars in the meantime. I had been planning to pay for this cost 
myself but am now expecting you to pay given how long I have been waiting for a 
reply and how terrible your communication is. Please let me know within 3-5 days if 
you do not agree to this or I will move forward on the basis you will be compensating 
this cost.
In their internal records, AXA have referred to making a payment of £105 for 1/2 CCU limit 
towards CC charges. But if this was an attempt to put things right for not giving the 
important information, I consider this unfair and not in the spirit of the policy terms (where an 
approved repairer had been used and a courtesy car was applicable). The terms state Mr R 
was entitled to a courtesy car (if using an approved repairer) whilst his car was off the road 
or until his car was classified as a total loss. By not making Mr R aware of this important 
information when he registered his claim, he was unable to make an informed decision on 
whether to go ahead with the non-approved repairer or an AXA approved repairer.
Ive kept this in mind when reaching my outcome on this complaint.
AXAs actions in causing avoidable delays of up to two months meant Mr R suffered a direct 
consequential loss. For clarity  he needed to privately hire a car for much longer than he 
would have otherwise needed to because of the avoidable delays caused by AXA. Ive also 
kept in mind that the delay in logging this claim from Mr R has contributed to the overall time 
taken from the incident to his car being repaired.
Its important that Im clear here that the terms of the policy state that a hire car is only 
relevant where an approved repairer is used and only whilst the car is actually being 
repaired. What Im addressing here is the loss suffered by Mr R because of AXAs actions. 
This is not an approved/non-approved repairer issue.
I find that the fairest way to resolve this complaint is AXA reimburse Mr R his hire costs 
incurred from 22 December 2022 until the repair costs were approved on 6 February 2023. 
This is because:
There will have always been an initial admin delay when a claim is logged and AXA 
were entitled to a reasonable window to respond. Ive considered around one week 
from notification here to be reasonable, but also accept that businesses tend to slow 
down or close over Christmas.
When Mr R chased in early January, this was another opportunity for AXA to react 
and treat Mr R fairly  but they didnt. The further delay until 6 February meant Mr R 
was avoidably paying for a hire car during this period as nothing could move forward 
until AXA approved the costs.
Any delay after the cost being approved (appears) to have been down to delays 
waiting on parts. A record from Mr R states on 17 February mechanical works were 
completed but the garage was waiting on a bumper to be delivered. I dont hold AXA 
responsible for this and it wouldnt be appropriate to tell AXA to cover further hire car 
charges as a result of NAR/supply chain delays.
I find the fairest way to resolve this complaint is for AXA to reimburse Mr R for his 
hire car costs from the date of 22 December 2022 until 6 February 2023 - subject to 
reasonable proof. Mr R provided our Service with a breakdown of his costs during the 
time period in question. These include:Mr R also told us that he incurred hire car costs of £1079.94 for the period 28 
January to 7 March. As I intend to find AXA need to cover his losses/costs up until 6 
February, pro-rata this is £27.69 per day x 11 days = £304.59. Therefore, a total of 
£1,397.69 (£1,093.10 + £304.59). Ive excluded the amounts of £5 (airport drop off) 
and £33.22 (car park exit fee) from the costs I intend to award.
8% simple interest is also to be added to this settlement figure from the date Mr R 
paid the hire car costs (subject to reasonable proof) for the period referenced (22 
December until 7 March), until the date claim settlement is made.
AXA can fairly deduct the amount offered for hire costs (£105) from any settlement. 
But it appears this was at a 50% rate that they calculated this figure.
These delays have caused Mr R avoidable trouble and upset. AXA initially offered 
£300. Alongside the steps outlined above, I find this to be a fair, reasonable and 
proportionate way to resolve this dispute and dont intend to ask AXA to increase this 
offer.
Id remind AXA of their obligations under DISP 8.1:
An insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policy holder make a claim and 
appropriate information on its progress;
Its clear from this complaint that AXA did neither and it was Mr R who was being the pro-
active party in chasing the claim on multiple occasions throughout January and February 
and it wasnt really until 2 February that AXA got a handle on this claim and identified the 
wrong email address was being used to contact the NAR.
Other points raised by Mr R
As outlined above, complaint handling in isolation generally isnt an activity that our Service 
can consider. However, some elements of the claim made ran alongside the complaint made 
by Mr R and Im satisfied the offer of £300 fairly addresses the trouble and upset caused by 
how the claim was handled.
Mr R wants AXA to extend the end date of his policy by the period of time hed been paying 
for insurance, but was unable to drive the car due to the outstanding claim. Whilst I can 
understand Mr Rs frustration, the contract of insurance responded to the claim here and the 
car was repaired. Its generally industry practice that outstanding premiums remain payable 
unless the car was declared a total loss and the claim settled  at which point the contract 
would (generally) end. I dont find that AXA did anything wrong in this regard here.
Finally, Mr R wants AXA to make a donation to a mental health charity. This wont be 
something Im going to direct them to do as Im only considering the impact on him as a 
result of AXAs actions. Mr R retains the option to make a donation himself if he so wishes.
Summary
Things didnt happen as they should have when this claim was made.
AXA didnt give Mr R all of the information they should have and then caused 
avoidable delays.
Mr R has suffered a direct, consequential loss.
AXA need to take remedial action to put things right. I direct AXA to pay Mr R 
£1,397.69 (minus £105 already paid) and add 8% simple interest (as explained 
above).
Putting things right
I direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr R £1,397.69 (minus £105 already paid) and add 8% 
simple interest from the date Mr R paid the hire car costs (subject to reasonable proof) for 
the period referenced (22 December until 7 March), until the date claim settlement is made.
AXA can fairly deduct the amount offered for hire costs (£105) from any settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to follow 
my direction as set out under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman