DRN-3122022
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to refund transactions he didnt recognise 
and then closed his account.
What happened
Mr A noticed multiple transactions on his account that he didnt recognise, amounting to 
several thousand pounds. They were to a merchant Ill refer to as J, who are a betting 
company and offer online accounts. The transactions with J took place over a two-month 
period and Mr A first notified Barclays about them a few months later.
Mr A told us that his debit card was available to other people at work when he used it to test 
the card terminal, and its possible someone could have had access to it, along with his 
passport and bank statements he kept there. Mr A believes this was the reason for the 
disputed transactions. Mr A confirmed that he hadnt given his security details to access his 
phone or for his Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) to anyone.
Once Mr A told Barclays about them, Barclays approached J and asked for information 
about the account that was connected to Mr As payment details. Barclays also made 
numerous chargebacks on Mr As behalf. 
J supplied the information they used to open the betting account which matched Mr As 
details, including his passport and copies of bank statements to establish the correct 
address. J were satisfied the account was opened correctly. Mr As statements also showed 
numerous payments into his account from J, likely to be winnings from earlier betting activity.
Barclays examined the payment activity and thought Mr A had made the transactions. But J, 
as part of the chargeback process, didnt challenge some of the transactions. So, this 
resulted in Mr A receiving several credits back into his account from J. The outcome of the 
various payments and credits meant that Mr As account was about £210 in deficit.
Barclays refused to refund Mr A, as they still believed hed made the transactions and 
produced evidence showing the activity of Mr As mobile banking and Internet Protocol (IP) 
data to support their case. The IP data gives locations of devices and/or internet services 
connected to the user. J also supplied IP data, which matched the data from Barclays. Mr A 
said that this IP data matched because it was someone from his place of work who had 
opened the betting account without his knowledge.
Barclays explained that Mr A was using his BMB at the same time the betting payments 
were made and would have seen the transactions leaving his account. They couldnt 
understand why it had taken so long to inform them about these transactions. Mr A told us 
that he didnt access the BMB page that showed his account these payments came from, but 
Barclays argued this was wrong, because all the accounts balances are shown on the home 
page when a customer logs in. 
Barclays issued Mr A with a 60-day notice to close his account, which after the notice period 
had elapsed, was closed by Barclays. Mr A complained to Barclays about the disputed 
transactions and the account closure, but Barclays didnt uphold it.
Mr A was unhappy with how Barclays dealt with his complaint and he brought it to our 
service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our investigators who thought 
that it was likely Mr A had made the transactions himself and it fitted the pattern of other 
betting transactions that Mr A hadnt disputed. She also thought it was reasonable for 
Barclays to close Mr As account.
Mr A disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for his complaint to be reviewed. 
Its come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Essentially, Mr A has said that he didnt make these transactions and firstly I need to 
determine if the transactions were authorised by him. The law concerning this is contained in 
the Payment Service Regulations 2017 and basically says that Barclays can hold Mr A liable 
for the disputed payments if the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made 
them or authorised them.  
Authorisation is made up of two parts, authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence recorded when a transaction is made. In this case, 
Barclays have been able to provide evidence that the transactions were authenticated by 
showing that card not present payments were made to J using Mr As debit card. So, Im 
satisfied the payments were properly authenticated. 
Together with the authentication evidence, for a payment to be authorised it must have been 
made with the account holders consent. What that means here is that Barclays and Mr A 
agreed to operate the account in a certain way, which is set out in the terms and conditions. 
So, where the transactions were made in the agreed manner, for instance with the correct 
card details input into an online merchant, as they were here, Barclays accept that the 
transactions were authorised by Mr A.
But, just because Barclays can show the authentication data and the transaction used the 
agreed method to make it, this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr A agreed to the 
transactions. It wouldnt be fair to hold him responsible for the transactions if his card details 
had been used without his permission, as is the case that Mr A has put forward.
So, Ive gone on to consider the circumstances and whether I think its more likely than not, 
that Mr A was responsible for the transactions. Having looked at all the evidence and Mr As 
testimony, Im persuaded that he did authorise these transactions for the following reasons:
Account opening with J.
I appreciate that Mr A sometimes used his own debit card to test a card machine 
where he works, but I dont think its likely that his passport and personal bank 
statements, which were also used to open the account, would be so easily accessible 
for someone to gather all this information including his address and contact details to 
open the account. All these items are sensitive personal documents and I dont think they would be left around for other people at a workplace, risking their loss or 
exploitation.
Mr A took several months to notify Barclays about the transactions. 
The evidence produced by Barclays shows that Mr A was often using his BMB, and 
on many occasions this was during the time the transactions were made. Barclays 
have explained the balances for customers accounts are visible when first logging in, 
so it seems unlikely that Mr A wouldnt notice the reduction in his account, particularly 
when the balance sometimes went down by over a thousand pounds in a single day. 
So, I think it was likely that Mr A knew the account was being used heavily for 
transactions with J, at the time they were made and could have raised this with 
Barclays at the time.
Mr A made payments into his account when the balance dropped. 
The statements for Mr As account show that numerous transfers where received, 
which part funded payments to J. Also, when the account entered into its overdraft, 
Mr A made payments to bring it back into credit. This indicates that Mr A was aware 
that the account balance was dropping. The level of the payments to J were of such 
quantity and amount that I think its unlikely Mr A wasnt aware of what was 
happening with his account.
IP data
Mr A argued that the IP data from J and his BMB were the same because it was 
someone else from his workplace who was responsible for setting up and using his 
details. Having looked at the extent of the payments and the spread of when they 
happened, I find it unlikely that it was someone unknown who made these payments. 
If it was another person, they were making multiple payments to J at similar times to 
Mr As usage of his BMB, at the same location. Payments were being received into 
Mr As account, which then funded the transactions to J, and this seems unlikely that 
it was anyone else apart from Mr A. 
Return of winnings
The way that J operated its business was to only pay winnings back to the account 
they were made from, in this case that was Mr As Barclays account. The statements 
show multiple payments from J that Mr A hasnt disputed. I think its unlikely that 
someone other than Mr A would profit from such an arrangement, because any 
winnings would go straight to Mr A. I dont think an unidentified person would take the 
risk to steal Mr As identity details and set up an account they couldnt then profit 
from. 
Pattern of transactions
Mr As spending shows a large number of transactions with another online betting 
company that Mr A hasnt disputed. I think this shows that transactions with J werent 
unusual or out of character for how this account was operated by Mr A.
The chargeback process requires the banks and merchants to follow strict processes and 
because J didnt defend the chargeback, Barclays didnt re-debit Mr As account. Its not 
known why they didnt continue with the process, but it seems to me that Mr A has had the 
benefit of the chargeback refunds and payments from J, which as Ive stated, I think are probably winnings. But the issue here is to decide if it was more than likely that the 
transactions were authorised by Mr A  and I think they were as Ive explained above. 
Barclays made a decision to close all of Mr As accounts and banking facilities. Businesses, 
such as Barclays, can choose who they do business with, just as customers can choose who 
they bank with. And that extends to businesses deciding that they may not wish to continue 
offering banking services to a customer. Barclays issued Mr A with a notice to close his 
account within 60 days which is in line with the accounts terms and conditions. I dont think 
Barclays acted unreasonably when they issued their notice to close the account.
So, taking everything into account, I think its more than likely that Mr A authorised the 
transactions to J and it was reasonable for Barclays to hold him liable for them. The closure 
of the account after 60 days notice was in line with the accounts terms and conditions and it 
follows that I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman