DRN-1385902
The complaint
Mr L complains about the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited handled his car 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr L was involved in a motoring incident that he says wasnt his fault. He contacted Admiral 
about making a small claim as he considered the damage to be minor, and to be repairable 
for no more than £55.
Mr L is unhappy that Admiral said his car would be a total loss, or write off. They explained 
this was down to the age of the car and they said its value would be affected by the fact it 
was also deemed a total loss on two previous occasions. Mr L says this shouldnt be the 
case because the car passed its last two MOT tests, the most recent with no advisory 
notices.
Mr L also didnt think it was worth writing off a car that he considered to be in otherwise good 
condition. So, Admiral explained to Mr L that an alternative to an ordinary claim would be to 
arrange the repairs himself and then claim through his legal cover from the other driver.
Mr L wasnt happy with how long that would take so returned to Admiral. Admiral then gave 
Mr L his options in terms of the different ways he could claim, but he wasnt happy with any 
of those.
Dissatisfied with the service hed received from Admiral, Mr L came to us.
An investigator here looked into Mr Ls concerns. He felt there may have been some 
misunderstanding around what it meant by total loss. The investigator explained that this 
was insurance terminology and didnt necessarily mean the car needed to be scrapped.
The investigator also explained that Admiral wasnt aware of Mr Ls car being a previous 
total loss  until Mr L made the claim. And that the car having passed previous MOTs 
doesnt necessarily mean it cant later become a total loss.
Mr L disagreed with the investigator. He said if something is a total loss then it should mean 
its a total loss. And he felt Admiral shouldve checked whether his car had previously been a 
total loss before insuring him. He thinks in not doing so Admiral isnt checking all the facts 
before giving a policy and that this could cause problems later down the line, or with the 
price.
Mr L said he didnt think the options of having a total loss claim through Admiral were 
suitable, so he ended up repairing it himself. Mr L says when his Admiral renewal arrived it 
was more expensive than the previous year, he doesnt think thats reasonable but, in any 
event, found cheaper cover elsewhere.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but Im not upholding his complaint. I will deal with each concern 
in turn, and hope that my explanations are helpful to him moving forward.
total loss
This is indeed an industry term that Mr L will likely find other insurers use too. And while I 
understand how it can seem peculiar for a car to be called a total loss but then repaired this 
is something that happens. Although usually for a total loss the insurer will offer a cash 
settlement for the value of the car, less the policy excess.
This is one of the options Admiral gave to Mr L, and again is common in the motor insurance 
industry. If a consumer wishes to keep their car, and if its deemed safe to repair and put 
back on the road, an insurer may allow the consumer this option. It would still offer a cash 
settlement  as above  but it would make a deduction for the salvage value of the car.
Again, this is one of the options that was offered to Mr L.
I should explain to Mr L that Admiral is entitled to settle his claim as it sees fit. The policy 
terms say:
We will decide how to settle your claim and will either:
pay to repair your car, or
pay a cash sum to replace the damaged car or item
Admiral decided to offer a cash sum, so I cant say this is unfair in the circumstances.
previous total loss and MOT test
I understand Mr Ls concerns that Admiral agreed to insure his car without knowing its full 
history. But not all insurers will ask everything about a car. Its generally up to the insurer to 
decide what it thinks is important and ask the relevant questions. Just as its up to the 
customer to take reasonable care when answering those questions.
In any event, I dont think Admiral not knowing about the previous total losses earlier is 
necessarily relevant here. They still agreed to settle Mr Ls claim in line with the terms and 
conditions, which is what theyre required to do.
I also understand why Mr L may feel previous MOT test results might affect things. But that 
would never prevent a car from being deemed a total loss. Its just a reflection of the 
condition of the car at the point the test is done. If a car is subsequently damaged, even if its 
minor damage, it could be deemed a total loss by an insurer.
Of course, these things could influence any settlement amount offered in a claim, but that 
wasnt necessary here as Mr L didnt choose to accept a cash settlement.
renewal price
Theres only so much I can say here because this wasnt part of Mr Ls complaint to Admiral. 
But I would like to explain a little about how renewal pricing can change and can affect how 
much a policy costs against a previous year.Although Mr L didnt take the option of a cash settlement for his car he was still involved in 
an incident. And insurers are allowed to take such things into account when pricing policies 
at renewal  even if their customer isnt at fault for the incident. I see Admiral clarified for
Mr L that it had treated his incident as notification only, which is what Id expect in the 
circumstances.
Of course, there are many more variables that insurers will use, and theyll all have their own 
methods. Thats why some people find it best to shop around each year, because different 
insurers will offer different prices. And just because an insurer offers a price one year, it 
doesnt mean theyll be able to offer the same price next year.
Id like to add at this point that its important for consumers to take into account what cover is 
being provided, as well as the price. Some policies may cover things others dont.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I don't uphold Mr L's complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2020.
Will Weston
Ombudsman