DRN-3723026
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited says he owes the balance of a 
yearly premium under his car insurance policy after he made a claim and cancelled it. 
What happened
A tree fell onto Mr Js parked car and he made a claim for the damage to his insurer, Skyfire. 
Skyfire accepted and settled Mr Js claim as a total loss as it wasnt economical for Skyfire to 
repair his car. Mr J decided to keep his car. So Skyfire deducted a salvage fee equivalent to 
what it would have received for the salvage of the car from the total loss settlement it paid Mr 
J. 
Mr J bought another car and for reasons unrelated to the claim, he then decided to sell the 
car Skyfire had paid a total loss settlement for. He cancelled his car insurance policy and 
Skyfire said Mr J owed a balance premium along with a cancellation fee. 
Mr J complained to Skyfire as he didnt think its request for further payment was fair. But 
Skyfire didnt uphold his complaint. It said it explained what it would charge on cancellation - 
and if a claim had been met - when Mr J bought the policy. 
Mr J remained unhappy and asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator didnt think 
Skyfire had acted unreasonably. 
Mr J didnt agree. Ive addressed his reasons in my findings below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr J says he bought a separate policy with Skyfire to insure the second car 
he bought. But this doesnt make a difference to the policy he held for the car he received a 
settlement for. As Mr J owned two cars for a period of time, he needed to pay for insurance 
for both of them. 
Skyfire explained what it would charge in the event of a claim in the policy wording provided 
when Mr J bought the policy. This isnt unusual as a customers contract with an insurer for 
insurance is for a year. Where an insurer has met its obligations under the contract - as in 
this case it settled a claim made - the customer owes the full premium under the contract. 
Mr Js policy with Skyfire reads:
If you cancel your Insurance Contract, any additional operative section of the policy 
as detailed within your schedule of insurance will also be cancelled automatically at 
the same time. If your policy is cancelled, the insurer will return any premium, 
including the deposit, paid for this policy less:
 a charge for the number of days the insurer has provided cover for;
 any fees applicable under the Intermediary Contract;
 any credit finance charges;
 any amount you may owe (administrator name inserted here) or the insurer under 
any other contract.
If any of the following apply, you may not receive any refund and you may still have 
to pay the balance of the full yearly premium. This applies in all circumstances no 
matter what payment method you use.
 You have made a claim in the policy year or a claim has been made against your 
policy.
 You have been involved in an incident which might give rise to a claim under the 
policy.
 The instalment payments are not up to date. You may be charged a proportionate 
amount to bring your payments up to date, together with any relevant fee.
So I think Skyfire let Mr J know what he would need to pay on cancellation where a claim 
was made against the policy. Mr J believes Skyfire should have set this out when it settled 
his claim. But I think Skyfire did enough to explain the claims process when Mr J made a 
claim. It had no reason to set out what Mr J might owe on cancellation until he let it know he 
wanted to cancel the policy as hed sold the car. As Ive said, I think Skyfire explained its 
charges on cancellation under the policy wording. 
Mr J says the cause of the incident which led to his claim was outside of his control and so 
not his fault. I agree. Mr J feels this should be taken into account. But the policy doesnt 
make a distinction as to the cause of damage when a claim is made. And I find that Skyfires 
terms under the policy were clear - and not unusual. I find most, if not all insurers apply the 
same terms when a claim has been made under a policy on cancellation. 
I understand Mr J will be disappointed with my decision. But I think Skyfire treated Mr J fairly 
and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. This means Im not asking 
Skyfire to waive the balance it says Mr J owes when he cancelled his policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman