DRN-4372300
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt do enough to protect her from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company, or to help her recover the money 
once shed reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
Around 14 years ago, Mrs H invested around £500 in cryptocurrency. Unfortunately, she 
didn't hear anything back from the investment and has never invested in cryptocurrency 
since. 
In January 2022 she was contacted by someone Ill refer to as the scammer. The scammer 
said he was from an investment company Ill refer to as B, they had located money in an 
account in her name and the initial investment had grown. Mrs H researched B and was 
reassured by the genuine-looking website and the reviews she saw on TrustPilot. 
The scammer explained that they had located her cryptocurrency wallet but because it had 
been inactive for a number of years, she would need to pay B to reopen her account. He 
advised her to open an account with B and to download AnyDesk remote access software to 
her device. He also told her to open an account with an EMI Ill refer to as W and required 
her to send copies of her ID to prove she was the owner of the initial investment.
To make the payments, the broker asked Mrs H to first purchase cryptocurrency through a 
cryptocurrency exchange company and then load it onto an online wallet. On 19 August 
2022, she paid £548, £560, and £6,420 to the account shed opened with W.
When Mrs H told the scammer she didnt have any more money to send, he said her funds 
wouldnt be released and began ignoring her calls and messages. Mrs H realised shed been 
scammed when she eventually lost touch with the scammer. She complained to Nationwide, 
but it refused to refund and of the money shed lost apart from £10 that it had been able to 
recover from the recipient account. It suggested she should contact W because the funds 
were lost from that account. 
Mrs H wasnt satisfied and so she complained to this service. She said Nationwide didnt 
intervene when she made the payments, and she didnt receive any warnings about the risks 
of investment scams. She said there were clear red flags such as multiple payments on the 
same day to a new payee linked to cryptocurrency, causing a rapid depletion of funds. 
Her representative said the payments represented a sudden increase in spending and the 
payments were all made on the same day. They argued that if Nationwide had contacted 
Mrs H when she made the first payment, it could have prevented her loss. They said 
Nationwide should have asked Mrs H why she was making the payment, who she was 
trading with, how she found out about the company, whether shed done any research, 
whether shed checked the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website, whether shed been 
promised unrealistic returns and whether shed received any withdrawals. And had it done 
so, as Mrs H wasnt prompted to give false answers, she would have told it she was making 
payments for the release of funds from an investment she made over 14 years ago and it 
would have realised she was falling victim to advance fee scam. 
Our investigator felt the complaint should be upheld. He explained that Mrs Hs normal 
account activity generally consisted of lower value payments, so he thought the third 
payment on 19 August 2022 should have been flagged. He was satisfied that if Nationwide 
had contacted Mrs H and asked her why she was making the payments it would have 
learned shed been asked to send funds to recover lost cryptocurrency and that shed been 
asked to download AnyDesk, and it would have been obvious that shed been scammed. 
Nationwide should then have provided an appropriate warning which he thought Mrs H 
would have acted on. 
He thought Nationwide should refund the money shed lost from the third payment onwards 
and he didnt think the settlement should be reduced for contributory negligence because the 
scammer had said they were from a reputable trading platform and Mrs H had completed 
due diligence before sending these funds.
Nationwide has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman. It has said me- 
to-me payments arent covered by the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code and 
has suggested the onus was on W to intervene because the funds were transferred to the 
scammer from that account.
It has said the outcome is at odds with our approach to other me-to-me scam cases, where 
we have said that a payment between customers accounts didnt cause or give rise to a loss 
prior to the onward payment to the scammer. It has also said that our investigator has 
applied the same approach as me to me scam cases involving payments to cryptocurrency 
merchants, which arent regulated by the FCA. It has argued that permitting payments to a 
cryptocurrency exchange has visibility that it is a cryptocurrency transaction, whereas it had 
no knowledge of the onward payments from W.
It has also argued there was a break in the chain of causation as W could still have 
prevented Mrs Hs loss and should be regarded as the operative cause of the loss, which is 
an established principle of causation. And it has suggested that if the case was decided in 
court, it would been entitled to seek a full contribution from W.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mrs H says shes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. Nationwide has said the CRM code didnt apply in 
this case because Mrs H paid an account in her own name, and Im satisfied thats fair.
Im also satisfied Mrs H authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although she didnt 
intend the money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and 
conditions of her bank account, Mrs H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.Theres no dispute that this was a scam, but although Mrs H didnt intend her money to go to 
scammers, she did authorise the disputed payments. Nationwide is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer 
has been the victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to 
reimburse them even though they authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive thought about whether Nationwide could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Nationwide ought to fairly and reasonably be alert to fraud and scams 
and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to 
have intervened to warn Mrs H when she tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual 
or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect Nationwide to intervene with a view to 
protecting Mrs H from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Nationwides systems. Ive considered the nature 
of the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mrs 
H normally ran her account and I think they were. The first two payments were low value and 
so I dont think Nationwide needed to intervene. But by the time she made the third payment, 
even though she was paying an account in her own name, this was the third payment shed 
made that day to a new payee. In the months prior to the scam the account was mainly used 
for low-value payments and so I agree £6,420 was out of character and represented an 
increase to the normal spending on the account. So, I think Nationwide missed an 
opportunity to intervene.
Nationwide should have contacted Mrs H and asked her some questions about the purpose 
of the payments and as theres no evidence shed been told to lie, I think shed have told it 
that she planned to make payments in cryptocurrency to a recovery agent. And, with further 
probing questions I think shed also have disclosed that she had been cold called and that 
shed also been told to download AnyDesk to her device.
This would have been enough information for Nationwide to have identified that she was 
being scammed and so it should have provided her with a tailored scam warning and 
advised her that there were red flags present. It should also have discussed with her the 
possibility that B was a clone of the genuine company and advised her to contact the details 
on the FCA website to check whether she was dealing with the genuine company. 
Had it done this Im satisfied the scam would have come to light and Mrs H wouldnt have 
made any further payments. Because of this Im satisfied that Nationwide failed to intervene 
in circumstances which could have prevented her loss.
In reaching this conclusion Ive considered the points Nationwide raised in response to our 
investigators view. Firstly, it has said that there was a break in the chain of causation, so the 
onus was on W to intervene because the funds were lost from there to the scammers 
account, while the transfers from Nationwide to W didnt give rise to Mrs Hs loss. I accept 
the money wasnt lost directly from Mrs Hs Nationwide account, but Im satisfied that if it had 
identified that the spending was unusual for the account, it could have prevented her loss. 
So, even though the payment journey meant there was a later opportunity for another 
business to have done the same thing, this doesnt mean Nationwide didnt need to protect 
Mrs H when she made the payments.
Nationwide has also said theres a distinction between me-to-me scam cases involving 
payments to a regulated business and those involving payments to cryptocurrency exchange 
companies, namely that, in the former, theres no visibility that the transaction involves 
cryptocurrency and that there is a risk of an onwards payment. I accept the fact Mrs H was paying her own account meant the nature of the payment alone wasnt enough to identify 
she might be at risk, but Nationwide is required to stop payments which are suspicious or 
unusual to protect customers who might be at risk of fraud, and the fact Mrs H wasnt paying 
a cryptocurrency merchant doesnt excuse it for having failed to do that.
Finally, Nationwide has suggested it would be entitled to seek a full contribution from W if 
this matter had been decided in a court. But this decision is based on what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint, which may be different to what a court 
would decide.
Contributory negligence
I accept theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions and conduct suitable due diligence but, in the circumstances, I dont think Mrs H 
was to blame for the fact she didnt foresee the risk. This is because she was dealing with a 
clone of a genuine company and so even though she did reasonable checks, it wouldnt 
have revealed the scam.
Mrs H had invested in cryptocurrency previously, so it wasnt unreasonable that she believed 
what she was told by the scammers. She also thought the request for a payment of tax was 
reasonable. So, I dont think she can fairly be held responsible for her own loss.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should: 
Refund £6420.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Nationwide Building Society deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mrs H with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2024.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman