DRN-2667393
The complaint
Mrs M complains, via her representative, about British Gas Services Limited (British Gas), 
in relation to the value offered by her Homecare agreement over a number of years. She 
feels that she was mis-sold the policy and wants British Gas to refund the element of her 
premiums which reflected repair cover. 
 
What happened
Mrs M has a boiler which was made more than 25 years ago. 
From the late 2010s onwards, Mrs M had a British Gas HomeCare policy in place and 
renewed this policy each year. Her policy included an annual service for gas hob and boiler 
appliances and cover for emergency call out and repair of those appliances.
In 2019, Mrs M received her renewal information and noted that the price of the policy was 
increasing to £370.66. Mrs Ms representative contacted British Gas and agreed to 
downgrade her policy so that it only included a gas hob and boiler service. This reduced her 
premium price to around £140 per year.  
Mrs M complained to British Gas. She felt that the call out and repair cover for her boiler, 
which had made up more than half of her premium for a long period, had not been 
appropriate for her and had been mis-sold to her, given the age of her boiler and the 
seeming non-availability of parts for repairs. 
British Gas sent Mrs M its final response letter in April 2020. It agreed that British Gas had 
not met the level of service that Mrs M had expected, and it offered her £35.82 
compensation, apparently reflecting 3 months of her ongoing service cost. 
Mrs M was not happy with that response and contacted us. Mrs M felt that the compensation 
level was insufficient if she had been paying around £160 per year for cover for the boiler, 
when it would not have been possible to carry out repairs requiring replacement parts.  
 
Our investigator said we can only consider the renewals after 2013 up until 2019, due to time 
limits. In respect of those years, she did not agree that Mrs M had received no benefit from 
the emergency cover. This was because a successful repair had been carried out in 2017 
and at no time had parts not been available for a repair. She therefore didnt think that British 
Gas had done anything wrong and she did not recommend that British Gas do anything 
further. 
Mrs M did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M and her representative understand that the boiler is no longer made and they appear 
to believe that parts for replacement have not been available for some time. On that basis, I 
can see why they feel that the emergency cover part of the policy was not required and 
shouldnt have been sold to Mrs M each year if repairs would not have been possible. 
I do not, however, agree with their view. 
When considering complaints about mis-sale of products we consider four stages: 
i) what actually happened?
ii) what should have happened?
iii) has the consumer lost out as a result?
iv) If so, what needs to happen to put things right?
i) What actually happened?
Mrs M renewed her policy automatically each year and continued to pay by direct debit. She 
was sent renewal information which detailed the cover provided and explained that this 
included repair of Mrs Ms boiler, radiators, hot water cylinder, and the water pipes that 
connect them and controls such as thermostat and programmer. The renewal advised that 
Mrs M could get in touch to make changes or cancel the agreement and that the agreement 
would automatically renew on a particular date unless she told them she did not want it to 
The evidence provided by British Gas shows that annual services have been carried out to 
Mrs Ms gas appliances consistently. Repairs were also carried out to the boiler in 2017, with 
no issue arising as to availability of parts, or as to the possibility of repair. 
British Gas notified Mrs M in 2018 that parts for the particular model of boiler she had were 
becoming less easy to source and that some parts may not be available in the future. This 
warning made clear that the most important parts were still being made but added that if a 
repair was required and British Gas was unable to fix the boiler then a refund would be 
made, backdated to the last repair or the last renewal. 
ii) What should have happened?
We expect businesses to make clear what a consumer is buying during a renewal of a 
policy. This would include making it clear what is covered and what is not covered. 
We would expect that the renewal information gave Mrs M sufficient information to decide 
whether the continued policy had a benefit for her. This would include making clear if British 
Gas would no longer support her boiler. 
In this case I have not seen evidence that British Gas would not be able to support or repair 
Mrs Ms boiler. It appears that the most important parts for the boiler continued to be 
available and it was clearly possible for repairs to be carried out in 2017, when the boiler 
was successfully repaired. Consequently, I do not think that British Gas did anything wrong 
in the way it continued to offer and renew Mrs Ms policy.
iii) Has the consumer lost out?
I agree with the investigators view that Mrs M has benefitted from cover for repairs 
throughout the period of her policy. This is because she received a successful repair of the 
boiler in 2017, and she continued to have cover for the other parts of the system included 
(e.g. radiators, water pipes and controls). In addition, when British Gas sent the parts 
warning, this also detailed that British Gas would attempt to repair the boiler, and if unable to 
do so they would offer a refund. I think that Mrs M has benefitted from cover throughout the period, and where there was a risk that parts may not be available, she benefitted from the 
assurance that she would be refunded for any policy which was not useable. 
Given the answers to the first questions, I do not need to address the next question. 
I do not think British Gas has done anything wrong in continuing to offer Mrs M cover up to 
and including the 2019 renewal. I understand that the final response from British Gas 
confused matters and was not clear, firstly about what British Gas were apologising for, and 
secondly how their compensation amount had been arrived at. I do not think that this 
response was helpful, but I do not consider that it constituted a failing in service. 
As a result, I agree with the investigators view and do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
I appreciate that Mrs M will be disappointed by this decision, but I hope it is clear how and 
why I have reached it.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold Mrs Ms complaint and do not ask British Gas 
Services Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman