DRN-4493973
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy Financial & Legal Insurance Company Ltd turned down a claim he made on
his after the event legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R wanted to make a claim against a third party following a data breach. He approached
solicitors who obtained counsels opinion which put his prospects of success at 60%. He
anticipated Mr R would recover damages in the £1,500 - £2,000 bracket. Through his
solicitors Mr R took out an after the event legal expenses insurance policy with Financial &
Legal (in October 2020) to cover costs in the event he wasnt successful in his claim.
Later that month, his solicitors advised Financial & Legal the defendant had made an offer to
settle the claim which it intended to reject and issue court proceedings. Financial & Legal
confirmed its authorisation and proceedings were issued the following month. In July 2021
summary judgement was issued on the claim. The judge said there wasnt a credible case of
establishing distress or damage over a de minimis threshold. He awarded costs against
Mr R on an indemnity basis.
The solicitors sought to recover those costs under the policy with Financial and Legal. It took
some months for it to provide a detailed response to the claim. But it subsequently turned
this down. It said it didnt understand why this case had been considered to have reasonable
prospects of success (given judgements in other cases and the judges comment on this
one). It didnt think proceedings should have been pursued in the High Court.
It referenced policy terms that required a claim to be conducted with due diligence and as
economically as possible. And that costs wouldnt be covered if proceedings had been
conducted in such a way as to prejudice its position. It also said the policy didnt cover costs
if the proceedings were struck out because of procedural error or default which it thought
applied here.
Our investigator didnt agree. He noted the comments the judge had made about the case
but the policy had been obtained based on a barristers opinion which met the policy terms
as they related to prospects of success. And Financial & Legal had been aware of that from
the outset. So he didnt think the claim had been conducted in a way to prejudice its position.
He didnt agree the claim had been struck out because of procedural error or default; it was
struck out because the judge wasnt persuaded in relation to its merits. If Financial & Legal
thought costs hadnt been reasonably incurred it could appoint an expert to consider this.
Financial & Legal didnt agree. It didnt think it was relevant there was a supportive counsels
opinion on the claims prospects of success as the judge concluded the claim was
misconceived and awarded costs on an indemnity basis. It drew attention to the comments
the judge had made about the claimant not being able to demonstrate hed suffered distress
and thought it had been struck out for procedural error or default.
And the claim had been issued in the High Court which was an abuse of process and meant
the claim hadnt been dealt with diligently and as economically as possible. It thought it
should have been pursued in the small claims court.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint last month. In summary I said:
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Financial & Legal has a responsibility to
handle claims promptly and fairly. It shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably
Ive looked first at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. This does provide cover for the
payment of Opponents Costs and Own Costs (where applicable) and Disbursements if the
Proceedings are not Successful up to the Limit of Indemnity stated in the Schedule.
However, the policy doesnt provide cover if the Proceedings have, in the Coverholders
opinion, been conducted in such a manner to have prejudiced the Insurers position. And it
doesnt cover costs if the Proceedings are struck out due to procedural error or default. In
addition the policy says the Appointed Representative and/or the Insured shall conduct the
Proceedings with all due diligence and as economically as possible. The policy defines
Proceedings as the legal proceedings whether issued or not in relation to the pursuit
or Defence by the Insured of a legal claim for compensation
Under Observance of Terms the policy says any term or condition of this Policy insofar as
it relates to anything to be done or complied with by either the Insured or the Appointed
Representative shall be conditions precedent to the Insurers liability to make any payment
under this Policy.
Ive considered whether Financial & Legal has correctly and fairly relied on the exclusions
and conditions its referenced when declining cover for the claim. First, I dont agree the
claim was struck out for procedural error or default. Ive read the judgement carefully. I
appreciate the judge was critical of the claimed impact on Mr R and said the time hed
claimed for in dealing with the matter was plainly exaggerated.
But that doesnt represent a procedural error or default in my view. A procedural error would
include a breach of a rule or practice direction (or something similar to that). That might
include a failure to pay the correct fee or lodge proceedings in time. And a default would
encompass the failure to do something required by law.
I dont see that either of those things have happened in this case. The judge reached a
summary judgement that the case didnt have a realistic prospect of success. He doesnt
identify any procedural error or default which led him to do so; his judgement follows from his
conclusion that the impact on Mr R of the data breach isnt as he described and doesnt
meet the de minimis threshold for the case to progress.
Nor do I think Financial & Legal has shown the proceedings were conducted in a manner
thats prejudiced its position. The argument it seems to be making is that that, based on the
comments from the judge, the claim should never have been brought in the first place. 
However, while I appreciate the judge clearly wasnt persuaded the case met the de
minimis threshold to be pursued, prior to proceedings being issued Mr R had obtained
counsels opinion on its prospects of success.
Financial & Legal say that isnt relevant but I dont agree. Its the basis on which the claim
was accepted and was provided to Financial & Legal when authorisation to proceed was
sought and agreed. And that opinion specifically considers relevant cases and concludes
the prospects of successfully establishing liability against the Defendant are in excess of
60%. Counsel went on to consider quantum in detail and said I would anticipate the
Claimants would each recover damages within a bracket from £1,500 to £2,000.
I recognise the judge clearly took a very different view but I dont see that shows the policyterm as it relates to the conduct of proceedings has been breached. The decision on how to
conduct the proceedings could only be taken based on the information available at the time.
And in this case, I think the best available evidence was counsels opinion which, in my view,
is properly written and reasoned and from someone with specific experience of data breach
and privacy issues. As Ive said, counsel concluded the claim did have the required
prospects of success, and Mr R was likely to recover damages. I dont see how taking steps
in line with that advice gives Financial & Legal grounds to turn down the claim particularly as
it provided authorisation for proceedings to be issued.
Where I do have a concern is in relation to whether the case was pursued as economically
as possible. I can see proceedings were issued by Mr R in the High Court. Financial & Legal
raised concerns in correspondence with Mr Rs representatives as to why that was. In its
final response to the complaint it said we furthermore fail to understand why three claims
worth only £2,000 maximum in your estimation were issued in the High Court. And you
should have known that these cases could not succeed at trial and certainly could not
succeed in the High Court.
I think Financial and Legal had reasonable grounds for querying why the claims had been
brought in the High Court given the breach by the third party wasnt in dispute and the
claim was of relatively low value. Im also aware there has been a relatively recent data
breach case (Stadler v Currys Group Ltd [2022] EWHC 160 (QB)) in which the judge said
it would be disproportionate to allow such a low value claim to be litigated in the way that it
is, with all the costs that arise out of High Court litigation. He went on to say by including
multiple causes of action in respect of this low value claim, the claimant has increased the
complexity of the proceedings unnecessarily.
In a separate case brought in the High Court (Cleary v Marston (Holdings) Ltd [2021] EWHC
3809 (QB)) the judge said for a classic data breach case (which I think would encompass the
issues raised in Mr Rs claim) it is important that claimants (and those advising them) do not
pursue claims that add little but yet have the potential to make the case more complicated
and lead to increased costs ultimately to resolve what in many cases will be a
straightforward claim. He concluded that case should be allocated to the small claims track
of the County Court.
I appreciate those judgements were reached after that on Mr Rs case (though in the latter
case only by a few months). But I note commentary on them indicates they reflect the
direction of travel of judicial thinking which had been emerging prior to that. I accept there
could nevertheless be good reasons as to why Mr Rs case needed to be heard in the High
Court. But having reviewed the responses provided by Mr Rs representatives to Financial &
Legal and to our service I cant see this issue has been addressed by them to date.
Given that I dont think it was unreasonable of Financial & Legal to conclude that, based on
the available evidence, the case hadnt been pursued as economically as possible. Its view
is the claim could have been pursued in the small claims court which reflects the outcome of
the Cleary case quoted above. As there wouldnt have been the same costs issues with a
case pursued in that way, I think its reasonable to say Financial & Legals position has been
adversely affected because that wasnt done.
I also note that when Mr Rs representatives sought authorisation for the case to proceed
they didnt say that proceedings would be issued in the High Court. And while I appreciate
that one of the Part 36 offers they attached did make reference to these being High Court
proceedings I cant see that Financial and Legal provided explicit consent for the
proceedings to be pursued in this way.
Of course, if Mr Rs representatives do have further evidence as to why the claim was
pursued in the High Court (and so why it was necessary to incur the costs associated withthat), Id expect Financial & Legal to consider those arguments. But that isnt something that
would impact my decision on this complaint because Im considering here whether Financial
& Legal fairly turned down the claim based on the information that was reasonably
available to it. And for the reasons Ive explained I think it did. So there isnt anything I think it
needs to do to put things right in relation to this complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Financial & Legal didnt respond. Mr Rs representatives did provide comments. In summary:
They explained why the claim had been issued in the High Court given the elements it 
included. They accepted subsequent case law suggested that wasnt appropriate but 
didnt accept this was apparent at the time. 
They argued it wouldnt have been economic for Financial & Legal to agree to the case 
being pursued in the small claims court as it wouldnt have been able to recover its 
premium and any damages would be unlikely to have covered this.
They said Financial & Legal were aware from the papers submitted to it the case was 
being pursued in the High Court and confirmed they could proceed. They thought it was 
now estopped from going behind that agreement.
So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs representatives have argued Financial & Legal is estopped from declining the claim 
because it was aware proceedings were to be lodged in the High Court and agreed they 
could go ahead. And while I appreciate there are different types of estoppel in simple terms 
its a legal principle where someone is estopped from arguing something or asserting a right 
that contradicts what theyve agreed to previously.
However, while I must have regard to the law, I dont have to apply it strictly in the same way 
a court would. My role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of circumstances of the 
case. I identified in my provisional decision that one of the Part 36 offers Mr Rs 
representatives attached when seeking authorisation for the case to proceed said these 
were High Court proceedings. But I also took into account that they didnt refer to this in their 
covering email and Financial & Legal didnt give explicit consent for proceedings to be 
issued in that way. So I dont think its fair to say it had agreed to this. 
Mr Rs representatives have also provided the rationale for why they did lodge proceedings 
in the High Court. In my provisional decision I explained that if they were able to evidence 
why theyd done so (and so why it was necessary to incur the costs associated with that) Id 
expect Financial & Legal to consider those arguments. 
But I also made clear that wasnt something which would impact my decision on this 
complaint because what I was considering was whether Financial& Legal fairly turned down 
the claim based on the information that was reasonably available to it. It hasnt yet had the 
opportunity to consider the arguments Mr Rs representatives have now made. So theyll 
need to put those points to Financial & Legal in the first instance. Id expect Financial & Legal to then review that information to see if it makes a difference to 
its current position on the claim (taking into account the comments I made in my provisional 
decision as to why I didnt think the other grounds it had used for declining the claim could 
fairly be applied). If Mr R is unhappy with any new decision Financial & Legal then reaches 
thats something we could potentially consider as part of a fresh complaint. 
My final decision
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
James Park
Ombudsman