DRN-3133549
The complaint
The estate of Mr W is unhappy that Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) has refused to accept and 
cover a claim made for subsidence on a buy to let buildings insurance policy.
What happened
Sadly Mr W has passed away since the complaint has been with this service. Im sorry to 
hear this and pass on my condolences to his family. To avoid confusion as he provided all 
information on this complaint Ill refer to Mr W throughout unless its relevant to refer to 
Mr Ws representative Mrs A. I hope this doesnt cause any additional upset as this is not my 
intention. 
Mr W contacted this service to complain about his claim made for subsidence. The claim 
was made in March 2019 when Lloyds provided the underwriting for the insurance. Mr W 
notified Lloyds during the investigations into the claim that hed instructed a surveyor to 
inspect the risk property in 2016 as cracks had been noted by the tenants. A brief report was 
provided which recommended monitoring the cracks but Mr W said he didnt believe this 
indicated there was subsidence. And as there was tenants in situ it felt best to monitor over 
doing anything else. The cracks appear to have closed for a period before becoming more 
visible again resulting in the claim in 2019.
Lloyds wasnt the underwriter when the cracks to the property were first noted  this was 
provided by company A whod provided the insurance for 2015 and 2016. A separate 
complaint is with our service against company A to consider whether its fair that it accepts 
the claim now.
On learning that Mr Ws property had known cracks before Lloyds offered the insurance it 
said it would have excluded subsidence cover from the cover provided. It said as it was now 
aware of this, it was entitled to remove this cover retrospectively. Lloyds said it had asked 
whether there was any previous movement or subsidence when the policy was taken out 
and been told no. It felt this was a misrepresentation.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said they didnt think Lloyds had acted unfairly 
by refusing to cover the claim and removing the subsidence cover. They agreed that Mr W 
was asked ahead of the insurance being taken out whether there was any prior movement or 
subsidence and the answer given was a misrepresentation. Because of this he didnt think 
Lloyds had acted unfairly when it declined to cover the claim made for subsidence.
Mrs A said she didnt agree with the outcome but had nothing further to add. Lloyds had no 
further comments either. Because of this the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator on this complaint for much the same 
reasons and have decided not to uphold this complaint. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs A but Ill explain how Ive reached this decision.
Ive considered whether Lloyds has acted fairly when it refused to provide the cover to 
Mr Ws property. The insurance Mr W had in place with Lloyds is a buy to let buildings 
insurance and so a commercial insurance. The Insurance Act 2015 (the act) sets out the 
requirements on a commercial customer and the remedies available to an insurer if these 
arent complied with. The relevant obligation here was the duty on Mr W to make a fair 
presentation of the risk.
Lloyds has said it doesnt believe Mr W made a fair presentation of the risk as the answer 
provided in the fact find ahead of the policy being taken out was incorrect. The question 
referred to is:
10):a Has the property shown signs of damage caused by subsidence, landslip or heave in 
the last 25 years? 
Lloyds asked this question when it first provided the underwriting for the property in 2017 
and again in 2018. At both points Mr W answered No to the question. I think in answering 
No Mr W did make a misrepresentation about the property. I say this because of the 
evidence of movement first noticed in 2016 and his knowledge of this.
I understand Mr W was of the belief the movement noticed in 2016 wasnt subsidence but I 
think it was clear there was movement in the property earlier and hed sought advice on this 
and what to do about it. The advice provided following the inspection in 2016 said the 
following:
Further to our meeting on the 27th November, I confirm that the fractures noted should be 
monitored in order to establish if they are progressive or established.
And later:
You may wish to make contact with your buildings insures to notify them of the fractures 
affecting the property in the event that a claim may be made in the future 
So although the surveyor didnt say there was subsidence at the property, its clear there 
was movement and the property required monitoring. And it was recommended that the 
insurers be notified of the movement. But as Mr W was of the belief there was no 
subsidence, I think it would be reasonable to say he was careless in not disclosing the 
movement over a reckless or deliberate act to conceal this.
The act explains the remedies available to an insurer when theres been a breach of the duty 
of care to make a fair representation. When there has been a qualifying careless breach and 
the policy would have been provided on different terms, the insurer can continue to provide 
the cover but on these different terms. In this case Lloyds has explained that it would have 
removed the subsidence cover from the policy had it been made aware of the movement in 
2016. The only way it may have provided this cover is if an extensive survey was completed 
and it was satisfied the movement was no longer progressive. So it would have acted 
differently had it been provided with a different answer to the question asked and it is very 
unlikely that it would have agreed to cover subsidence for the property from the point it 
provided the cover.Based on this, I think Lloyds has acted fairly when it declined to cover Mr Ws claim for 
subsidence as the cover wouldnt have been in place. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold the late Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman