DRN-4006149
The complaint
Mr W, through his representative Quanta Law, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has 
treated him unfairly by overcharging him on his mortgage.
What happened
In around April 2006 Mr W took a mortgage with Barclays, trading as Woolwich. The 
mortgage was taken out on a capital and interest repayment basis over 25 years. Mr W 
agreed the mortgage on a variable interest rate. This was the Barclays Standard Variable 
Rate (SVR) with a discount of 1.50% until 31 March 2008. At which point the discount was 
removed and the mortgage reverted to Barclays SVR. This was the rate that applied to the 
account until Mr W redeemed his mortgage in July 2016. 
Since Mr W took out the mortgage, the SVR has varied over the years as follows:
Effective Date Base Rate SVR Difference 
01/04/2006 6.59% 2.09%
03/08/2006 4.75%
01/09/2006 6.84% 2.09%
09/11/2006 5.00%
01/12/2006 7.14% 2.14%
11/01/2007 5.25%
01/02/2007 7.39% 2.14%
10/05/2007 5.50%
01/06/2007 7.64% 2.14%
05/07/2007 5.75%
01/08/2007 7.89% 2.14%
06/12/2007 5.50%
01/01/2008 7.64% 2.14%
07/02/2008 5.25%
01/03/2008 7.39% 2.14%
31/03/2008 Discount variable 
rate ends
10/04/2008 5.00%
01/05/2008 7.14% 2.14%
08/10/2008 4.50%
01/11/2008 6.64% 2.14%
06/11/2008 3.00% 3.64%
04/12/2008 2.00%
01/01/2009 5.49% 3.49%
08/01/2009 1.50% 3.99%
05/02/2009 1.00%
01/03/2009 4.99% 3.99%
05/03/2009 0.50% 4.49%
On 10 February 2021, Mr Ws representative sent a letter of complaint to Barclays on his 
behalf. The letter set out that Mr W sought to claim damages in relation to being 
overcharged interest on his outstanding mortgage balance due to the unlawful interest 
rates and any variations in Barclays interest rates. 
The letter set out that Mr W considers that the mortgage offer issued in March 2006 
contained unfair terms pursuant to the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 
1999 (UTCCR). More specifically Mr Ws representative argues that: 
Section four of the offer letter is unfair as the term within did not explain what was 
meant by the Standard Variable Rate, and Mr W was misled into believing that this 
rate would vary in accordance with the Bank of England base rate, rather than at 
Barclays discretion.
 
Mr W does not accept that the supplementary mortgage conditions, which defined 
the Standard Variable Rate were incorporated into the contract. 
It is unfair to expect consumers, such as Mr W, to pore over the small print to 
understand the meaning of a key term like the interest rate. 
The meaning of the Standard Variable Rate and particularly the fact that Barclays 
could vary it at its discretion, should have been set out in the mortgage offer. The 
failure to do so, renders the term within section four of the mortgage offer unfair for 
the purposes of UTCCR such that Barclays is unable to rely on it. 
A term included within a contract allowing a lender to vary interest rates entirely at its 
own discretion without providing grounds to do so is unfair. 
The term lacks transparency and Mr W does not have an effective right to termination 
due to the presence of an Early Repayment Charge (ERC), as well as other costs 
associated with discharging their mortgage and switching to another lender.
Section 15 of The Supply of Goods and Services Act should be deemed to apply in 
this case. This allows for the consideration of a reasonable rate being applied to 
Mr Ws mortgage balance rather than Barclays SVR. 
Barclays actions constitute a breach of Principle 6 of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) Handbook whereby a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. And a breach of MCOB 11.5(1)(b) which requires a 
firm to treat customers fairly by assessing, before deciding to vary a regulated 
mortgage contract or home purchase plan; whether the consumer will be able to 
repay the sums borrowed and interest. 
Mr W seeks to claim the difference between the amount of interest he paid on his 
mortgage and the amount he would have paid had it been subject to what he deems 
to be a reasonable rate.
Barclays responded to the complaint on 12 October 2021. It did not agree that the mortgage 
had been mis-sold, but in any event, it did not consent to our service considering the 
complaint, as it thought the complaint had been made too late. Mr Ws representative 
subsequently referred this complaint to our service on 18 October 2021. Our investigator issued her opinion on the limitations to our jurisdiction, what this meant for 
Mr W and then went on to set out her findings on the merits of the complaint. In summary, in 
relation to our jurisdiction she said: 
The complaint was raised on 10 February 2021, so she concluded that the complaint 
about all of the interest charging events that took place within six years prior to this, 
had been raised in time. Which would be from 10 February 2015 onward. So, she 
was satisfied that she could consider whether the sums charged from 
10 February 2015 onward were fair and reasonable.
That under DISP 2.8.2(R) where the consumer seeks to bring a complaint more than 
six years after the event complained of, such a complaint must be brought within 
three years from the date the consumer became aware, or ought reasonably to have 
become aware, that they had cause for complaint. The investigator explained why 
she thought Mr W ought reasonably to have been aware of his cause for complaint 
more than three years before making his complaint. So, she didnt think this part of 
the rule gave him any more time to complain.
When considering the fairness of the interest rate charged from 10 February 2015 
onward, she would need to take account of previous variations of the interest rate in 
order to determine whether the rate charged during the period she can look at is fair. 
She would also need to consider whether the variation clause is itself an unfair term 
as a matter of law. She concluded both of these things were part of all the 
circumstances of the case that she is required to consider under the DISP rules and 
are relevant to whether the interest charged from 10 February 2015 onward is fair 
and reasonable. 
In the event she recommends any redress, she would only be able to award for the 
period that is in scope of this complaint  10 February 2015 onward.
The investigators findings went on to conclude:
Mr Ws mortgage contract did not commit to track the base rate, he was made 
sufficiently aware of the relevant terms and Barclays has sought to charge interest in 
accordance with those terms.
The reasons listed in the terms and conditions that allow Barclays to vary the interest 
rate could be perceived as broad and open to interpretation. The investigator 
considered some of the terms allowing Barclays to vary the SVR to be unfair, in 
terms of a lack of transparency of when a particular term would be engaged and 
when Barclays can make changes to the SVR and by how much.
In determining whether, at the time the contract was taken out, there were likely to be 
significant barriers for Mr W dissolving the contract, the investigator noted that 
Barclays was only able to rely on the variation terms when there was no ERC. So, 
Mr W would not have had to pay a charge to end his contract with Barclays should he 
have chosen to switch to another lender. The investigator added that she didnt think 
switching costs were a significant barrier to exit and instead were costs a borrower 
could incur if they ever sought to switch lender.
The investigator set out the need to consider what, if any, unfairness Mr W 
experienced because of mortgage payments based on changes to the interest rate. 
And the need to consider whether Barclays had exercised the terms fairly. She was 
not persuaded Barclays varied the rate unfairly.The difference between the SVR and the base rate largely increased between 2007 
and 2009. The investigator set out that this was a time of significant change in the 
wider market as a result of the financial crisis. This impacted on the funding costs of 
businesses and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates. 
Barclays provided information to show that its cost of funds did not reduce in line with 
the base rate during this period.
For the remainder of the period (until the point this complaint was made), the only 
changes Barclays made to the SVR were made soon after changes were made to 
the base rate, and by the same amount.
Overall, the investigator didnt think there was anything to suggest that Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably, or that Mr W has overpaid interest. 
Mr Ws representative responded to say it did not agree with the outcome and asked that the 
complaint be referred to an ombudsman. In summary it said:
It does not accept the conclusion that Barclays was impacted by an increased cost of 
funding in the way described by our investigator. Barclays was able to maintain the 
same margin between 2006 and a large part of 2008, so the way Barclays was able 
to manage its SVR during this period is markedly different to other lenders. 
The way Barclays varied its SVR by maintaining the same margin from March 2009 
until 2020 contradicts what other lenders and its expert report say about the ongoing 
cost of funding and the impact this had post banking crisis.
It accepts Barclays has provided our service with information and evidence in 
confidence and there are limitations to how much of that can be shared in our 
response to the complaint. But it requires our service to qualify our conclusions as to 
the fairness of each variation, to be satisfied of the impact of Barclays cost of funds 
over the years.
This includes addressing the Braganza duty in law to ensure Barclays acted fairly 
and did not breach its duty by setting rates in an arbitrary or capricious manner. 
The assessment of this complaint does not address the variations made by Barclays 
in recent years as it only covers the period until 2020.
In response, the investigator confirmed that she would pass the case to an ombudsman for a 
final decision  inviting both parties to provide any further comments or information they 
would like the ombudsman to consider by 6 March 2023. Neither party made any further 
representations.
As the complaint could not be resolved informally and as the deadline for the parties to 
respond has now passed, it is now appropriate for me to issue my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.When considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case, Im 
required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook to take into 
account the relevant law, regulations, and good industry practice, when reaching my 
decision. 
Ive given careful consideration to all the submissions made by both parties, but I wont 
address each and every point that has been raised. Ill focus on the matters that I consider 
most relevant to how Ive reached a fair outcome  in keeping with the informal nature of our 
service. 
Having done all that, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise this will be 
disappointing for Mr W. But I hope the reasons I have set out below will help him to 
understand why I have come to this conclusion. 
I have explained the position relating to Barclays objection to our service considering Mr Ws 
complaint under the DISP rules relating to time limits for bringing complaints. Ive also set 
out our investigators findings in relation to this. 
Neither Barclays nor Mr Ws representative have sought to challenge the findings of the 
investigator on this point. But for completeness, I can confirm that I largely agree with the 
investigators findings when considering our jurisdiction. The approach the investigator took 
reflects the decision of the High Court in an application for judicial review of another 
ombudsmans decision in a similar case. As such I am satisfied: 
I do have the power to consider a complaint about the amount and fairness of the 
interest Mr W has been charged, but only from 10 February 2015 onwards  the 
complaint about charges before that date are out of time; and
In order to consider the fairness of the interest charges that are in time, it is 
necessary for me to take into account the historic changes to Barclays SVR, since 
the SVR charged during the period that is in time is the result not only of decisions 
Barclays made during that period, but also the result of decisions it made prior to it. 
This includes considering whether the rate charged derived from earlier reliance on 
an unfair term or for reasons other than those allowed by the contract. Thats 
because each time Barclays charges interest, it must have a fair and lawful basis for 
doing so.
In addition to this I also note that for the same reasons given, any complaint about 
the information provided to Mr W at the point of sale which he says led him into 
believing the SVR would track the base rate had not been brought in time, under 
DISP 2.8.2(R). As such, this service cannot consider a complaint about the 
information provided to Mr W at the point of sale which he says led him into believing 
the SVR would track the base rate, as that complaint has been made too late.
Mr Ws representative has raised many individual complaint points. However, I consider the 
overall complaint to break down into two key points:
Mr W had a legitimate expectation that his mortgage would track the base rate once 
it reverted to the variable rate. As it did not do so, Barclays has treated him unfairly.
Mr W has paid an unfairly high rate of interest than compared to what he should have 
paid from 10 February 2015 onwards because in varying the SVR Barclays (i) relied 
on an unfair term and/or (ii) did not vary the SVR for a reason allowed by the terms 
and conditions.I will deal with each point in turn. 
Did Barclays actions cause Mr W to have a legitimate expectation that his mortgage would 
track the Bank of England base rate?
Mr Ws representative considers Barclays actions to have given Mr W a legitimate 
expectation that his mortgage would track the base rate. As I mentioned above, this part of 
Mr Ws complaint is out of time. 
To the extent that Mr Ws representative is suggesting that this is also a basis to complain 
about the charges that are in time, I disagree with its conclusions. 
The mortgage documentation is clear in that Mr Ws mortgage would revert to the SVR once 
his discounted variable interest rate period expired. I havent seen any evidence that 
persuades me that Barclays was obligated, contractually or otherwise, to have its SVR track 
the base rate. 
I am aware Mr Ws representative argues that, as the mortgage general terms and 
conditions were not included in the mortgage offer letter, they should not form part of the 
mortgage contract. I disagree with this conclusion. 
Barclays was not obligated to set out all the terms and conditions governing its mortgages in 
one document. And while I appreciate this means Mr W would need to read more than one 
document to understand and appreciate the terms that governed his mortgage, given this 
was a substantial liability, secured on their principal asset, I think Mr W ought reasonably to 
be treated as if he had read all of the information provided. And in any event, the mortgage 
offer did include an extract of the key supplementary mortgage conditions. This included 
information about how the interest rate on any part of Mr Ws mortgage which is variable 
would operate in line with the mortgage terms and conditions. 
Im also not aware of any evidence that can properly be said to show that Barclays acted in a 
way where it committed to keep the margin between the base rate and the SVR the same  
the fact that this margin didnt substantially change over a period of time isnt sufficient to 
indicate that Barclays had agreed to give up its right as set out in the contract, and I think 
that in commercial terms this would have been an odd decision, given the extent to which 
funding costs can change. Finally, I am not aware of any principle of law that, on the facts of 
this case, would obviously commit Barclays to doing so. 
So, it follows that I do not uphold this part of Mr Ws complaint.
Fairness of interest charged: the interest rate variation terms
I must consider whether from 10 February 2015 onwards, Mr W paid an unfairly high rate of 
interest. I consider a key consideration here to be whether the terms allowing Barclays to 
vary the SVR is the sort of terms the courts would consider to be unfair as a matter of law. 
The law on unfair terms is an important part of consumer protection measures and prevents 
businesses from taking advantage  whether consciously or otherwise  of their customers, 
who have limited bargaining power. If a variation made in reliance on an unfair term 
contributed to the rate charged from 10 February 2015 onwards, then that might be relevant 
to whether interest charged from February 2015 was fair. 
To assess the fairness of the interest rate terms, it is helpful to first set out the relevant terms 
themselves: Section four of the mortgage offer issued to Mr W in March 2006 set out that his 2-year 
discounted variable interest rate product would operate as follows:
A variable rate, currently 6.59% with a discount of 1.5% until 31/03/2008, giving a current 
rate payable of 5.09%...after 31/03/2008, the rate will be Barclays Bank PLC standard 
variable rate, currently 6.59%, for the remainder of the term. Following an interest rate 
change, your monthly payments will be amended at the first available monthly payment 
date.
Included in the mortgage offer were the Supplementary Mortgage Conditions which go on to 
state:
7 If this offer letter shows that the interest rate on any part of your mortgage is variable, 
we may vary the interest rate on that part of your mortgage for one, or more, of the following
reasons:-
a) if there has been a change in the Bank of England base rate or interest rate levels
generally;
b) if investment interest rates have been increased or decreased;
c) to reflect market conditions generally;
d) because of changes in technology;
e) to take account of decisions by a court, ombudsman, regulator or similar body.
Provided that if any of the above reasons is found to be invalid, we may still vary our interest
rates for any of the remaining reasons. We will decide on the timing and percentage of any
rate change.
We may also vary any of our specified rates of interest for any other valid reason.
In my view, the law relating to unfair terms in consumer contracts is of particular relevance to 
this aspect of the complaint, specifically the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts 
Regulations 1999 (UTCCR).
I have carefully considered the relevant law and how it applies to Mr Ws complaint. In doing 
so, when deciding whether the variation clause was unfair, Im satisfied the key issues I 
need to consider are whether (i) the term is a core term and (ii) whether the term creates a 
significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations to the consumers detriment 
contrary to the requirements of good faith. 
This includes considering whether the terms in this agreement go further than reasonably 
necessary to protect Barclays legitimate interests, whether the SVR variation clauses are 
sufficiently transparent, and whether there were significant barriers to Mr W dissolving the 
contract. 
The decision around whether the term is unfair should be made in the light of what sort of 
contract is in issue and what the contract is about, as well as what the other terms say and 
all the circumstances that existed when the term was agreed. Assessing whether a term is 
unfair involves winding the clock back to the date the term was agreed, and then standing 
back to consider the term in its full context, both within the contract and in all the surrounding 
circumstances.
Is the relevant term a core term? The terms in question relate to the mechanism for amending the price of the services 
provided, not the price itself. So, I am satisfied they are ancillary terms whose fairness can 
be assessed under the applicable fair terms legislation. 
Do the terms create a significant imbalance contrary to the requirements of good faith? 
One of the considerations when determining if the terms create a significant imbalance is 
whether the terms of the agreement deprive the consumer of an advantage which they 
would enjoy under national law if the term was not there. 
I am not persuaded that the interest rate variation clause applicable to Mr Ws mortgage 
contract does this. At a general level, such clauses have a legitimate purpose and are 
common in financial services consumer contracts. Particularly those of long or indeterminate 
duration, such as mortgage agreements. A fair variation term can benefit both consumers 
and lenders. Providing flexibility and a wider choice to consumers and enabling firms to 
provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest rates they charge 
to reflect changes in circumstances, particularly in their own costs of funding.1
A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for future changes that justify increases in 
the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds and things such as changing regulatory 
requirements are by their very nature difficult to foresee. So, Im satisfied that if the 
agreement itself didnt include a rate variation clause, its reasonable to assume that national 
law would provide a mechanism for allowing a lender to vary the rate for legitimate reasons. 
And I think the average consumer could reasonably be assumed to accept this and agree to 
it in hypothetical negotiations. 
In addition, when considering whether there was a significant barrier to exit, it is important to 
note that there was no ERC applicable to Mr Ws mortgage at the point it reverted to the 
SVR on 31 March 2008. So, if Barclays had exercised its rights as set by the variation term, 
and Mr W was unhappy with that decision, he was free under the contract to transfer his 
mortgage to another lender should he have wished without having to pay this charge.
While Mr Ws representative has said that other costs impacted on his ability to redeem the 
mortgage such as switching costs, Im not persuaded these are the sort of significant 
barriers that the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) and the FCA had in mind 
when determining whether a variation clause is unfair. Mr W would incur these costs if ever 
he sought to switch lender. 
So, I dont think the variation terms would be considered unfair simply because at a general 
level there would be a cost to a consumer from moving elsewhere. 
Ive also considered whether the terms in Mr Ws agreement go further than reasonably
necessary to protect Barclays legitimate interests and whether the variation clauses are
sufficiently transparent. 
Barclays has said that may vary the interest rate for any of the reasons listed in the terms 
and conditions. An extract of which has been set out above. 
Taking everything into account, including relevant case law, I am not satisfied that the terms 
necessarily meet the wider transparency requirements. While grammatically they are easy to 
follow, some of the terms allowing for the SVR to be varied are broad, and the 
circumstances in which changes might be made give Barclays significant discretion about 
when it can make changes to the SVR and by how much.
1 FCA Guidance (FG18/07 Paragraph 34)That said, this alone is not determinative for the case. The central issue I need to decide is 
whether there has been any unfairness to Mr W from February 2015 onwards. The fairness 
of the underlying variation clause will not of itself properly answer that question. 
Our service is required to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. That 
includes, but is not limited to, relevant law. So, while Ive taken account of the relevant law 
regarding unfair contract terms, Ive also thought more broadly about whether the way, and 
the extent to which, the terms have been used has resulted in unfair treatment for Mr W. 
I think that is the ultimate question I need to answer in deciding whether to uphold this case. 
When considering everything Im satisfied Barclays has operated withing the relevant terms 
and conditions, Ill explain why. 
Has Barclays exercised the terms fairly? 
In answering this question, I have explained that although Im only able to consider the
fairness of interest charged to Mr Ws mortgage since 10 February 2015, why its necessary 
for me to consider historic changes to Barclays SVR.
Ive considered all the available evidence and all of the changes Barclays made to the SVR
since Mr W took his mortgage. Having done so, I am not persuaded that anything
Barclays has done in varying the rate has led to Mr W being treated unfairly. I have set out 
why below.
For reasons of commercial confidentiality, I havent set out in detail the evidence Barclays
has been able to provide in full or provided copies of it to Mr W. Our rules allow me
to accept information in confidence, so that only a description of it is disclosed, where
I consider it appropriate to do so. In this case, I do consider it appropriate to accept the
information and evidence Barclays has provided in confidence, subject to the summary of it
I have set out in this decision.
When Mr W took out his mortgage in April 2006 the difference between the base rate and 
the SVR was 2.09%. Some months later, in December 2006 this increased to 2.14%. 
Thereafter, until November 2008 the changes Barclays made to the SVR were soon after 
changes were made to the base rate and by the same amount. So the margin remained the 
same. 
The changes to the margin largely occurred between November 2008 and March 2009. 
During this time not all the base rate reductions were passed on and the margin increased to 
4.49%.
 
Ive already set out that this was not a tracker mortgage, so Barclays was not contractually
obligated to track the base rate. Nor is it the case that Mr Ws mortgage had a cap
preventing Barclays SVR from increasing beyond a certain margin above the base rate. 
So, there was nothing in the contract that expressly prohibited Barclays from setting the SVR 
at a level whereby the margin between the SVR and base rate would change. But that 
doesnt mean that Barclays could set the SVR at whatever level it chose. As discussed 
above, the terms enabling Barclays to vary the SVR itself must be fair (to prevent 
businesses taking advantage of customers), and Barclays had to ensure that in varying the 
SVR it only did so for one of the reasons set out in the contract.
To evidence its decisions at the time and reliance on the above terms, Barclays has told us 
that despite a reduction in the Bank of England base rate, its overall funding costs increased 
considerably between 2008 and 2009. Barclays has provided relevant explanations and reasoning behind the decisions made to 
vary the interest rate during this period. This is supported by evidence that shows the direct 
impact of its increased cost of funding and how this correlated with its decision to vary the 
SVR.
Barclays has shown our service that its pre-tax profit significantly reduced between 2008 and 
2009. This was largely due to several contributing factors including an increased cost of both 
wholesale and retail funding coupled with an increase in the perceived risk of default by 
Barclays leading to an increased cost of administering those mortgages accounts as well as 
overall increased loss provisioning. Barclays has evidenced the further impact it would have 
suffered had the full base rate reductions been passed on during this time. Barclays has 
explained why margins had to be carefully monitored and managed to protect its capital 
base to protect against any financial instability.
Whilst the evidence around Barclays specific decision making at the time of the 
December 2006 variation is somewhat limited, it has provided information to show that the 
widening of the SVR margin from 2.09% at this time to 4.49% in March 2009 reflects the 
change in the funding costs it experienced as a result of changes in market conditions in the 
lead up to and during the global financial crisis and interest rate levels. The increase in the 
margin of 2.40% roughly equates to the percentage increases of the various funding costs 
referred to above.   
Considering all of the information and evidence available to me, I have not seen any 
evidence to suggest the changes Barclays made were arbitrary, excessive, or unfair. Rather, 
the evidence Ive seen satisfies me that Barclays acted in line with its terms and conditions 
to protect its legitimate interests while balancing its obligation to treat Mr W fairly. And
Im further satisfied that the evidence Barclays has been able to provide for this period is 
corroborated by evidence of wider market conditions at the time. 
At this time, the mortgage market was going through a period of significant change as a
result of the global financial crisis. This impacted the funding costs of businesses, including
Barclays, and was reflected in changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across
the market at the time. This was clear at the time and has been the subject of analysis by
both the Bank of England2 and the FCA3 since. Whilst the base rate did reduce significantly
during this period, the cost to lenders of funding their businesses changed, as did their
prudential requirements. These were made up of several factors that are not directly linked
to base rate. With this in mind, and in conjunction with the evidence Barclays has been able
to provide, I am satisfied it had legitimate reasons to vary its SVR in the way that it did.
While I note Mr Ws representative has sought and provided expert reports to demonstrate 
the perceived loss on cases of this nature, I am not persuaded they outweigh the business 
specific evidence provided by Barclays on the impact of the financial crisis on its own cost of 
funding. In addition, as I have said above, I have considered other sources such as the 
Bank of England that led me to a different conclusion from Mr Ws representative.
In response to the investigators consideration of this complaint, Mr Ws representative says 
that Barclays breached its Braganza duty not to exercise its discretion to vary the SVR 
reasonably from March 2009 onwards. Mr Ws representative specifically says the way 
2 Quarterly Bulletin, Q4 2014, Bank of England  Bank funding costs: what are they, what
determines them and why do they matter?
3 May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in financial services
consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act paragraphs 2.8 to 2.10Barclays varied its SVR by maintaining the same margin from March 2009 contradicts what 
other lenders and its own expert report say about the ongoing cost of funding and the impact 
this had post banking crisis.
I disagree with that conclusion and that Barclays was not impacted by wider market factors. 
In the aftermath of the global financial crisis, there were long lasting effects on the financial 
economy which ultimately changed the regulatory landscape. This included heightened 
concerns that a reduced availability of funding and the resulting rollover of risk would 
adversely affect the performance of banks and building societies leading to tightening of 
capital requirements to ensure sustainability.
Whilst Barclays was not obligated to track base rate or reduce its SVR solely because the 
base rate had reduced. The changes it did make to its SVR post March 2009, until Mr Ws 
mortgage was redeemed in 2016, were soon after changes were made to the base rate and 
by the same amount  therefore maintaining the margin that had been in place since the end 
of the global financial crisis. Those changes were permitted under the term of the contract. 
And as I have set out above, Barclays cost of funding was multi-faceted, with the base rate 
being only one of several influencing factors when setting its margins. So, in the 
circumstances, for the reasons set out above, if there was a Braganza duty in the present 
case, Im satisfied that Barclays did not breach it since it approached the question of varying 
the SVR fairly and rationally.
Summary
When considering all of the above, even if I were to conclude that the relevant terms were 
unfair pursuant to UTCCR, I am not persuaded that Barclays operated them in an unfair 
manner when setting and varying the interest rate that applied to Mr Ws mortgage. That 
being the case, I dont think there is any basis to say that they somehow contributed to Mr W 
being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on his mortgage during the period I can 
consider, and Ive seen no evidence to say that the interest he was charged during that 
period was unfair for any other reason.
I have also considered the representatives point that Barclays has breached Principle 6 of
the FCA Handbook and MCOB 11.5(1)(b). Having done so, and for much the same reasons
set out above, Im not persuaded it has.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
make no award against Barclays Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2023.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman