DRN-4312287
The complaint
Mr H complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance wrongly recorded 
the make and model of the car hed acquired via a hire purchase agreement on the 
documentation. He says this would have had legal implications for him.
What happened
In March 2019 Mr H decided to buy a used car from a dealer. He entered into a 49-month 
hire purchase agreement with Motonovo to finance the purchase. The agreement set out 
there were 48 monthly payments of £117.88, a payment of £316.88 in the 49th month and 
total fees of £199 payable at the end of the contract which included the option to purchase 
fee.
Mr H made regularly payments under the agreement and in January 2023 decided to use the 
car in part-exchange for another vehicle which was being sold by another dealer. He says 
that after he traded the car in he was told by this other dealer that the hire purchase 
agreement had been settled in full.
In March 2023 Mr H received a letter from Motonovo stating there were arrears on his 
account, and that he still owed two months payments. On contacting Motonovo, Mr H then 
discovered that the first car had been wrongly described by both make and model on the hire 
purchase agreement. He complained to Motonovo about the implications of this error.
Mr H says that he was told by Motonovo that it agreed there was a mistake and that he 
received an offer to cover the outstanding balance as well as compensation. He says that 
subsequently this didnt happen.
Mr H paid the outstanding amount on the account. He later received a final response letter 
from Motonovo which set out that it accepted there was an error as to the vehicle recorded 
on the hire purchase agreement, but the chassis number and registration plate were both 
correctly shown. It said the correct vehicle was also shown on the HPI. Motonovo said that 
the error as to the make and model on the HP agreement wouldnt affect Mr H.
Motonovo said that the outstanding amount had been correctly raised with Mr H and were in 
accordance with the agreements terms and conditions as  to the fess added to the end of 
the agreement. It said it would uphold his complaint in regard to the wrong vehicle, but it 
didnt offer Mr H any compensation or to waive the amount that had been outstanding.
Mr H was unhappy at Motonovos response to his complaint and complained to this service. 
He said the hire purchase agreement had been set up all wrong and he was concerned that 
the wrong vehicle being recorded on the finance documentation could have caused him legal 
problems had he had an accident or involvement with the police for any reason. He said he 
had been paying for a car he had never owned for four years.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. He said that 
while he appreciated Mr H found this error frustrating there wasnt any reason to believe 
there would have been any legal implications for him because of it. Our investigator said that 
he hadnt seen any evidence that Motonovo had offered Mr H any compensation in relation 
to this mistake and that the outstanding amount it had requested in March 2023 was correct.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He said that the error was due to Motonovo and 
that it had continued to wrongly refer to the cars make and model even though it was aware 
this was incorrect. He said he had been paying for a car that wasnt in his possession.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Hs strength of feeling that there was something wrong with his hire purchase 
agreement but, while this will be of disappointment to him, Im not going to uphold his 
complaint. I will explain why below.
It isnt disputed by Motonovo that the car is wrongly described in terms of its make and 
model in the hire purchase agreement. And I acknowledge that this doesnt only appear 
once on the document but in several places. However, the agreement also has recorded on 
it the chassis number and the registration, and both of these are for the correct car. 
Mr H says hes been advised that the error as to the cars make and model could have had 
legal implications for him. However, Motonovo says the administrative error wouldnt have 
had any impact on the agreement. Looking at the hire purchase, I dont think Mr H has been 
given the correct advice as the effect of this mistake. I think there is sufficient information on 
the agreement to correctly identify the car so the finance agreements standing wouldnt be 
affected. That means that Mr H rights and responsibilities under the hire purchase 
agreement still applied. He was entitled to use the car and had obligations regarding making 
the monthly payments and keeping it insured and maintained. I dont agree he had been 
paying for a car that he didnt have.
I also disagree that this issue would have rendered void any insurance policy in place for the 
car since the policy itself would correctly have set out the make and model. And, as set out 
above, Mr H had the right to use the vehicle.
Mr H says that he was told by the dealer it was Motonovos mistake and Motonovo says it 
was the dealers error. But since this error was purely administrative, I dont think it matters 
where it originated from.
Mr H has also said that he didnt have a copy of the financial agreement so was unaware of 
how the car had been recorded. I dont know why he didnt have a copy, but I think its 
reasonable to say that Mr H could have requested a copy at any time during the life of the 
hire purchase.
Mr H has paid the outstanding amount on the agreement so there is now no outstanding 
balance . I can appreciate it would have been frustrating for Mr H to have been told he didnt 
owe anything when the car was traded in and then be contacted about an outstanding 
amount. However, looking at Mr Hs account and the applicable fees that were due when the 
agreement ended, I think these have been correctly applied.
I havent seen anything that would support Mr Hs belief that Motonovo was to pay him 
compensation for the error on the financial agreement, Ive looked through the contact notes 
and its final response letter and this isnt mentioned. So, I cant reasonably say this offer was made. 
While I agree there was an error on the financial agreement, Im satisfied that this wouldnt 
have had any consequences or impact on Mr H. I dont think Motonovo acted unfairly when 
considering Mr Hs complaint and reaching the conclusion that it did. And for the reasons 
given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman