DRN-3456369
The complaint
Ms S, who is represented by a third party, complains that Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One), irresponsibly granted her two credit cards she couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In June 2015 Ms S entered into an agreement with Capital One to have access to credit by 
way of a credit card account  Account A. The initial credit limit was £1,000, increasing to 
£1,250 in January 2016 and then £1,750 in February 2017. 
In January 2018 Ms S entered into a second agreement with Capital One for a credit card 
account  Account B. The initial credit limit was £200 and this was never increased. This 
account went into default in December 2018
Ms S says that Capital One didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
her credit card account. She says if it had, it would have seen the agreement wasnt 
affordable for her as she was struggling to manage several loans and other credit cards at 
the same time. 
Capital One said it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to check Ms Ss 
financial circumstances before granting her the credit 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Ms S didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Capital One will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
In this decision I will not be looking into the merits of whether Capital One was right to open 
Account A in June 2015. Thats because, for reasons that our adjudicator has already given 
and Ms S has accepted, that part of the complaint has been brought to us too late under our 
rules. So in this decision I will first be looking at the checks Capital One carried out for the 
credit limit increases for Account A before then considering the opening of Account B. After 
that Ill consider what those checks may have shown. 
Capital Ones checks for the credit limit increases for Account A 
Ms S says that Capital One acted irresponsibly by increasing her credit limit on both 
occasions given that she was already struggling to manage her borrowing elsewhere. 
From what Ive seen from the checks carried out by Capital One for both credit limit 
increases, Ms S was managing a mortgage, current account, store card borrowing and a 
loan without apparent difficulty. At the time of the first credit limit increase, in January 2016, 
Ms S was making minimum payments to her account and went over her credit limit on two 
occasions in the months leading up to the credit limit increase, but didnt incur any late fees. 
And at the time of the second credit limit increase, in February 2017, Ive seen that Ms S 
was continuing to make minimum payments and again, whilst not incurring late fees, shed 
exceeded her credit limit on the card around six months before the increase. 
I think these factors ought to have indicated it was likely Ms S was overly reliant on 
borrowing and that further borrowing may not have been sustainable. It therefore would have 
been proportionate for Capital One to have got a more thorough understanding of her 
financial circumstances before increasing her credit limit on each occasion.
Capital Ones checks for the opening of Account B
Before granting this account, in January 2018, Capital One looked into Ms Ss financial 
situation, including the way shed managed Account A. Ive seen that Ms S provided details 
about the income from her occupation on her application, which showed her as having an 
annual income of £14,000. By this time Capital One would also have been aware of how 
Ms S was managing her other Capital One account, which as Ive already said included 
going over her credit limit from time to time. From the credit check it carried out, Capital One 
would also have been aware that Ms S had gone over her limit on a credit card with another 
provider and had around a third of her monthly income going towards paying unsecured 
debt. However, there were also no recent defaults against any of her borrowing at that time 
and nor were there court judgments registered against her.
Overall, and again, I think these factors ought to have indicated that Ms S was continuing to 
be overly reliant on borrowing and that any further borrowing may not have been 
sustainable. It therefore would have been proportionate for Capital One to have got a more 
thorough understanding of her financial circumstances before agreeing to open this account 
for Ms S. 
What would proportionate checks have shown for the credit limit increases for Account A 
and the account opening for Account B?
As Ive said above, I think it would have been proportionate for Capital One to have carried 
out further checks before lending to Ms S. In particular, I think it needed a better 
understanding of her committed expenditure, including her unsecured borrowing elsewhere.
I see our adjudicator asked Ms S for some further details and evidence about her financial 
circumstances at the relevant time, such as bank statements. This was to help us 
understand what, if anything, Capital One might have found out if it completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks. However, Ms S hasnt provided sufficient information to help us 
determine whether or not Capital One made a fair lending decision. 
In conclusion, having looked carefully at all the available evidence and information, I dont 
think Ms S has been able to demonstrate that her credit card agreement with Capital One 
was unaffordable. So I cant reasonably conclude that Capital One ought to have known she 
would struggle to make the repayments. Im therefore not persuaded that Capital One acted unfairly in approving her for the card. As Im not persuaded that Capital One acted unfairly, I 
dont think it needs to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman