DRN-3822865
The complaint
Miss H complains that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd (CGICE) 
declined her pet insurance claims. My references to CGICE include its agents.
What happened
Miss H had pet insurance for her dog from August 2019 which renewed annually. CGICE is 
the insurer. From September 2021 Miss H made ongoing claims for treatment of her dogs 
hindlimb lameness.
CGICE declined the claims. The policy excluded claims caused by Miss Hs dog being 
overweight. CGICE said the dogs vet record showed his medical problem was due to him 
being overweight so the claims werent covered. 
CGICE accepted the vet records showed the dogs lameness may be due to a partial 
cruciate tear. But it said numerous studies showed that cruciate rupture could be due to 
multiple factors and obesity was one factor. And, as the vet had recommended the dog 
needed to lose weight, his weight was a contributing factor towards his condition. 
Miss H complained us. She said her vet had written to CGICE saying her dogs weight gain 
was a result of his lameness, not the cause of his lameness but it had ignored the vets 
evidence. She wants CGICE to pay the claims.
Our investigator said CGICE unfairly declined the claims. She recommended CGICE pay the 
claims in line with the remaining policy terms, plus interest if Miss H had already paid the vet.
CGICE disagrees and wants an ombudmans decision. In response to our investigators 
recommendation CGICE:
Provided more information, including various studies, which it said supported its view 
that a dog being overweight was likely to cause cruciate ligament and other 
problems.
Detailed why it thought the vet records showed Miss Hs dog was overweight. 
Said the policy began on 18 September 2021 and as the dog was seen by the vet for 
mobility problems on 30 September 2021 he showed the symptoms claimed for 
within the first 14 days of the policy starting so there was no cover. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. 
I uphold the complaint as I think CGICE unreasonably declined the claims. Ill explain why.
The policy excludes claims for vet fees for :
Any claims resulting from Your pet being medically overweightand this results in 
Your pet needing Treatment as a result of not being the recommended medical 
weight for its age, breed type and sex as recommended by an independent Vet.
Before I consider whether CGICE reasonably used the above overweight exclusion to 
decline the claims Ill consider another exclusion that CGICE raised at the end of our 
investigation of this complaint. CGICE recently told us Miss Hs policy began on 
18 September 2021 and her dog first went to the vet with the claimed for symptoms within 
the first 14 days of the policy. If that information was correct it would mean the claims could 
be excluded under the policy terms as the policy excludes claims for illness that showed 
clinical signs or symptoms within the first 14 days of a policy.
But all the other evidence about the policy start date that CGICE has provided says the 
policy started on 6 August 2019 and renewed each year. The policy schedule shows the 
policy start date as 6 August. Im satisfied from the majority of evidence which CGICE 
provided that Miss Hs policy did start on 6 August 2019 and renewed annually. So I think 
Miss Hs dog didnt see the vet with the claimed for symptoms within the first 14 days of the 
policy. I find that CGICE has no basis to exclude the claims under the no cover for illness 
within the first 14 days of a policy exclusion.
Im also satisfied that CGICE unfairly declined the claims on the basis of the overweight 
exclusion. Ive considered the evidence CGICE provided about a dog being overweight and 
obese increasing the risk of joint damage, cruciate ligament rupture and osteoarthritis. From 
that evidence I think that a dog being overweight can be a factor in having those medical 
conditions. And I think the vet records and body score condition information for Miss Hs dog 
show he was overweight, particularly in the months of ongoing treatment.
But the important point is that the policy excludes claims resulting (my emphasis) from 
Your pet being medically overweightand this results (my emphasis) in Your pet needing 
Treatment. That means to fairly rely on the overweight exclusion to decline the claims 
CGICE has to show that Miss Hs dogs treatment was as a result of him being overweight.
I accept the vet record of 20 September 2021, when the vet first saw Miss Hs dog for 
mobility problems, said he needs to lose weight. But Miss Hs vet practice has written to 
CGICE on two occasions giving expert evidence about whether the treatment claimed for 
was as a result of the dogs weight. The vet who examined the dog told CGICE :
You suggested that (dogs name) lameness and presentation was a consequence of 
his weight/body condition. This is an incorrect assumption. In (dogs name) case, his 
weight gain has been an unfortunate sequela to the chronicity of his lameness and 
due to the limitations of his mobility with current reduction of exercise.
So the treating vets clear evidence is that Miss Hs dogs weight gain was as a result of his 
lameness, not that the lameness was as a result of him being overweight.
The vet practice manager also told CGICE in March 2022:
We appreciate you have listed the dates that (dogs name) was first seen for this 
lameness and the corresponding notes relating to his weight gain, however we would 
like to point out that there is no mention of (dogs name) weight being a concern prior 
to this point in his history and we would still contest that the weight gain seen is a 
direct result of his mobility issues, not a cause for them
(the x-rays) suggest that there could be underlying pathology contributing to (dogs 
name) mobility issues-which have led to his reduction in exercise and recent 
struggles with his weight. Again, we are not disputing that weight loss is now needed, 
but that it is a result from and not a cause of his clinical presentation.
So the expert vet evidence is again that Miss Hs dog being overweight was due to his 
mobility issues and his weight wasnt the cause of his mobility issues. Given the very clear expert evidence from Miss Hs dogs vet and the vet practice that her 
dogs mobility problems caused him to be overweight, not that his weight caused his mobility 
problems, Im not persuaded that CGICE has shown the dogs weight resulted in him 
needing the treatment claimed. So I think CGICE unreasonably relied on the overweight 
exclusion to decline the claims.
Putting things right
CGICE must pay the claims in line with the remaining policy terms. If Miss H has already 
paid the vet CGICE should add interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd to pay the claims in line with 
the remaining policy terms. If Miss H has already paid the vet Casualty & General Insurance 
Company (Europe) Ltd should add interest* at 8% simple a year from the dates the vets bills 
were settled to the date of settlement with Miss H.
*If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest it should tell Miss H how much 
its taken off. It should also give Miss H a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 May 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman