The complaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) hasn't done enough to assist 
him with his financial difficulties. Although it is now helping him clear his overdraft, he 
complains it should have done this sooner when he got into difficulties in 2014. Instead, it 
only helped him bring his overdraft back within its limit.  
What happened
Mr C originally had a packaged account with RBS. The account had an authorised overdraft 
limit of £800. In 2012 Mr C was in financial difficulties and RBS agreed a repayment plan 
with him. It also downgraded the account to a fee free account and refunded over £263 in 
fees and charges. It was around this time Mr C ceased to use this account as his main bank 
account. 
In 2014, Mr C exceeded his agreed authorised overdraft limit. RBS contacted him inviting 
him to get in touch to see if it could help.  Another repayment plan was agreed to bring the 
overdraft within the agreed limit. It also refunded over £144 in fees and charges and waived 
pending charges. 
Whilst we were looking into a separate complaint about the packaged account, Mr C 
complained that he didn't think RBS had done enough to help him in 2014. He complains 
RBS should have removed the overdraft limit in its entirety and allow him to repay it at an 
agreed affordable monthly amount. 
Our investigator concluded that RBS had acted fairly in its dealings with Mr C. She found the 
charges had been applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account but it 
had nevertheless refunded some of them. She also didn't think it would have been apparent 
to RBS that Mr C was in financial difficulties as the account mainly operated within the 
agreed limit. 
Mr C doesn't agree he's been treated fairly. In summary, he's said:
He breached the terms of his agreement with RBS and so it should have done more
at the time.
Regular deposits into the account stopped in 2010. Since then the account has been
used for benefit payments and payday loans.
RBS would have done credit checks and reviews during this time so it ought to have
known of his financial situation.
He compares this outcome against RBS with our approach to payday loans and
doesn't think if he was applying for the overdraft in 2014 that it would have been
granted.
DRN-1207760In support of his position Mr C has provided bank statements for an account held with 
another provider and a spreadsheet detailing the payday and short terms loans he has had 
over the past few years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When Mr C exceeded his overdraft limit in 2014 RBS contacted him about that as I would 
expect it to do. Banks and credit providers are required to treat those in financial difficulties 
with due consideration and forbearance. But there is no set way that should be done - that 
is, there is no requirement to refund charges or remove interest, for example. 
Whilst I accept that Mr C's account history with RBS does show repayments to payday 
lenders, I can also see that he operated the account, for the most part, within the agreed 
overdraft limit. It would only have been on him exceeding his limit that RBS would have 
otherwise interacted with the account; all the time it was operating within its limit the account 
was likely run automatically. I'm therefore not persuaded RBS ought to have known Mr C 
was experiencing financial difficulties when the account was being run within its agreed 
terms. And contrary to Mr C's arguments, I'm not aware of any requirement for credit 
providers to run credit checks during the term of existing borrowing. 
I do take Mr C's point that RBS could have noticed the payday loan repayments when he 
discussed the overdraft with it in 2014. But at the time he told RBS he was self-employed, 
had previously been out of work for three months, and discovered a staff member had been 
stealing from him and not paying clients. I think this would go some way to explain why he 
had exceeded his limit. There is no indication from the notes that Mr C was experiencing 
difficulties over and above that presented by his work situation or that he told RBS he was 
also borrowing more through another account (which wouldn't otherwise have been known 
to RBS). It was for Mr C to present an accurate picture of his finances and I don't think he 
did. Had he done so, RBS might have offered different options.
I have considered whether RBS should have done something more based on the information 
it did have. Mr C has argued it should have removed the overdraft in its entirety and come to 
a repayment agreement with him to reduce it. It has always been open to Mr C to reduce his 
limit. This can be done at his request. But I'm not persuaded removing the overdraft facility 
would necessarily have helped. That would have required Mr C to make a regular monthly 
payment to reduce that balance and separately operate the bank account without an 
overdraft.  I think it likely Mr C may have found himself entering into an unauthorised 
overdraft which would have incurred higher fees and charges than that applied to an 
authorised facility. It could also have pushed him into borrowing even more with payday 
lenders, neither of which would have helped with any financial difficulties. 
I note Mr C has argued that had he been applying for the overdraft in 2014 it wouldn't have 
been granted.  He argues this because his income into the account was benefits and he had 
payday loans; he doesn't believe benefit payments should be considered as income for 
credit worthiness assessments. This is a somewhat hypothetical argument as RBS wasn't 
carry out a credit worthiness check in 2014. And I disgaree with Mr C's point about benefit 
payments. Indeed, to automatically preclude benefit payments without looking at someone's 
overall financial situation and ability to repay is likely to be discriminatory and against the 
provisions of the Equality Act 2010. In any event, whilst Mr C's income into the account 
might have been benefits, it wasn't his only income as he'd told RBS he was self-employed. 
But as I say, this is all hypothetical and not really relevant to my consideration of how treated 
Mr C at the time.RBS agreed a repayment arrangement, refunded over £144 in fees and charges already 
applied and agreed to waive pending charges. I'm satisfied these were positive steps for 
RBS to take and I don't require it to do anymore.  
My final decision
For the reasons given, I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman