DRN-2980860
The complaint
Mr M complains on behalf of the estate of Mrs P. 
He says she was given unsuitable investment advice by Perspective (South) Limited, 
referred to as Perspective.   
What happened
In May 2012 Mrs P invested £238,720 in an offshore bond (the bond) and £11,280 in an 
ISA following advice from Perspective.  
In early April 2019 Mrs P sadly passed away, and in due course her bond was encashed 
because she was the only life assured. This resulted in additional income tax, in the sum of 
£68,523, for the year. 
Mr M complains that Perspective didnt provide proper advice on tax treatment of the bond 
as the tax liability couldve been deferred and/or reduced by adding a second life assured on 
the policy.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
Mrs P was retired at the time and was receiving income from annuities, a pension, 
and dividends from various investments. 
She owned her own property mortgage-free, and was preparing to rent-out her home 
after moving in with Mr M. She had no financial dependents or liabilities and was an 
experienced investor.  
The suitability letter made clear that Mrs Ps primary objective was to ensure that her 
portfolio generated an income after tax of approximately £40,000, to minimise the tax 
payable where possible, and to allow for the effects of inflation in the long run. 
Although the 2012 fact find isnt available, paperwork from around that time shows 
that Mrs P had inherited £250,000 which she was looking to invest. She also had 
around £200,000 in cash deposits, as well as other investments. 
Mrs Ps attitude to risk was rated as medium which is categorised as: investments 
primarily in UK equities, with some fixed interest, overseas equities and property, 
with a cash reserve.  
Perspective recommended that Mrs P split the available money between two 
portfolios  namely The Vanguard Balanced Portfolio of Passive Funds, and the 
OBSR Portfolio of Actively Managed Funds. Of this, she was advised to invest 
£11,280 in an ISA wrapper, and the remining £238,720 in a Nucleus Offshore bond. 
Perspective made clear that the offshore bond was recommended as no tax, apart 
from withholding tax on some dividends, is charged on the fund until such time as it is 
finally encashed or the accumulated withdrawals over any period exceeds 5% per 
annum of the original sum invested   
The advice wasnt unsuitable. The recommendation was in line with Mrs Ps attitude 
to risk and she had capacity for loss. The recommendation also matched Mrs Ps 
objective for income.
She cant say the recommendation was unsuitable just because Perspective didnt 
recommend adding a second life assured. Estate planning and inheritance tax 
mitigation wasnt Mrs Ps priority. Besides, the Key Features Document (KFD) 
contained information about adding a second life assured. 
Mrs P wanted to ensure a certain amount of income for the rest of her life, which the 
bond enabled, and she was happy to utilise her capital for this purpose if needed as 
she had no financial dependents. 
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he made the following key points:
He disagrees with the investigators rationale because shes applied a narrow focus. 
Mrs Ps primary objective was to ensure a regular income, and that income was paid 
in a tax efficient way. He accepts an offshore bond can meet these requirements 
however the bond is simply a tax deferral instrument and doesnt eliminate tax. 
The bond is designed to provide a regular income that does not create a tax liability 
(apart from withholding tax on dividends) until the bond is encashed. In other words, 
a chargeable event, which occurs when a bond is surrendered; or surrendered when 
the last (or only life assured) dies; or the bond is transferred; or the withdrawals are 
in excess of the cumulative 5% a year. 
Perspective was obliged to offer full and comprehensive advice covering the whole of 
the life of the bond. Any advice given on the suitability of the bond is incomplete if the 
tax liability in respect any one of the reasons above  in this case in the death of the 
only life assured  isnt fully explained and possible way to mitigate it. 
The tax in question isnt inheritance tax but income tax on the chargeable event but 
hes not disputing that the bond would remain part of Mrs Ps estate for the purposes 
of inheritance tax. 
Hes disputing that correct investment advice was given because the income tax 
treatment wasnt fully explained. 
He finds its surprising that estate planning wasnt something that Mrs P was 
considering. She was someone who wanted to understand the consequences of 
making any decision. Also, in 2012  when Mrs P was receiving advice  she and Mr 
M were setting up home together. Although they kept their finances separate, they 
were making a greater commitment to each other, part of which involved making new 
Wills, where they were both beneficiaries of each others Wills. 
Given issues with Mr Ms Will, unrelated to this matter, he and Mrs P had a number 
of meeting with their solicitor, so estate planning was very much at the forefront of 
their minds.  
If Mrs P had been advised properly about the income tax implications on death, the 
option to manage that liability and include Mr M and/or his children as lives assured 
on the bond wouldve been possible without it effecting her income. 
Mr M and or his children couldve then chosen a date to surrender the bond and the 
income tax liability couldve been reduced from £68,000 to approximately £30,000.  
Mr B referred to a Redemption bond which he feels wouldve met Mrs Ps priorities 
and continue to run after the death of the original investment.  
The investigator having considered the additional points, wasnt persuaded to change her 
mind.
 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, Im unable to safely 
say that the recommendation was unsuitable just because Perspective didnt recommend a 
second life assured.    
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr Ms strength of feeling about this matter. He has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont 
take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as 
much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Mr M (on behalf of the estate of Mrs P), and 
Perspective, and reach what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based 
on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, on a balance of probabilities whats more 
likely than not to have happened.
Based on what Mr M says, it seems he broadly accepts that that recommendation met Mrs 
Ps primary objective for ensuing a regular income and that the income was paid in a tax 
efficient way. For the record, I also agree for the same reasons set out by the investigator.  
However, I note Mr M maintains that any advice given on the suitability of the bond is 
incomplete, therefore unsuitable, if the tax liability in respect of the chargeable events  in 
this case the death of the only life assured  isnt fully explained and a possible way to 
mitigate it isnt given. 
In other words, if Mrs P had been advised properly about the income tax implications on 
death, the option to manage that liability and include Mr M and/or his children as lives 
assured on the bond wouldve been possible without it effecting her income. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, Im satisfied 
Perspective made reasonably clear the general position with regards to tax  when the bond 
is encashed or the accumulated withdrawals exceed 5% a year of the original sum. 
I note that based on what the investigator says, Perspective provided Mrs P with more 
information about how tax would be calculated if the bond was encashed including the KFD 
which I think was likely to have been provided. I note in its final response letter dated April 
2020, Perspective made clear that it was possible to assign segments of the bond in Mrs Ps 
lifetime, as confirmed in page 5 of the KFD. However, Mrs P wanted to maintain her level of 
income. Also, if any segment had been assigned, theyd need to be surrendered immediately 
which may have reduced Mrs Ps income which wouldnt have met her objective.  So, on balance Im satisfied that Mrs P was aware, or ought reasonably aware, of the 
general tax position upon encashment, whether that be because of her actions during her 
lifetime or upon her death. 
I appreciate Mr M says that the bond didnt eliminate tax, but I dont think Mrs P was at any 
point told or led to believe that it would. Im also mindful that Mrs P had investment 
experience and generally didnt make decisions without thinking through the consequences 
of her actions. Therefore, despite Mr Ms objections, on balance I cant say that the bond 
wasnt set up in the way that she wanted.  
If there was anything that Mrs P was unsure of or wanted to explore further, Im reasonably 
confident she will have asked Perspective and/or sought clarification. But if she didnt, its not 
something I can blame the Perspective for. 
Im persuaded that Mrs P had no plans to encash her investment and/or withdraw in excess 
of a cumulative 5% of the investment a year, and her primary objective was to ensure that 
her portfolio generated a tax efficient income for the rest of her life, if need be utilising her 
capital because she had no dependents.  
In other words, Im satisfied that Mrs P was keen on drawing an income in a tax efficient way 
during her lifetime, rather than expressing any specific concern about what happens to the 
bond upon her death. 
Im mindful the investigator says that estate planning and inheritance tax mitigation wasnt 
her priority which I think is probably correct. Despite what Mr M says, theres no dispute that 
the bond would remain part of Mrs Ps estate for the purpose of inheritance tax following her 
death. I also acknowledge that this wasnt the purpose of her seeking advice, so might 
explain why the advice didnt centre around tax mitigation following her death. 
As Ive pointed out, Mrs P wanted to ensure a certain amount of income for the rest of her 
life, which the bond enabled and she was happy to utilise her capital for this purpose if 
needed as she had no financial dependents. 
I appreciate that alternatives were available but given that Mrs Ps objective was broadly 
met, I dont think this rendered the recommendation unsuitable just because she wasnt 
advised and/or persuaded to add a second life assured who was not a higher rate tax-payer.  
Mrs P couldve included another life assured to the policy, there was certainly nothing 
stopping her from doing so, if thats what she wanted to do. Particularly if, based on what Mr 
M says, they were making new Wills and estate planning was at the forefront of their minds. 
But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr M says, I cant safely say 
that this was a priority for her, given that she had every opportunity to raise the issue, but 
didnt. In my opinion, an adviser can only advice based on the information provided, so if the 
adviser wasnt made aware that estate planning and/or tax mitigation upon encashment was 
a priority, I cant blame the business for not advising on that specific basis. 
Im mindful that Mrs Ps finances were separate to Mr Ms at the time, despite them setting 
up home together and the situation with the Wills. In my opinion its more likely than not Mrs 
P was content with the set-up of the bond, notwithstanding what she and Mr M may have 
decided to do with their respective wealth in due course. Im mindful Perspective says in its 
FRL says:
it is clear from our file that the primary objective of minimizing the tax liability' during Mrs 
Ps (name anonymised) lifetime has been met. At that time her finances were to continue to be kept separate from any other party, which we were also advised at later dates that her 
finances continue to remain separate. For example, annual review confirmation letter of May 
2018, and we have not been advised that this has since changed. Also, it is not possible to 
alter the lives assured at a later date.
Im mindful that Mr M disagrees with the investigators rational, but I dont think the rational 
and focused analysis of her view is unreasonable in this instance.  
I appreciate Mr M will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate his frustration, Im not persuaded to require Perspective to do anything. 
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this complaint 
and give Mr M, on behalf of the estate of Mrs P, what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman