DRN-3194539
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds handling of their claim under 
their building insurance policy, following an escape of water.
I will refer to Mr A for ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
In May 2021 there was a water leak in Mr As home. The problem was found with the 
upstairs bathroom sink. Mr A arranged for a plumber to stop the leak and made a claim to 
Tesco in respect of the damage caused. An inspection of the damage was arranged shortly 
afterwards. A contractor was needed to arrange for the property to be dried out before 
repairs could take place. An appointment was arranged for this to happen later in May. 
The contractor installed a drying machine. Mr A was unhappy with the level of noise and size 
of the machine which caused disruption in his home. He contacted Tesco in early June as he 
hadnt received any communication regarding the drying process. His understanding was it 
would be complete within 10 days. 
A morning appointment was arranged for early the next week. The engineers didnt arrive 
until around 11.45am. Mr A called Tesco twice that morning to find out when they would 
arrive, He says he didnt receive a contact from them to update him. Because of their late 
arrival Mr A had to turn the engineers away. He and his wife worked from home and had 
meetings that afternoon, meaning the noise would be too disruptive.
The next available morning appointment was for nine days later. Mr A points to it taking 
around 22 days in total before the drying machine was removed. He says this caused 
disturbed sleep and disruption when conducting work meetings from home. 
Tesco says its contractors tried to accommodate Mr As requests, but some level of flexibility 
is needed where tradesmen are involved. It says Mr A was offered the earliest appointment it 
had available that was convenient for him. And this was within its accepted service level 
agreements. Mr A wasnt happy with this outcome and referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says although the engineers hadnt attended 
as early in the day as Mr A wanted, they had attended as promised. He says the drying 
machine, although disruptive, was necessary to allow the property to dry out. Mr A didnt 
agree with this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have decided not to uphold Mr As complaint. I understand he will be 
disappointed, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Mr A isnt happy with the time the drying machine was left running in his home. He says he 
was told to leave this running 24/7. 
I can understand that this was disruptive, given the space it took up and the noise Mr A 
describes. Its clear the drying process was a necessary step prior to carrying out repairs. 
But Mr A says the engineer who left the drying machine, told him this would be completed in 
10 days. I note Tesco doesnt dispute this timeframe was communicated, or comment further 
on the time drying was expected to take. So, I think its reasonable to accept Mr As account 
of this conversation. 
Mr A contacted Tesco around ten days later to query why he hadnt received any contact. It 
was at this point that an appointment was arranged for the engineer(s) to re-attend. 
Mr A has described some confused information when he contacted the loss adjustor, eight 
days after the drying machine had been installed. He was told it had authorised for repair 
work to proceed. He made contact again the following day to say he hadnt been contacted 
by the drying contractor. The day after he contacted the drying contractor but was told 
authorisation hadnt been given. I acknowledge Mr As concerns and that this was frustrating 
for him. However, when he called Tesco, it was able to quickly establish that authorisation 
was in place for the works to proceed.
I have listened to the call recordings provided by Tesco. When Mr A calls after ten days of 
the drying machine being installed, he explains hes fed up with the noise and disruption its 
causing. He says he wants someone to visit as soon as possible. The call was escalated 
through to Tescos dispatch team. This was on a Friday and an appointment was arranged 
for the following Monday morning. 
Tesco left a voicemail for Mr A to call back once the appointment had been booked. I 
understand he didnt call back. But he received an email that also confirmed the appointment 
and responded to this to ask what time. He didnt receive a response to this.   
The engineers didnt attend until around 11.45am on the following Monday and Mr A turned 
them way, because of his work commitments. As above, he made calls during the morning 
to find out where the engineers were as he was expecting them to be there by 9am. 
I have listened to the call when the appointment was booked. From this its clear Tescos 
representative doesnt promise a 9am visit. 
When he called on the day of this appointment Tescos representative explains that Mr A 
had a morning window slot. She says its expected that the engineers would call to narrow 
the time down on the day, but this didnt happen on this occasion. It was subsequently 
established that the next available morning appointment wasnt for a further nine days. 
Earlier appointments were available, but in the afternoon.  
Tesco provided Mr A with a written apology, on his request after he had had to turn the 
engineer away. This related to poor communication and service. 
I note Mr As comments that when he first contacted Tesco in May he made it aware that all 
appointments had to be in the morning. He says he made it clear that any visit by an 
engineer should be first thing. 
I have listened to the calls that took place in May to understand what was discussed. Mr A 
does say can you do mornings, and Tesco replies it can. Hes then told an appointment 
could be arranged for 8am to install the drying machine. I understand the point Mr A is 
making here. But I dont think this conversation reasonably establishes that Tesco must ensure all appointments going forward have to take place first thing in the morning. 
I have read the policy terms and conditions to understand what is expected when an 
engineer appointment is required. It doesnt provide detail around this point. However, wed 
expect Tesco to behave reasonably and try to accommodate a customers requests, 
wherever possible. 
Based on the information provided Tesco did try to accommodate Mr As requests. The 
procedure it follows is to give a time window, which is what happened here - for a morning 
appointment. The engineers didnt attend until the end of that window and unfortunately, due 
to Mr As work commitments he couldnt accommodate the engineers at this time. 
This is unfortunate, but I dont think Tesco behaved unreasonably when trying to arrange 
appointments that best suited Mr A. It didnt respond to his email asking what time the 
Monday appointment was booked for. I have thought about whether the lack of a response 
to this email will have impacted on the time the engineers were able to attend. But I dont 
think it did. Regardless of a response being provided to Mr As email, he had been given the 
next available morning slot. Its unfortunate the engineers couldnt attend earlier, but this 
doesnt mean an earlier appointment was available.     
I sympathise with Mr As predicament, given the drying machine was left in place for around 
22 days. This is longer than the engineer who dropped it off had said was needed. I accept 
this caused disruption and inconvenience to Mr A and his family. But its clear Tescos 
engineers had to attend to establish whether drying was complete prior to removing the 
equipment. I think it acted reasonably when arranging the earliest appointment, suitable for 
Mr A, to be able to do this. 
Mr A has raised concerns relating to the complaint letter and handling of the complaint by 
Tesco. Complaint handling isnt a regulated service, and so not something I can consider. 
But I have considered the relevant points raised in his complaint, and in Tescos response 
that relate to the engineer visits and communication around this. An apology was provided 
via email for the poor service received by Mr A on the day he turned engineers away. I think 
this was fair. 
Having considered all of this, I think Tesco behaved reasonably when dealing with this 
matter, and in trying to arrange suitable times for its engineers to attend. So, I cant fairly ask 
it to do anymore to resolve Mr As complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 January 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman