DRN-1461554
The complaint
Ms J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a loan, and wrongly defaulted 
another loan.
What happened
Ms J had a current account with Barclays. From 2006 this account had an overdraft facility. 
In 2012 she took out a personal loan with Barclays. She says that Barclays only asked her 
about her income and not her expenditure. She complains that this loan was mis-sold, 
because Barclays did not do enough to verify that she could afford it. She provided her bank 
statements from the time, to prove that she could not afford it.
In 2014 Ms Js financial circumstances deteriorated to the point where she could not longer 
make the loan repayments. Barclays closed the loan and withdrew the overdraft facility, and 
consolidated both debts in a new loan. This reduced the amount she had to repay each 
month. Ms J says she mostly made these repayments on time, but on the occasions when 
she couldnt, she was always able to agree an arrangement with Barclays.
In 2018 Ms J lost her job (she has since got a new one). This time she was unable to agree 
a repayment plan, and in 2019 Barclays defaulted her account. She complains that this was 
unnecessary, since she was always willing to make payments towards the loan each month, 
and had been making economies elsewhere in order to do so  including coming to new 
terms with her landlord.
Barclays says it did review Ms Js income and expenditure when she applied for the loan, 
and it had been affordable at the time. It says that her current difficulties are the result of a 
change in her circumstances when she lost her job. It says that it had no choice but to 
default her loan, since she could not afford to make repayments as her expenditure 
exceeded her income and she was struggling to pay basic bills. But as a gesture of good 
will, Barclays wrote off £864 of interest, reducing her outstanding balance to about £1,000.
Ms J brought this complaint to our Service. She also wanted to complain about the sale of 
the overdraft facility, but as that was so long ago it was out of our jurisdiction. (The sale of 
the loan would also have been too long ago for us to consider it, but Barclays consented to 
our Service dealing with that issue anyway.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said Barclays had provided him with proof 
that it had considered Ms Js expenditure as well as her income when shed applied for the 
loan, and so he thought she must have just forgotten that, seven years later. He examined 
her bank statements in 2012 and he found that the account was regularly in credit, and that 
Ms J frequently made payments into her savings account. She had had enough disposable 
income to make the repayments. So he didnt agree that the loan had been unaffordable 
when she took it out.
The investigator considered the history of the loan since then, and found that Barclays had 
entered a number of temporary arrangements to pay since 2014, as well as some payment 
holidays. He thought Barclays had treated her sympathetically and positively during her 
difficulties. But when in March 2019 she had told Barclays that she could not afford the 
reduced payments, Barclays had defaulted the loan instead of agreeing to another 
arrangement. The investigator thought Barclays had been entitled to do that, because she 
had made no payments since August 2018, and she was also in arrears with her rent, utility 
bills and council tax. Barclays had assessed her income and expenditure in 2018 and again 
in 2019, and both times had found that her expenditure exceeded her income. So he 
decided that the bank had done nothing wrong.
Ms J asked for an ombudsmans decision. She argued that the bank should not have 
refused to agree to another arrangement while she knew she could continue to make 
payments. She said her other creditors had worked with her to reduce her debts to them.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have not considered what Ms Js other creditors have done. I am only examining what 
Barclays did, and Barclays was obliged to make its own assessment of Ms Js ability to pay 
her debts. Barclays may have had stricter criteria, and I am not going to compare their 
criteria with those of third parties.
In 2012 there was no obligation on lenders to consider their customers expenditure, only 
their income. This changed when regulations were tightened in 2014, but if (as is Ms Js 
recollection) Barclays had not considered her expenditure when it sold her the loan, that 
would not have been against the rules at the time. I dont think it would be fair if I applied 
those rules to this case retrospectively. So I dont think the loan was mis-sold. I have also 
looked at the bank statements Ms J sent us, and I dont agree that they prove she could not 
afford the loan in 2012.
When the loan and the overdraft were consolidated in a new loan in 2014, that reduced the 
amount of Ms Js total monthly repayments. Since then Barclays has been accommodating 
when she was unable to make payments on time. But in 2018, when Ms J asked to reduce 
her payments to £10 a month (less than a sixth of what was due), Barclays declined to 
accept that offer, and I think it was right to. Ms J had told Barclays that she was in arrears in 
all of her utility bills, her rent and her council tax, and that she was struggling to feed herself. 
In those circumstances, it would not have been right for Barclays to continue to accept 
further payments on the loan, even though Ms J insisted that she wanted to. It was clear that 
she could not afford to, even before Barclays calculated that her disposable income was a 
negative figure.
By then, the arrears that had already accrued would have taken three and a half years for 
Ms J to pay back at £10 a month, and the outstanding balance would probably never have 
been paid back. The Information Commissioners Offices guidelines Principles for the 
Reporting of Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies say that a 
default may be recorded after an account is in arrears by three monthly amounts, and that 
threshold had already been far exceeded by the time Barclays served a default notice for 
£435. So I dont think Barclays was wrong to serve a default notice, and subsequently to 
default the loan account. There was no realistic alternative that would not have exacerbated 
Ms Js already considerable hardship.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2020. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman