DRN-1840432
 
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1995 with a 
store card. Were now looking at this complaint against AXA France IARD (AXA). This is 
because Financial Insurance Company Limited has transferred responsibility for PPI 
complaints like this to AXA. Aside from which company were looking at this against, nothing 
else has changed. 
AXA France IARD (AXA), the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for this sale. So to keep 
things simple in my decision Ill just say AXA when Im referring to the PPI seller or to AXA. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs case.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Its not straightforward trying to decide cases when there are no documents available from 
the time of the sale. Its maybe not surprising that neither party has been able to provide any 
documentation as these events happened over 24 years ago. And whilst I dont doubt that 
Mr Bs testimony represents his honest and best recollections of the events of 1995, I have 
noted that his wider testimony is that he recalls little of the events of the sale, which is not 
surprising considering the time thats passed since then. 
I think its likely AXA made it clear Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it  although I can understand why he cant remember this over 24 years later. I say this 
because based on what we know about these sales, it seems likely that the script the sales 
advisor wouldve used would have prompted them to explain that Mr B had a choice about 
taking the policy out. In any event, due to the time thats passed in this case, I have seen 
insufficient evidence to be able to uphold the complaint on these points. 
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure he got the information he needed so he could decide if it was right for 
him.
Ive not been provided a policy document from the time of the sale. But AXA has given us a 
policy document from soon after the time of sale and Ive also considered other policy 
documents from before and around this time. Having thought carefully about this, I think its most likely that the terms and conditions of these policies are broadly similar to the one 
sold to Mr B.
The information AXA gave Mr B about the PPI probably wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of Mr Bs circumstances at the time it seems that he was 
eligible for the cover this policy could provide and it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover  so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. 
And it appears that Mr B would have benefited from the cover. I say this because Mr B told 
us that whilst his initial sick pay was good, it wasnt guaranteed not to drop significantly after 
100 days, and that he had only modest other means to rely on in that event, or if he lost his 
job, such that he may have had to rely on whatever help his family could have provided him. 
Having the PPI would mean the policy would pay out until the balance at the time of claim 
had been repaid or Mr B had returned to work, and it would pay in addition to any sick pay. 
And this would have reduced the reliance Mr B would have otherwise had on any help his 
family may have been in a position to provide him. So I think the PPI could have been useful 
for him.
So having considered everything, I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr B off taking out the cover.
I know Mr B feels strongly and has put time and effort into his complaint. I realise hell 
be disappointed by this outcome. I know that Mr B will also feel disappointed because a 
separate complaint was upheld for him. I need to say that each case is decided on its 
own merits.
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint and so I make no award against 
AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman