DRN-4417108
The complaint
Mr B complains Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd avoided his motor insurance policy 
(treated it like it never existed) and refused to pay his claim.
Mr B is represented in this complaint by Ms B. For ease, Ill refer to Mr B throughout this 
decision.
What happened
In May 2023, shortly after his motor insurance policy had renewed, Mr B was involved in
a car accident. He made a claim to Accredited, but it declined his claim and told him it was
avoiding his policy back to the renewal date.
Accredited says Mr B failed to disclose his correct occupation at the time his policy renewed. 
It says this information was set out in the renewal documents, which notified Mr B of the 
importance of ensuring the information was correct. And its underwriting criteria meant it 
wouldnt have offered cover if it knew Mr B was unemployed. Accredited considered this a 
qualifying misrepresentation and it avoided his policy, declined his claim and retained the 
policy premium Mr B had paid.
Mr B complained to Accredited. It didnt change its view, so he brought his complaint to this 
service. He told our service the risk for Accredited reduced as he wasnt commuting on 
major roads while unemployed. He wasnt explicitly asked if his job status or other details 
had changed and forgot to say about it, possibly due to a language barrier. Mr B also 
explained the decision by Accredited to avoid his policy is having a significant practical and 
financial impact on him. 
The Investigator looked into matters but didnt think it should be upheld. They thought there 
had been a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation, so, Accredited was entitled 
to take the steps it had.
Mr B doesnt agree with this. He says its unsatisfactory not to be sent a copy of the 
underwriting evidence to show it wouldnt have offered cover to an unemployed person. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the matter was passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I must tell Mr B I think the investigator has reached a fair outcome here. So, 
I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If the consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer must show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Accredited says Mr B failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he didnt tell them he was unemployed at the policy renewal in March 2023. It says when Mr 
B took out his policy, he was asked a number of questions, including his occupation, and it 
used this information, along with the responses to its other questions, to evaluate the risk of 
the policy. When the policy renewed, the information Mr B had provided was detailed in the 
policy documentation he was sent. And its his responsibility to ensure this is correct.
I have read the renewal invitation Mr B was sent in March 2023. This says:
Please review your documents
You need to take time to review your statement of facts, policy schedule and other 
documents which are enclosed with this letter
The statement of facts is a record of what you have told us about your car, any 
named drivers and your driving needs. Please let us know if anything is incorrect.
What we need from you
We rely on the information you give us when deciding whether or not to offer you an 
insurance quotation. You must take reasonable care to provide full and accurate 
answers to the questions we ask when you take out, make changes to and renew 
your policy. If you do not give us full and accurate information, we all your insurers 
may cancel your policy (or policies), refuse to pay any claimor treat your policy as 
though it never existed.
You must tell us about any change in your circumstances (based on the answers 
you gave to our questions) which happens before or during the period of insurance.
[On the Statement of Facts] This is an important document Read it carefully and 
advise us immediately should any of the information be wrong or there is any 
missing Failure to supply accurate and complete answers may mean that your 
policy is invalid and that it does not operate in the event of a claim
Im satisfied the renewal information he received was clear - it was Mr Bs responsibility to 
ensure the details set out in his policy were accurate. Further, Mr B spoke to Accredited on 
the phone to pay for the renewal and a relevant extract is set out below.
Mr B Im not working at the moment, Im not doing too much mile. Only 2,000 mile, 
it was 6,000 before.
AccreditedSo, weve got you down as being a [occupation] so are you not working 
anymore?Mr BI am working just part time, not like full time like before.
When discussing the matter in June 2023, after the claim had been made, Accredited asked 
Mr B when he became unemployed. Mr B answered it was about 8 months ago, which was 
some months prior to the policy start date. When asked the reason for becoming 
unemployed, he said he sold his business and stopped working. Instead, he explained he 
was studying at college and intending to return to work around 2-3 months later, although he 
wasnt sure if this would be back to his previous occupation or a different one as he was 
trying to change. Mr B said hed been supporting himself with universal credit and had no 
other income. 
From this conversation and in his complaint form to this service, it is clear Mr B was 
unemployed at the time he received the renewal invitation and spoke to Accredited in March 
2023. Therefore, the information hed given about not being unemployed  when taking out 
the policy initially and in the call to pay for it - wasnt accurate at the policy renewal. 
Accredited sent this service evidence it wouldnt have accepted the risk had it known Mr B 
was unemployed at the time the policy renewed. I appreciate Mr B wants to see this but 
information like this is commercially sensitive, so Im unable to share it. But I accept cover 
wouldnt have been provided. It follows Mr Bs representation was a qualifying one. 
From everything Ive seen, Im satisfied Mr Bs representation should be treated as a 
deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation. I say this because he told Accredited he 
was employed part time in March 2023 when asked if he wasnt working. However, its clear 
from subsequent information provided by Mr B that he was unemployed at the time.  
In light of the above, Accredited was entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy from the renewal of the 
policy. As this means - in effect - his policy never existed beyond the March 2023 renewal 
date, Accredited doesnt have to deal with Mr Bs claim following the accident. And it has 
retained the premiums Mr B has paid which is justified under CIDRA in these circumstances.
Mr B says he feels the risk dropped as he was no longer commuting on major roads. 
However, its for an insurer to decide if the level of risk presented by someone is acceptable 
to it. And this isnt something which this service would generally interfere with.
I note Mr B says Accredited wouldnt have discovered this if he hadnt made a claim. And he 
forgot to tell Accredited the situation had changed and suggests a language barrier may 
have impacted this. I dont see things the same way. Mr B was obliged to provide accurate 
information in his answers, taking care not to make a misrepresentation. If Mr B was unclear 
about anything he had the opportunity to obtain assistance or contact Accredited to clarify 
matters. Having listened to the calls, Mr B was asked a clear question and he gave a clear 
answer. However, at the time of the call in March 2023, the information he gave wasnt 
correct. So, whilst I appreciate the significant impact the avoidance is having, I dont uphold 
this complaint against Accredited.
I recognise Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Accredited  can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman