DRN-2447722
The complaint
Ms H has complained about Inter Partner Assistance SAs (IPA) handling of a claim on her 
key insurance policy.
Im aware IPA delegates the responsibility for claims handling to the policy administrator, 
which is a different business to IPA. But as the underwriter of the policy, IPA remains 
responsible for all claims decisions and complaints, regardless that the actions complained 
about were supposed to be carried out by the administrator. So, in this decision, I will refer to 
the administrators actions as being IPAs. 
What happened
Ms H lost her car keys. And, in July 2019 she contacted IPA about claiming for the cost of 
replacements. IPA initially told Ms H it couldn't find a record of her as its customer. Ms H 
sent it details of her policy. She also completed a claim form and sent IPA evidence of the 
payments shed already made for the replacement keys. 
IPA didn't respond to Ms Hs claim and she approached our service. In July 2020 IPA 
acknowledged that it had taken too long to deal with Ms Hs claim. It offered her £150 
compensation for the impact of its delays and said it would process her claim. But it didn't do 
so and Ms H again complained to us. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Hs complaint. She said Ms H had sent her claim to 
IPA in 2019, for a sum totalling around £631, but as IPA hadn't sent us everything we asked 
for she couldn't confirm what the actual full claim figure was. Our investigator noted that in 
August 2020 IPA had agreed to settle Ms Hs claim but still hadn't done so. So she said IPA 
should settle Ms Hs claim now and add simple interest to its settlement. She added that, to 
address Ms Hs distress and inconvenience because of the additional delays, IPA should 
increase the compensation figure payable to Ms H to £300. As IPA didn't reply to say it had 
accepted our investigator's recommendations, the complaint's been passed to me to 
determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I'm going to uphold it. 
From reading the file, although IPA hasn't provided us with all the evidence weve asked for, 
its plain that Ms Hs claim journey has been anything but smooth. After she sent her claim to 
IPA it initially told her it couldn't locate her policy details. Ms H gave it what information she 
had but it seems IPA didn't process her claim nor reply to her enquiries.
After she asked us for help IPA identified that it had received Ms Hs claim and said it would 
deal with it. But to date, as far as Im aware, it still hasn't actually settled the claim. And its 
not clear to me why that might be.
I note IPA told us that we should send our correspondence directly to its administrator. And 
while weve tried to do that, as I've said above, as the underwriter of the policy IPA remains 
responsible for replying to issues relating to claims. And as Ms Hs complaint solely refers to 
the delays in the handling of a claim, that is IPAs issue to address, regardless that it might 
ask the administrator to do so on its behalf. And I've seen no justifiable reason for the delays 
in settling Ms Hs claim. So to put things right I think IPA should settle Ms Hs claim for her 
replacement keys. It should confirm the value of that claim when doing so and add simple 
interest to the settlement figure from the date of claim to the date it makes payment at a rate 
of 8% a year.
Also, I understand the ongoing delays have been a source of frustration and inconvenience 
for Ms H, not least because shes been without the funds used to buy the replacement keys. 
And while I've noted IPA has already paid Ms H £150 compensation I don't think that goes 
far enough. So I think it should pay her a further £150 to bring the total compensation figure 
to £300.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA 
to:
Settle Ms Hs claim for her replacement keys. It should confirm the amount of that 
claim and add simple interest to the settlement figure at a rate of 8% a year from the 
date of claim to the date it makes payment1.
Pay Ms H further compensation of £150 to bring the total compensation amount to 
£300. It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Ms H has 
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also add simple interest to 
that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% 
a year. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 March 2021.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman
1 If IPA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Ms H how much its taken off. It should also give Ms H a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.