DRN-3272663
The complaint
Mr M says Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) and ReAssure Limited 
(ReAssure) are responsible for poor handling and service in relation to his personal pension 
plans. For example, amongst other matters, he says he was unable to access information 
about his policies including about performance; he couldnt alter his death benefit 
nominations; and he hadnt been informed about the move of his policies to ReAssure.
What happened
Mr M raised separate complaints about both L&G and ReAssure. I know he feels strongly 
about this, so I thought I should start by establishing some important context for his case 
before proceeding.
During the period covered by Mr Ms complaint, the traditional insurance-based savings, 
pensions, life and with profits policies of L&G were in the process of transferring to 
ReAssure. The proposal had been underway for a few years before being finalised in the 
High Court with an effective legal transfer date of 7 September 2020.
From this point onwards ReAssure assumed responsibility for the policies it took on from 
L&G, including paying future benefits and servicing customers. Mr Ms pension policies were 
covered by the agreement between the firms and thats why ReAssure has been dealing 
with his complaint.
Firms are required to conduct proper due diligence and avoid harm to customers in 
transactions like these. So, the transfer of Mr Ms pensions shouldnt be a concern for him. 
For all intents and purposes, ReAssure has become responsible for the acts and omissions 
of L&G with regard to his policies.
Mr M was approaching 65 when he made contact with L&G in June 2020 about his 
pensions. He struggled to get access to the information he needed. He was informed late on 
that his policies were moving to another firm. And he was trying to get things sorted out from 
overseas. 
Mr M wasnt able to obtain the details he required and so he raised a complaint at the end of 
July 2020. In September 2020 ReAssure responded noting that given the transfer of his 
policies from L&G, it was now responsible for dealing with his case. 
ReAssure acknowledged that L&G had been unable to provide him with a complete set of 
correspondence for his plans. This was because of the latters retention policy. It noted 
letters and statements about his pension had until this time been sent to his solicitors 
address, as instructed. It also provided Mr M with some background about the transfer of 
business from L&G and sought to provide him with reassurance. Mr M wasnt satisfied and 
he brought his complaint to this Service. 
An Investigator considered his case and didnt uphold it. He thought ReAssure couldve 
replied to his contacts more quickly. But he was satisfied it had made reasonable attempts to 
help him gain online access. He noted that correspondence for Mr Ms pensions had been 
sent to a firm of solicitors as required by him and ReAssure couldnt be held responsible for 
any breakdown in communications between him and his legal representative.
Mr M disagreed with the Investigator. Amongst other points, he said:
I again formally request that this case be shared with the court who sanctioned this 
transfer and based on you being unable to resolve my complaint(s) particularly with Legal & 
General (I can only identify [Mr X] as their representative) based on this persons continual 
road blocking
You have ignored and not investigated my complaint in regard the access and handling of 
my policies by Legal and General prior to the English court sanction to transfer the Legal and 
General business to ReAssure. You have continued to do this throughout your investigation 
You have ignored or omitted to investigate the root cause other than to attempt to shift 
blame to [my solicitors] 
You have stated that Legal and General provided documents in relation to these policies 
these documents were sparse and dated at the time of these policies being opened with 
Legal and General, Legal and General has stated that they cannot provide policy data as 
they are not required to retain this by law (it is extraordinary that they can provide artifacts 
from the policies being opened in the 1990's but cannot provide annual copies of statements 
from 2012 -2020
As both parties couldnt agree with the Investigators findings and conclusions, Mr Ms 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh and to provide a decision. This is the final 
stage of this Services involvement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about what happened and gaps in what we know, my 
role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of probabilities, 
whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms complaint has evolved and taken different emphasis during his journey with this 
Service. For example, at one point he was concerned his policies hadnt grown since 
inception. Statements provided to him have shown this wasnt the case. He was concerned 
that he hadnt received any correspondence from L&G for 20 years. But it was established it 
was acting on instructions to send correspondence to his solicitor. And there were ongoing 
issues around gaining access to ReAssures online facility so he could obtain information 
about his policies whenever he wanted. I understand this is now in place.
Mr M asks that this Service provides information to the court which sanctioned the transfer of 
certain business from L&G to ReAssure. As hes been informed, that isnt a role this Service 
would perform. I understand Mr M is contemplating or has already initiated certain legal actions against 
certain parties, not directly related to issues hes complained about to this Service  these 
are matters for him. Id simply add that if he doesnt agree with the outcome Ive arrived at, 
he can reject my decision and proceed through the courts on the complaint points Ive 
addressed as well. But that isnt something I can advise him on.
Mr M says this Service has ignored the complaint points he raised with L&G. Im satisfied the 
evidence and arguments provided have been properly explored. And hes had a full 
explanation of how we deal with complaints where one regulated firm takes on responsibility 
for the policies of another.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that early on when Mr Ms 
pensions were set-up, he instructed L&G to send correspondence about his plans to his firm 
of solicitors. The effective operation of this arrangement wouldve been important, for 
example to have been aware of the performance of the policies and when key milestones 
were approaching such as maturity dates. And to ensure key information that needed 
updating on his plans, like his expression of wish for death benefits, were properly 
communicated to his pension provider.
Mr M has told us the solicitor looking after his business passed-away several years ago. But 
it wouldve been incumbent on him to have updated his pension provider if arrangements 
needed to change at this or indeed any other point. He hasnt provided evidence of any such 
a request being sent.
The information on file shows that correspondence relating to Mr Ms pension plans were 
sent to his solicitor. Although I havent been provided with a complete record of everything 
that was issued by L&G, given what Ive seen spans several years, Ive no reason to think 
the missing documents went elsewhere. And I think its more likely than not the copy 
statements he now seeks wouldve been issued at the appropriate times.
ReAssure hasnt been able to provide Mr M with a complete set of documents it says 
wouldve been sent to his solicitor over the years. It says L&G didnt keep copies on file. 
Regarding the retention of documents. The general principle is that records should be 
retained for as long as is relevant for the purposes for which they are made. 
It seems to me given the long-term nature of pension arrangements, its in the interests of 
firms to keep key details, not least for their own risk management and governance interests. 
I recognise firms must adhere to the requirements of the data protection act, but dont 
believe these are insurmountable. 
Inevitably, there will be an element of judgement by firms here about what to retain or not. I 
think this explains why L&G was able to provide Mr M with certain documents relating to the 
inception of some of his policies, which presumably it thinks are important. But why it wasnt 
able to provide him with copies of some of his annual statements, which it considered more 
routine.
I should make clear, ReAssure has a duty to provide all relevant information and 
documentation requested by this Service. If its shown later to have held back any relevant 
evidence, that would be a serious matter. And Ive no reason to believe this is the case. 
My view here is strengthened by the fact that Mr M made a subject access request (SAR) to 
L&G and in August 2020 it sent copies of all the correspondence it held about his pension 
policies, including what it had disclosed to his solicitors, his agent and his wife. Further, 
ReAssure has passed on all the documents L&G provided to it. I think Mr M has seen what 
is available.I recognise many people can be anxious about pension matters. Mr M was approaching 65. 
He wanted information about his pension plans, which wasnt as straight-forward to obtain as 
it shouldve been. He was informed late in the day about his plans moving to a new provider. 
And Ive no doubt the difficulties he had in communications with both L&G and ReAssure 
added to his uneasiness.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Ms I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.
Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of ReAssures actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
While I agree with the Investigator its handling and communications werent perfect, given 
the circumstances I dont think it got things substantially wrong. 
I appreciate Mr M has been very frustrated about whats happened. But Im not upholding his 
complaint. It follows Im not awarding him any compensation. I understand he now has 
access to his pension policies and will be able to manage these as he requires.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman