DRN-3325806
The complaint
Miss A is unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance Company Limited (Admiral) settled 
her claim.
What happened
In January 2021 Miss As car was unfortunately stolen, so she made a claim on her 
motor insurance policy and it was declared a total loss.
Admiral said the market value for Miss As car was £15,850 and theyd settle the claim 
on this basis. Miss A said this valuation wasnt fair, as based on her own research her 
car was worth £20,000. Admirals position remained the same after Miss A complained. 
They said their valuation was based on the policy terms and two respected motor trade 
guides. So, they didnt think theyd done anything wrong.
An investigator at our service then considered the complaint. She didnt agree with Miss 
A that her car should be valued at £20,000, but she did say the price should be 
increased to £16,330. She reached this conclusion as she said Admiral had acted fairly 
by basing their valuation on two motor trade guides. But they should reasonably have 
offered her the average of the two suggested valuations and used the retail transacted 
prices.
Admiral accepted our investigators opinion, but Miss A didnt. She said it wasnt fair to 
rely on the motor valuation guides in her specific case as the data set was too small. 
She also highlighted her cars optional added features including its heated seats and 
performance exhaust. Lastly, she said the cost of second hand cars had increased due 
to the Covid-19 pandemic and she didnt think the guides took this into account.
On 4 February 2022, I issued a provisional decision. This said I intended on directing 
Admiral to value Miss As car at £20,000 and pay her £200 compensation. 
Miss A accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide any comments.
Admiral requested copies of the valuations Id considered when reaching my provisional 
decision. These were quickly provided, and no further comments or responses were 
received.
As it appears that both sides have accepted my provisional findings, I see no grounds for 
changing them. So, what follows is my provisional findings now made final. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral are required to handle claims promptly and fairly. As Miss As car was stolen 
and declared a total loss, Id reasonably expect them to provide her with its market 
value.
Market value is defined in the policy wording as follows:
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, 
mileage and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was 
purchased. This value is based on research from industry recognised motor 
trade guides.
Assessing the value of a used car isnt an exact science. However, like most insurers 
our service often finds the motor trade guides persuasive. This is because their 
valuations are based on nationwide research and they show likely selling prices at the 
month of loss. The guides also allow for the specifications of most cars to be taken into 
consideration including any extras. This is particularly helpful, as factors such as the 
age and mileage of a car can have a big impact on its value. If a guide price is 
significantly higher or lower than the others, we may think its reasonable to ignore it. In 
some occasions, it may also be appropriate to request bespoke valuations and review 
car adverts to help gain an understanding of the market.
I appreciate Miss A feels it wouldnt be fair to use the motor trade guides for her car, 
as the data set is too small. But Im not convinced there is sufficient grounds to 
support this conclusion. As Ive mentioned above, the guides are based on extensive 
nationwide research. If a guide doesnt have enough data about a specific car, they 
wont provide a valuation.
Ive also carefully considered Miss As comments about the increase in selling prices 
of some second hand cars due to Covid-19. But Im not persuaded this means the 
guides arent a fair and reasonable way of valuing her car. I say this because the 
guides use a range of sources to provide the values including car adverts and 
auction prices. I can also see from the data in these valuations that the guides have 
taken into account prices advertised at the time of loss.
Admiral have already accepted they should reasonably have used the guides 
suggested retail transacted prices when valuing Miss As car. So, I wont comment on 
this point any further, other than to say I agree. Ive also referred to the retail 
transacted prices when consulting the guides.
As Admiral is aware, there are three motor trade guides which our service normally 
reasonably expects an insurer to consider before reaching a valuation. In this case, 
Admiral appear to have only considered two of the three guides and it isnt clear why. 
As the third guide is available, Ive therefore checked it to see what it says. This guide 
values Miss As car at £20,000.
As mentioned above, its also possible to request bespoke valuations, these are 
particularly helpful in cases such as this, where the insured car had optional extra 
features. So, Ive obtained a bespoke valuation for Miss As car from one of the two 
remaining trade guides. This guide also valued Miss As car at £20,000.
So, this means the three motor trade guides valued Miss As car as:
Guide one £20,000.

Guide two £20,000 (bespoke valuation, replacing their earlier valuation of £16,450).Guide three £16,210.
As the third valuation is significantly lower than the rest, and not bespoke, I think it would 
be fair to disregard it as an outlier. So, Im satisfied Admiral should settle Miss As claim 
using a £20,000 market value for her car.
Id also like Miss A to know I carefully reviewed all the adverts she provided, of which 
there were several. While Ive given more weight to the motor trade guides, these 
adverts were helpful and also indicated that Admirals valuation should reasonably be 
increased.
Lastly, Ive considered the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused Miss A. 
Having done so, its clear Miss A went to a lot of trouble to evidence her point of view 
and this matter has caused her considerable upset. So, Im satisfied Admiral should pay 
her £200 compensation to fairly reflect this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do as follows:
Settle Miss As claim on the basis her cars pre-loss market value is £20,000.
Pay Miss A simple interest at 8% on the settlement figure, or the difference 
between any interim payment and the figure Ive proposed, from the date of the 
claim to the date of settlement.
Pay Miss A £200 compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused her.
If Admiral Insurance Company Limited considers theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from the above interest, they should tell Miss A how much 
theyve taken off. They should also give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman