DRN-3806301
The complaint
T complain that Revolut Ltd failed to refund transactions they didnt recognise.
What happened
T are represented by Mr V. As he was the one who was involved with the disputed
transactions, Ill refer to him where its appropriate throughout this complaint.
Mr V had a business account with Revolut. During the operation of his account, Mr V
reported that account details had been changed for some of his payees. Mr V noticed these
changes and reported it to Revolut who were able to prevent the funds from leaving his
account. Mr V experienced other difficulties with both receiving and sending payments.
Sometime later, Mr V believed his Revolut account had been compromised through a hack
on his email account. He believed that whoever had done this was able to use the email to
gain access to his Revolut account and amend payee details (to change the destination of 
the payments). Mr V noticed these changes and was able to change them back to the proper 
account details. There was no loss of funds at this point.
Mr V wanted to close his account but declined to provide identification details that Revolut
had requested. This was because he believed the chat was being monitored by whoever
had accessed his email/Revolut account. Revolut couldnt complete the account closure until
they received these details, so they restricted access to the account and waited for the
information theyd asked Mr V for to be sent to them.
Mr V explained that he had no intention of using his Revolut account and arranged for his
invoices to be paid to a different bank, unfortunately the next payment was sent in error to
the Revolut account. Mr V then sent the additional details Revolut had requested and asked
for his email address to be changed, which Revolut amended.
Revolut also told Mr V to change his password and explained the process for doing so.
Revolut carried out a hard lock out of the account to ensure that no other devices were
logged into it. Once the account was re-opened, the incoming payment was still restricted
and shortly after it was released, several payments were made from the account.
Mr V advised Revolut that his account had been hacked and all the outgoing payments (over
£36,000) werent authorised. Mr V believed that an unauthorised third party had gained
access to his account. Revolut blocked the account and attempted to retrieve the funds.
Revolut were able to retrieve about £6,000 and paid this back into the account.
Mr V sought a refund for these transactions, but Revolut didnt think that the account had
been compromised and they thought that Mr V was negligent by not changing his password 
when hed first notified them about his accounts security. They declined to make a refund to 
T. A complaint was raised and Revolut again looked into what had happened but didnt 
change their position. During the investigation, it was found that two other devices (mobile 
phones) had previously been registered for use with the account. These registrations took 
place some months before the disputed transactions, but Revolut didnt believe they were 
linked to the disputed transactions. 
Evidence from the chat logs showed that Mr V had asked for different phone numbers to be 
updated on his account at various stages due to his work locations. The number used at the 
time of the disputed transactions was previously changed by Mr V some months prior to the 
disputed transactions.
Mr V brought Ts complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review.
It was looked into by one of our investigators who asked both parties for information about
the complaint. Mr V explained what he believed had happened. He was generally unhappy
with how Revoluts security had functioned and believed that an unauthorised third party had
been able to access his account through a compromise of his email address.
Revolut provided details of their chats with Mr V and information concerning the
transactions. Revoluts data indicated that the disputed transactions were carried out by
logging into their internet portal, rather than their app.
After considering the information provided by both parties, our investigator didnt uphold Ts
complaint. She thought there wasnt enough evidence to show someone else had been
responsible for the transactions. She also thought the pattern of transactions wasnt
indicative of usual fraudulent behaviour.
T disagreed with the outcome and wanted a further review of the complaint. Mr V continued
to believe that Revoluts security had been responsible for the loss of his funds and hed
relied on Revoluts confirmation that his account was safe. Mr V believed that further 
attempts to take the remaining funds from his account occurred some time after the original 
disputed transactions. 
Mr V didnt think that the pattern of transactions was relevant to the complaint, he said that
he empties his account shortly after funds were received.
Ts complaint has now been passed to me and I issued a provisional decision where I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The
basic position is that Revolut can hold T liable for the disputed payments if the evidence
suggests that its more likely than not that they made them or authorised them.
Revolut can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove T authorised the
transactions, but Revolut cannot say that the use of the internet banking details conclusively
proves that the payments were authorised.
Unless Revolut can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the
payment or to debit Ts account and any such transaction must be regarded as
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools
issued to T. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to determine
whether theres sufficient evidence to hold T responsible for the disputed transactions or not.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint above in far less detail than it may merit.
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues
here. Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service asa free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive
ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be
able to reach what I think is the right outcome. I will, however, refer to those crucial aspects
which impact the decision Im making.
Essentially, Mr V on behalf of T, believes that Revoluts security was so poor it allowed an
unauthorised third party to gain access to his account to amend payment details, resulting in
the loss of his funds.
So, in order to determine if T are due a refund, I have to be satisfied that theres a plausible
and likely explanation for how someone could obtain the necessary details to allow them to
gain access to Ts account.
Principally that involves knowledge of Ts password, without which its not likely anyone
could access the account. Mr V confirmed that he never gave anyone else the password or
allowed anyone else to use his account. Mr V also believes a compromise of his email
account was, in part, responsible for the breach of his Revolut account.
Accessing the email account linked to the Revolut account wouldnt, on its own, provide the
necessary details to allow someone to login to the Revolut account. It may allow someone to
force a password change on Revoluts account. The process would send an email to the
relevant email address and allow someone to change the password. But, if that was the
case, then Mr V himself wouldnt then have been able to access his own account which
wasnt the case here.
Whilst a compromised email account is a risk for security on other accounts linked to it, it
doesnt answer the question of how someone could obtain the necessary password to be
able to login to the Revolut account.
I appreciate that Mr V was trying not to use his Revolut account prior to the final invoice
being mistakenly paid into it by Ts employers. I can also see on the chat he attempted to
close his account before this happened. But reading through the chat, Revolut required
additional information before they could action such a request and Mr V had decided at that
point he wouldnt supply it because he was concerned about security on his account.
Revoluts position is that they couldnt detect any other access to his account and their
assessment is that an account take-over was unlikely. Once Mr V had notified Revolut of the
change to his outgoing payee details, they restricted his account until he provided details
theyd earlier asked for. At this point, Revolut also confirmed they completed a hard lock
out of all logins to the account and changed the email address. Revolut had previously
advised Mr V to change his password and Mr V asked how this was done. Revolut explained
how to change it and Mr V then asked for his account to be opened.
Some further administration was needed which was completed and Revolut advised that the
funds would be released within a few hours. The incoming payment landed in Ts account
just after midnight and the disputed transactions took place around 10:00 am that morning.
About ten minutes after the final disputed transaction left the account, Mr V notified Revolut
about the unrecognised transactions. So, whoever was using the account was able to
transfer the funds within hours of them being released into the account  which seems to
indicate some knowledge about what was happening with the incoming funds.
Revoluts data doesnt show which device made the transactions because the login details
were used through their internet portal rather than their app. What that means here is that its
not possible to identify if a previously registered device was used to access the account.I understand the frustration that Mr V experienced when he believed his account was being
accessed and persons were amending his payee details, but I havent been able to
determine how someone could have obtained the details necessary to access the account in
the first place. Without that, I cant make a finding that Revolut were responsible for sending
the payments without appropriate authority.
I dont think that Revolut necessarily served T well here, as they notified Revolut on several
occasions about their concerns. Its not apparent that Revolut conducted any form of
investigation for the earlier notifications by T. But when T notified them of the latest issue,
Revolut did lock out all other devices, changed the email and gave T the appropriate advice
to change their password. Revolut dont believe the password was changed prior to the
disputed transactions.
If that was the case, then I find it unusual for an account holder who believes theres an
issue with someone logging into their account - who wouldnt change their password
immediately.
Taking everything into account, I think its implausible to conclude the transactions werent
authorised without stronger evidence to the contrary. That means I currently think its more
likely than not that Mr V on behalf of T carried out these transactions themself  or that
someone else with consent did so.
I invited T and Revolut to give me any more evidence and information they wanted me to
consider before issuing my final decision. 
Mr V on behalf of T disagreed with my provisional decision and in summary said:
He believed that unauthorised access to his funds was through Revoluts app and 
this didnt require either a password or knowledge of the correct email address.
Revoluts failure to secure the account enabled others to access it and to read the 
private chats.
He did change the password after some difficulty, but it didnt make any difference 
because unauthorised third parties didnt require it.
He was told that someone else had access to his phone.
I asked Revolut to comment on the assertion that access to the account could be done 
without either the correct email address or password. Revolut confirmed that both of these 
details are required to access the account. 
I also asked for additional enquiries to be made regarding the beneficiary accounts used to 
receive the disputed transactions. Further information was received which , in summary said:
Payments from Ts account were sent to a number of other accounts.
The funds were utilised in a variety of ways.
Of the three accounts that received funds, all were subsequently closed by their 
respective banks.
One of the accounts had received a report about it but no further details were 
provided.
Two of the accounts had no other reports made about them.
Revolut were asked to comment further about the complaint and in summary said:
The account takeover was fully investigated when it was reported by T.They believed that theyd done everything in their power to protect the account.
They were confident that there was no breach of their systems.
Steps were taken to provide the appropriate advice to secure the use of the account.
The circumstances of the complaint remain one of a kind.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank both parties for their patience while Ive investigated the complaint. 
Additional enquiries have been carried out to try and establish the best possible evidence 
upon which to make a fair and reasonable decision about Ts complaint. 
The complaint is finely balanced and there are some aspects to it that indicate unusual 
activity, such as repeated concerns about unauthorised access to the account and the use of 
other accounts to receive funds which were soon utilised. But here I have to make my 
decision based on the available evidence and where theres a dispute about what happened, 
and the evidence is incomplete or contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of 
the available evidence.
Mr V believed their account could be accessed without the email address or password. I 
asked Revolut about this as its a fundamental part to the complaint. If the account could be 
accessed in such a way then it would be very difficult for Revolut to show that it was T who 
authorised these payments because anyone could just open up the account. Revolut 
confirmed that both the login details (email address and password) are required to gain 
access to the account. Id be surprised if this wasnt the case and Mr Vs belief isnt 
supported by any specific evidence to reflect that this was what happened in the individual 
circumstances here. So, whilst Ive considered this point made by Mr V, I dont think its 
plausible that someone could access Ts Revolut account without the necessary login 
credentials.
Mr V reported that he was told someone else had access to his phone by a Revolut 
employee and Ive specifically asked them about this. Revolut told me the comment wasnt 
backed up by their investigation and believe it was a poorly phrased assumption from the 
call handler at the time they were still gathering information about the incident. Revoluts 
investigation didnt detect any other party accessing the chat and couldnt find any evidence 
of third-party interference and they described the circumstances of this complaint as one of 
a kind. What that means for my considerations here is that there is no other evidence of 
unauthorised access to the account that Ive been able to consider. 
Revolut supplied details of the various accounts that were set up to receive payments from 
Ts accounts. Mr V didnt recognise them and believes they were set up by unknown third 
parties to divert his funds. Ive considered how these details could have been changed and 
in the case of the disputed transactions linked to this complaint, how they could have been 
authorised. None of these details could have been changed without access to the account 
which required the password and email address to login. I accept that Mr V had a situation 
some time before these events that resulted in the changing of an account, but this was 
linked to a separate scam, and it was Mr V in that instance who made the changes (although 
it didnt result in any loss).
As Ive previously mentioned, the issue here is how anyone other than Mr V could have 
known the password, without which the account couldnt be used, or payments authorised. I 
also think its relevant that Revolut changed the email address shortly (less than a day) before the payments left the account. Prior to the clearance of the payment into the account, 
Revolut confirmed they locked out any device using the account  that means that only new 
logins would be successful, so to log back in, the new email address and Mr Vs password 
would have been required. Mr V confirmed he eventually changed his password (although 
Revolut dont believe that happened prior to the disputed transactions). 
Revolut believed that Mr V was negligent by not changing his password when he believed 
his account had already been compromised. Ive thought about this and whilst I dont think 
theres a case that Mr V was (grossly) negligent, I do think it unusual that Mr V didnt 
immediately change the password on the account when he believed his account security 
was at risk. But, as Ive mentioned already, both the correct (new) email address and 
password would have been required and theres no evidence to show how someone could 
have obtained those details. 
Mr V later reported to Revolut that further attempts to empty his account had been made and 
the remaining balance sent to one of the accounts that had earlier received his funds. 
Revolut couldnt establish what happened to this transaction as no funds were actually sent, 
so it remains unclear how the account was accessed, but it remains that access to the 
account would have required the new email account and the password.
The use of different accounts to send the funds to remains an aspect of the complaint thats 
not fully explained. The funds were utilised once they were received from Ts account. This 
is often seen in fraudulent attempts to steal money from other bank accounts. Whilst this part 
of the complaint can be interpreted as unusual, it remains that the security credentials were 
still required to access the account in the first place.  
I havent seen any evidence or a plausible version of events that would give me reason to 
think that the password was obtained by unauthorised third parties or that the new email 
address was compromised. Having considered the additional points raised by Mr V, and 
whilst Im sure hell disagree with me, I see no reason to reach a different conclusion. So, 
this final decision confirms the findings set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman