DRN-1692970
 
The complaint
 Mrs P says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
 policy.  
What happened
Mrs P bought the policy in 1996 in connection with a store card. 
Our adjudicator initially recommended the complaint should be upheld. Mrs P has a medical 
condition which meant she wouldn't have been covered by the policy if she'd had to take 
time off work in connection with that condition. But having considered additional information 
about Mrs P's condition, the adjudicator then decided the complaint shouldn't be upheld. Mrs 
P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities - that is, what I think is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ps complaint because:
I think AXA made her aware the PPI was optional and she chose to take it out. I say 
this because Mrs P's store card application form was completed to show that she 
wanted the cover. 
Mrs P may consider she didnt need the PPI because she was entitled to sick pay 
from her employer. She's also said that her partner and family would've helped her if 
things went wrong. But AXA didnt recommend the policy to Mrs P so it didnt have to 
check if she needed it or whether it was suitable for her. As Mrs P chose to take the 
PPI, I think she wanted to protect her repayments against illness and unemployment.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Mrs P has told us she had a medical condition when she bought the 
policy. So she wouldn't have been covered by the PPI if she'd had to take time off 
work in connection with that condition. I think it's unlikely AXA made that clear to Mrs 
P when the policy was sold. But Mrs P has also told us that she's never had to take 
time off work because of her condition, and that it is managed with medication. So 
even if AXA had made Mrs P aware of the policy exclusion that affected her, on 
balance I don't think this would've changed her decision to buy the PPI. That's 
because I think she would've considered the likelihood of having to take time off work 
in connection with her condition to be relatively low. The policy was also competitively priced and had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI wouldve stopped her buying it. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman