DRN-1356237
 
The complaint
Ms M complains that Santander UK Plc blocked her account. Shes also unhappy that 
Santander hasnt explained why. And says Santander took too long to release the funds in 
the account to her. She says this caused her business inconvenience and financial loss. She 
wants Santander to pay her compensation.
 What happened
Ms M had personal and business accounts with Santander.
This decision will focus on Ms Ms business account. Ms Ms complaint about her personal 
accounts will be addressed separately in another decision.
In early 2018, Ms M was involved in a police investigation. 
In February 2018, Santander placed a block on Ms Ms account. This meant she couldnt 
access the money in the account. On 3 August 2018, Santander removed the blocks and it 
allowed Ms M to withdraw the balance of the account. Santander then closed the account. 
Ms M said the blocks on her accounts made life very difficult for her to run her business. 
Shes said shes lost more than £20,000 worth of business. And she had to sell items used 
for her business, at a loss, because she couldnt run her business. Shes also said that she 
couldnt pay her staff wages she employed as carers.
Ms M complained to Santander about not being able to access her account. Santander said 
it hadnt done anything wrong when it blocked Ms Ms account. And it had done so to comply 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. Unhappy with this response, Ms M brought her 
complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ms complaint. She said Santander hadnt done 
anything wrong when it blocked Ms Ms account. However, she said Santander shouldve 
released Ms Ms funds quicker than it did. So, she said Santander should pay Ms M interest 
for loss of use of her funds as she felt Ms M wouldve been able to make use of the money 
had it been released to her sooner. 
Santander agreed. Ms M didnt. She said the amount of compensation offered doesnt reflect 
the financial losses, stress and upset shes been caused. And that Santander should have 
removed the blocks in May 2018. She says this is when the police told her they had informed 
Santander it was no longer interested in her account. So Santander had no reason not to 
allow her access to operate her account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
 What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why.
Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which includes the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017 and the Financial Conduct Authoritys financial crime requirements, place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses to verify a customers identity, establish the 
purpose and nature of the business relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. Santander has 
said that Ms Ms account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Ms M says she has no idea why Santander blocked her accounts and it came as a complete 
shock to her. She says the blocks meant she couldnt pay staff wages and she lost business.
Whilst I understand Ms Ms strength of feeling, as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation to comply with various laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Santander relied upon, Im satisfied that Santander were complying with its legal 
and regulatory obligations when it blocked Ms Ms account. So, I cant say it has done 
anything wrong. The terms and conditions of Ms Ms account also permit Santander to block 
an account. Having considered those terms, Im satisfied Santander acted in line with them. 
I know Ms M wants Santander to explain the reason it blocked her account. And I can 
understand Ms Ms frustration that she hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But as 
the investigator has explained, Santander is under no obligation to provide this information to 
her, as much as shed like to know. So, I cant say Santander has done anything wrong by 
not providing this information to her. However, I can see that Santander wrote to Ms M and 
told her it was complying with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked her 
account. I also note that Ms M was in contact with the police at the time about access to her 
accounts. So, all in all, I think its more likely than not Ms M had some understanding of why 
Santander blocked her account. 
release of funds
Ms M says Santander took too long to allow her access to her accounts. Shes argued that 
Santander was told by the police in May 2018 that no action was being taken by them 
against her. So, she says it shouldve acted on that information and removed the blocks on 
her account. Santander accepts it should have removed the blocks from Ms Ms accounts 
earlier than it did. 
I acknowledge what Ms M says about the police interest in her coming to an end in 
May 2018. But Ive also looked at the other evidence of notes of the banks records and 
enquiries it was making after this time regarding her account. And my review of this evidence 
points to Santander following its processes properly. So even though Ms M says the police 
no longer had an interest in her in May 2018, I cant say it was unfair for Santander not to 
remove the blocks in May 2018. Santander was still completing its own review of Ms Ms 
account, which under the terms and conditions it was entitled to do. And was required to do 
to meet its legal and regulatory obligations. 
However, Santander has confirmed it finished everything it needed to do by 8 June 2018. 
So, I think Santander should have removed the blocks from Ms Ms accounts at this time. 
But it didnt do so until 3 August 2018  nearly two months later. And Santander hasnt 
offered any explanation for this delay. So I think Ms M is entitled to some compensation.I can see that the delay has had an impact on Ms M. Her bank account was blocked for two 
months longer than it shouldve been. And during this time Ms M didnt have access to the 
money in the account. 
Weve asked Ms M to provide us with more information about how the delay impacted her. 
And despite being asked to do so since June 2019 Ms M hasnt provided any evidence to 
support any losses suffered by her business as a result of the delay such as confirmed 
contracts of employment or receipts for the sale of business items. So Im not satisfied 
Ms Ms business suffered any financial loss as a result of the delay in removing the block 
from her account. 
However, given what Ms M has said about her circumstances, Im satisfied that Ms M was 
deprived of the funds in her account for longer than necessary. As Im not able to quantify 
this impact, I think its fair and reasonable to apply the rate of interest this service normally 
applies to such cases  8% per year simple.
 Putting things right
To put things right Santander UK Plc should pay Ms M 8% interest per year simple on the 
closing balance of Ms Ms account of £6,584.14 from 8 June 2018 until 3 August 2018. 
 My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman