DRN-3218686
The complaint
Mr O complains that Advantage Finance disposed of a car which hed acquired under a 
finance agreement.
What happened
In October 2019 Mr O was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement 
with Advantage.
In March 2020 Mr O was involved in an accident. He reported the accident to his insurance 
company. The car was taken to a garage to be repaired.
Mr O contacted Advantage and told it about the accident.  He said he was no longer making 
an insurance claim and the garage and asked him to pay storage fees. Advantage referred 
Mr O back to his insurance company.
In May 2020 Advantage contacted the garage. It said it would cost around £2000 to repair 
the car, plus storage fees.
Advantage contacted Mr O and gave him time to collect the car. It said if he didnt collect the 
car, it would dispose of it.
Mr O told Advantage he wouldnt be collecting the car. Advantage contacted the garage, 
who advised that the car was in bad condition. The garage offered advantage £500 to 
salvage the car and said it would offset the storage fees. Advantage accepted the offer and 
applied £500 to Mr Os account.
Mr O complained to Advantage. He said the car should have been returned to him and that 
Advantage had sold it unfairly.
In response, Advantage said it had written to Mr O advising him that if the car wasnt 
collected within 21 days, it would dispose of it. It said it had received no response from Mr O 
and that because of the level of damage to the car and the amount of storage fees, it had 
taken the decision to sell the car.
Mr O remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said Advantage had given Mr O enough 
opportunities to contact the garage and reach an agreement over repairs and storage fees, 
or collect the car. He also said Advantage had made it clear to Mr O that it would dispose of 
the car if he didnt collect it. The investigator said that Advantage had offered to reduce Mr 
Os outstanding balance by £1500, which he thought was a fair and reasonable offer.
Mr O didnt agree. He said that if he accepted the offer from Advantage, then he would be 
agreeing to the car being taken away from him without good reason.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that the car is Mr Os responsibility. So, in 
circumstances where the car has been in an accident and has been taken to a garage, Mr O 
is responsible for the costs of repair and storage, in the absence of his insurance company 
meeting these costs.
Ive reviewed the calls and letters. Im satisfied that Advantage made it clear to Mr O that he 
was responsible for these costs, and correctly referred him to his insurance company.
When it became clear that Mr O wasnt proceeding with an insurance claim, I can see that 
Advantage gave him a period of time to reach an agreement with the garage or collect the 
car. I cant see that Mr O did either of these things. In the circumstances, I dont think 
Advantage acted unfairly in advising Mr O that it would dispose of the car if he didnt collect 
it.
Because the storage costs were increasing day by day, I think it was reasonable for 
Advantage to limit these by reaching an agreement with the garage to dispose of the car. Im 
satisfied that Mr O was kept fully advised throughout this process and was given ample 
opportunity to collect the car if hed wanted to.
I appreciate that Mr O is disappointed that the car was sold for less than he paid for it. Based 
on what Ive seen, the damage to the car was substantial and its likely that the costs of 
repair and the storage costs would have exceeded the value of the car. There was no 
obligation on Advantage to pay for the repairs and storage costs just because Mr O couldnt 
afford to.
I can see that Mr O continued to make his monthly payments. Advantage has recognised 
this and has offered to reduce Mr Os outstanding balance by £1500. I think the offer is fair. 
I appreciate that Mr O is disappointed that hes been left without a car but for the reasons 
Ive explained, I dont think Advantage has done anything wrong.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman