DRN-2253360
The complaint
Ms T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has unfairly registered a default as she couldnt 
pay her credit card debt when her current account was closed.
What happened
Ms T had a current account and a credit card account with Barclays. It decided in December 
2018 to close her current account and it registered a marker at CIFAS. In May 2020, after 
Ms T made a separate complaint about that, it said it would remove the marker as it had 
been applied in error. This complaint is about the way her credit card account was dealt with. 
Ms T says she contacted a branch and the credit card team about how to make payments in 
a different way and didnt get any help. She said she didnt receive letters from Barclays 
about the credit card and repaid the debt after she was able to open an account elsewhere 
in June 2019. And initially she had some difficulties making payments from that account.   
Ms T says she is now not able to obtain a mortgage due to the default and she doesnt think 
Barclays has dealt with her fairly.
Barclays said it wouldnt be removing the default. It said that there were no payments made 
to the account after December 2018 and that as arrears accrued a default was made on 30 
July 2019. Ms T could have made payments in a different way and this was her 
responsibility. There had been no contact from Ms T until after the default was applied. And 
it had tried to contact her by text message, letter and phone calls. As Ms T had a bank 
account in June 2019 she could have paid off the arrears through that account before the 
default was applied. The debt was paid off in September 2019 and is marked as settled.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She appreciated that due to 
the difficulties at the time Ms Ts recall of what happened was limited. And she had a car 
accident during this period which only added to her stress. Ms T also told us that she had 
mental health issues at the time compounded by what had happened. Through no fault of 
her own Ms T had shown she was no longer able to access phone records which she says 
would have shown that she had tried to contact Barclays. She had been able to use her 
mothers account to receive her salary from December 2019 but had missed out she says on 
her pay in January 2019.
Our investigator had seen evidence from Barclays that it had written to Ms T at the correct 
address it had for her. And on 11 June 2019 it sent a default notice. There were other means 
for her to pay this debt and there was no record of any contact with Barclays and specifically 
the credit card section about this debt until it had appointed a debt collection agency. 
Barclays had said it had a duty to report information correctly to credit reference agencies 
and this was fair and reasonable.
Ms T didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt the difficulties for Ms T of not having a current account and that this was a 
distressing time and one shed rather not relive. And her frustration at being later told that 
Barclays had changed its decision about the fraud marker. Ms T has shown she tried to 
open an account at other high street banks but was turned down. And that from February 
2019 she received her pay into her mothers account. I am unclear when and if she received 
her pay for January 2019 and that would be a matter between her and her employer. But I 
fully appreciate her financial position was also affected by her inability to work for a period 
after an accident adding to her distress.
The credit card account was over the limit on her January 2019 statement and Ms T had 
made no attempt to use it after December 2018. It seems from her bank statements that 
shed been making monthly bill payments manually. And there was no payment in December 
2018 - the month during which her bank account had been closed by Barclays. There is no 
record of any contact with Barclays through a branch or through the credit card section about 
making payments. And while I appreciate the difficulties Ms T was having there wasnt a 
reasonable basis for her to think that this was being dealt with. There is no record she 
contacted it for help either about the impact of the fraud marker or to make alternative 
payment arrangements. Barclays has shown that it followed its standard process in dealing 
with arrears and had made attempts to contact Ms T. The default was registered after over 
six months of missed payments.
Its clear that by September 2019 Ms T was in a better financial position as she was able to 
settle this borrowing. But unfortunately, that was after the default was registered. I need to 
decide whether Barclays should have done anything differently. There is no record Ms T had 
told it of her specific issues with finding a means of payment for this debt. And I think from 
what it says that had she done so it would have offered an alternative method. To the extent 
the fraud marker resulted in financial difficulties there is no evidence she brought this to 
Barclays attention either. But there were signs of her having wider financial difficulties. Ive 
taken into account what shes said but Im afraid I dont find that Barclays has made a 
mistake or acted unreasonably in the way it has dealt with the credit card debt.
I know Ms T will be very disappointed when I say that I dont have a basis to require 
Barclays to remove the default marker. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman