DRN-2079455
The complaint
Mr W complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) unfairly cancelled his car insurance policy, 
due to missed payments. He says payments were made and that hes provided proof.
What happened
Mr W had car insurance with UKI. They say his payments in April and May 2019 werent 
made. UKI renewed Mr Ws policy in June 2019, although they said this was done in error as 
they wouldnt usually renew a policy if its in arrears.
UKI said the payments in June and July 2019, for the renewed policy, werent made either, 
so they wrote to him to say they were cancelling his policy.
Mr W said he didnt receive the cancellation notice, and this led to him driving without 
insurance. He said UKI shouldve sent him a text or email for something so important.
Mr W also said hes having to pay much more for insurance following the cancellation of his 
UKI policy. Mr W would like UKI to cover the extra hes having to pay, stop chasing him for 
money they believe he owes, and to pay him a substantial amount of compensation.
As part of Mr Ws complaint, UKI agreed to waive the debt relating to the April and May 2019 
payments. But they said he still owed £211.73 for the time on cover of the renewed policy.
Mr W wasnt happy with that, so brought his complaint to our service for an independent 
review.
An investigator here looked into Mr Ws concerns, and felt UKI had shown the payments 
hadnt been made. Mr W provided additional evidence to show why he felt he was correct, 
and that he had made his payments. This was in the form of bank statements and a letter 
from his bank.
That evidence was shared with UKI so they could investigate further. UKI passed it on to
Mr Ws bank to ask if it was genuine. Mr Ws bank said it was not.
In view of this the investigator told Mr W he could not uphold his complaint. Mr W wasnt 
happy with that, so he asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator, for largely the same reasons.
Starting with the missed payments in April and May 2019, UKI have provided their system 
records for Mr Ws policy. The April 2019 request for payment shows as having been 
rejected by Mr Ws bank. While the May 2019 payment wasnt taken due to the policy being 
lapsed.
Mr W has provided counter evidence in the form of bank statements, and a letter from his 
bank. But Mr Ws bank says the statements have been altered and dont match their records. 
Theyve also said the letter is false, so Im not going to take what Mr W has provided here 
into account. I dont find evidence to be persuasive where it isnt genuine.
UKI say theyve waived the April and May 2019 payments, so theyll no longer be asking
Mr W to make them. That means he didnt pay the full premium for that policy, and has 
effectively had some of the cover for free. I think its generous of UKI to have allowed this in 
the circumstances.
Likewise, UKI have provided evidence showing the June and July 2019 payment requests 
were rejected by Mr Ws bank. Because I of that, I consider they were entitled to cancel 
Mr Ws policy in line with the terms and conditions, which state:
11. If you miss a payment
If we have been unable to collect your premium on the date it is due, we
will write to you in order to give you the opportunity to make the payment.
If the premium remains unpaid by the date we set out in our letter, we will
give you 14 days notice that we will cancel your policy, and inform you in
writing when this cancellation has taken place.
If you have made a claim, or one has been made against you before that
date, then the balance of the years premium will become payable.
UKIs records show they wrote to Mr W about the rejected payments. And as payment still 
wasnt made, they wrote again on 24 July 2019  to say his policy would be cancelled with 
effect from 7 August 2019. So, I consider UKI to have followed the terms and conditions in 
their cancellation of the policy.
I dont know whether UKI sent the confirmation of cancellation letter, but I dont think that 
reverses the cancellation. Rather, it appears to be a helpful reminder that cover is no longer 
in place. And Ive not seen anything to make me think Mr W was adversely affected by any 
possible omission here. Whilst he may have driven uninsured for a few days I can see the 
cancellation was confirmed over the phone on 13 August 2019.
I understand Mr Ws point, that it would have been helpful for UKI to send him a text or an 
email about the cancellation. But UKI arent required to do that, and they wrote to him with 
14 days notice as per the policy terms.
As cover was provided to Mr W for that period, I dont think its unfair for UKI to ask him to 
pay the £211.73 he owes for it.
In light of my findings, I cant say UKI is at fault for Mr W having to pay greater premiums to 
other insurers. I know thats something which happens if youve had a policy cancelled due 
to non-payment of premiums. I appreciate that isnt welcome, but UKI was entitled to cancel 
Mr Ws policy and so I cant ask them to reimburse him for any of the losses he feels hes 
incurred. Nor can I require them to pay him compensation for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, it is my final decision that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman