DRN-3054373
The complaint
Mr G complains about delays by National Savings and Investments (NS&I) when setting up 
a new Junior ISA (JISA) for Miss G. 
What happened
On 20 April 2020 Mr G initiated a JISA transfer from another business (A). NS&I says Mr G 
used its online system to upload identification that was accepted on 30 April 2020. NS&I 
says it sent Mr G the transfer authority form to sign on 4 May 2020. Mr G signed the transfer 
authority form on 11 May 2020 and it was received by NS&I a short time later. 
On 25 May 2020 NS&I wrote to Mr G and confirmed it had requested the JISA funds from A 
and that they should be received within 15 working days. 
Mr G says A told him the funds were transferred to NS&I around 8 June 2020. NS&I says it 
received a cheque from A with the JISA funds on 16 June 2020. NS&I opened Miss Gs JISA 
on 28 June 2020. NS&I backdated the interest to 16 June 2020, the date it received Miss Gs 
JISA funds from A. 
Mr G complained but NS&I didnt agree errors had been made. Mr G referred Miss Gs 
complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator initially 
upheld Miss Gs complaint but after NS&I provided more information changed his view. The 
investigator later said they thought NS&I had dealt with Miss Gs complaint fairly so didnt 
ask it to do anything else. Mr G asked to appeal, so Miss Gs complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the timeline of Miss Gs complaint to see if there were any clear and avoidable 
delays caused by NS&I. I appreciate the transfer took longer than Mr G expected and that 
there were some delays. 
Mr G signed the JISA transfer form on 11 May 2020 and sent it back to NS&I. Once the form 
was received it was processed by NS&I and the JISA funds were requested from the original 
provider. I havent seen anything that shows NS&I caused unreasonable delays when 
processing the transfer request form. 
Mr G has told us A sent the funds to NS&I by transfer. But NS&I said the funds were 
received in a cheque  adding further time to the process. I asked our investigator to contact 
A directly to clear this point up. A confirmed that the funds for Miss Gs JISA werent sent by 
a transfer, they were sent by cheque. And NS&I has provided systems evidence to show the 
cheque funds were received on 16 June 2020. Whilst the account wasnt set up until 28 June 
2020, NS&I backdated interest to the date it received Miss Gs JISA funds. I havent found 
NS&I delayed the process or caused Miss G to lose out on interest. 
I appreciate there was some confusion in this case and that Mr G wasnt always given clear 
information when he contacted both businesses about what was happening. But I think its 
reasonable to note delays caused by the pandemic impacted both businesses as well as the 
post service. I dont doubt Mr G found the process of transferring Miss Gs JISA frustrating, 
but I havent found anything that shows NS&I caused unreasonable or unavoidable delays in 
this case. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr G, but Im satisfied NS&I dealt with Miss Gs complaint fairly. 
As a result, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman