DRN-4516549
The complaint
Mrs J complaint about the way Equiniti Financial Services Limited (EFS) has dealt with her 
request to sell shares. She says she has incurred incorrect charges and treated unfairly in 
the say the sale of the shares has been handled.
What happened
On 19 October 2022, Mrs J requested a sale of shares through an online service. Shortly 
after this EFS requested relevant documentation, including the valid share certificates to 
complete the transaction.
On 1 November 2022, Mrs J raised concerns about how the share sale was being handled. 
She was unhappy that she was being asked to send documents in the post when she was 
expecting to complete the transaction digitally (but she did send scanned documents). She 
was also unhappy about a fee for the "reissue" of a dividend payment. 
On 16 November 2022, EFS informed Mrs J that the shares would be repurchased as the 
requested documents had not been received. Mrs J responded to this as she felt the tone 
was threatening. 
EFS maintained that it couldnt accept share certificates via email and an indemnity form 
would be needed if she couldnt provide the original share certificates. Mrs J said she had 
now sent the original certificates, so no indemnity is needed. 
On 9 December 2023 EFS provided its final response to the complaint. In summary it said:
To complete the sale of the shares, it required documents sent by post with a wet 
signature and is unable to accept scanned documents. 
It acknowledged that documents had been sent in the post now, but it had yet to 
process these and would be in contact if there are any issues.  
Regarding Mrs Js comments about the tone and content of the chaser 
correspondence, it said this was a standard letter sent to inform her of the possible 
consequences should it not receive post trade documents. It said it wasnt its 
intention to cause offence and apologised.
The share registrar would respond to the concerns about the fee linked to the re-
issue of dividends. 
EFS reviewed the documents sent in the post but told Mrs J it couldnt proceed with the sale 
as she hadnt provided valid share certificates. She responded to say this was the only 
certificates she held. Mrs J raised further concerns about the handling of the transaction 
including that she had been overcharged a dealing fee. She maintained the information she 
had received indicates there was no requirement issue a paper certificate if the shares in the 
trading account are held in uncertificated form. And as far as she was aware EFS held her 
shares in an electronic form. Mrs J continued to dispute the need for her to provide payment 
for an indemnity for replacement shares certificates. 
EFS provided a further complaint response to Mrs J on 1 February 2023. In summary it said:  
Mrs J instructed EFS to sell her certificated shares, this is an entirely separate entity 
to Equiniti Registrars who administer the share register for the company the shares 
are held in.
She agreed when she placed the trade to EFSs terms and conditions - which 
included the payment of its fees and that she would provide a valid share certificate 
along with a completed crest transfer form.
As she was unable to provide a valid share certificate, arrangements were made for 
an Express Letter of Indemnity to replace the share certificate  to enable EFS to 
process the trade. The registrar charges a fee for this service, but it agreed to refund 
this fee as a gesture of goodwill. 
EFS acts as an execution only dealing service and has placed the instruction into the 
market to sell the shares. Consequently, it must deliver the shares to sell to the 
market. When the require documents werent supplied, it still needed to purchase 
sufficient shares at the prevailing market price. In line with its terms, it passes on any 
costs it incurs of doing this to Mrs J. It will also charge her commission and make a 
late settlement charge. 
Commission for certificated charges, differs to that Mrs J has referred to  it said she 
had been charged correctly. 
On 8 February 2023, EFS wrote to Mrs J explaining as it didnt receive the necessary 
documentation for the sale it had repurchased the shares. It said this resulted in Mrs J 
needing to make a payment of £139.25 to cover the price difference and associated 
charges. 
After this the complaint was referred to this service for an independent review. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint. He didnt think it should be upheld. In summary he 
said:
EFS has correctly followed Mrs Js sell instruction. It needed to deliver the shares to 
the market when she failed to provide the relevant documents. EFS can pass any 
costs it incurred to do this and charge commission.
While Mrs J says EFS have applied incorrect commission charges, the charges she 
has highlighted relate to shares held electronically. EFS charged her correctly as a
certificated shareholder. 
He didnt see evidence share certificates could be sent by email and rather they 
needed to be sent by post, and sight of a wet signature was required for the crest 
form. 
He didnt find that EFSs chaser letters were threatening. 
Mrs J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She provided 
further submissions. In summary she said: 
She signed up to a service with Equiniti called Shareview and was told she could 
manage all aspects of her shareholding online. 
The terms and condition she saw stated her shares will be registered and held in the 
name of a nominee company.
Shareview had two commission rates and as her agent EFS should have acted in her 
best interest by offering the cheapest commission, but it did not and provided the 
highest commission rate.
The Shareview portfolio listed her shares as being held online and she wasnt 
informed that they werent. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Firstly, Id like to clarify that I can only consider the actions of EFS in respect of the sale of 
the shares in its capacity as an execution only broker. There is another entity that it linked to 
the situation and that is the role of the registrar for Mrs Js shares. The registrar in this 
situation is also part of the Equiniti group. The role of a registrar is to act for a company in 
maintaining its register of shareholders. Since acting as a registrar isnt a regulated activity it 
follows that Im not able to consider the actions of the registrar  this includes the payment of 
dividends and sending of share certificates.  I acknowledge it can be difficult to understand
what role is being carried out when there are two entities of the same group carrying out 
different activities on Mrs Js behalf. But as explained, I will only be looking at the actions of 
EFS in selling of the shares. 
From her submissions, it appears Mrs Js understanding of her account with EFS is that she 
could sell her shares online without needing to provide documents through the post. But EFS 
position is that as she held certificated (and not electronic) shares she was required to 
provide her physical certificates in order to complete the trade. As Mrs J wasnt able to 
comply with EFSs requests the trade has been reversed. In order to uphold the complaint, I 
would need to find that EFS has made errors in how it completed the transaction. 
Ive considered whether there is evidence that Mrs Js shares were held electronically, so 
could be traded without needing share certificates to be sent in the post. The evidence Ive 
seen doesnt support this, and rather it seems that she held the shares in a certificated 
format. It appears Mrs J did sign up for an online service. EFS has clarified that she 
registered to join the Shareview Portfolio Service. This is an online service to access and 
manage detailed information about your shareholdings. 
Ive reviewed the nature of this service and can see it does allow you to manage holdings 
online even when the shares are held in a certificated format. And where shares are held in 
a company that uses Equiniti as its registrar, it is possible for a shareholder to give sale 
instructions online. But crucially, when seeking to sell shares that are held in a certificated 
format, there was still a requirement to send the share certificates to EFS even when the 
instruction was given online. From the available evidence, this is what appears to have 
happened with Mrs Js October 2022 transaction. It does seem it was possible for Mrs J to 
transfer her shares from certificated format to be held electronically as part of the Shareview 
service, but I havent seen that she did this. 
I havent found that EFS has treated Mrs J unfairly or unreasonably in requesting the original 
share certificates. I also do not find that it has charged her incorrectly as she was charged 
the rate for shares held in certificated format. The fees Mrs J has highlighted are the rates 
for when shares are held electronically in a nominee account. As Ive explained above, the 
evidence doesnt support her shares were held in this way. This means she wont be eligible 
for the lower commission rate she has suggested she should have been charged at. 
I also havent found that EFS acted incorrectly when it re-purchased the shares as the sale 
requirements werent fulfilled by Mrs J. It provided her with an option to obtain an indemnity 
that would allow the transaction to complete (and offered to refund the charge for this). But 
the evidence doesnt show that Mrs J wanted to do take his option. So, in order to complete 
its obligations to the market it needed to re-purchase the shares. I dont find it has acted 
unfairly by passing the cost of this on to Mrs J. Ive reviewed the letter EFS sent to Mrs J 
requesting information from her to allow the trade to settle. In my view, the tone was not 
threatening, but was simply explaining the process and consequences if the required 
documentation was not received.
I appreciate Mrs J will be disappointed with this outcome, but I havent found EFS to be at 
fault in how it handled the transaction. My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2024.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman