DRN-1501405
The complaint
W, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to provide it with access 
to the mobile banking service and could not resolve this.
What happened
The director of W contacted Barclays when he had problems accessing its bank account. 
And it replaced his debit card which had a faulty chip. But despite the director speaking to a 
number of members of staff he was unable to log in to the account using the mobile banking 
app. When W complained Barclays paid it £150 in compensation.
Our investigator did not recommend that Barclays do anything more. He said that Barclays 
had acknowledged that there was a system fault that was affecting W. And that it had given 
the director conflicting information about this. But he thought it had paid reasonable 
compensation and he said we wouldnt be able to require it to resolve a system issue.
W didnt agree and the director said that he wanted the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. The issue had not been resolved and W wasnt getting something that it was 
paying for.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the director of Ws patience while hes waited for the case to reach me for 
decision. I understand the director was frustrated at not being able to resolve this issue with 
the app. And at the way he was dealt with by staff at Barclays.
Im afraid that Im going to have to agree with our investigator that we cant reasonably 
require Barclays to solve what seems to be a major systems issue. Barclays said in its final 
response that it was unable to give you any timescale on when this will be fixed, meaning 
we cannot provide you with this product at this time. It suggested that W could make use of 
online banking and telephone banking in the meantime.
That in my view made the position very clear to W so it could reach a view on whether it 
could mitigate the issue with Barclays by using other ways to access its account  or 
whether it believed that it needed to make other arrangements. I need to emphasise that 
here Im looking at a complaint by W, which is a separate legal entity to the director. And so, 
Im looking at the inconvenience W had been caused. 
Having done so I consider that the compensation Barclays paid was reasonable taking into 
account what had happened to the time that it issued its final response letter. Im not looking 
at any subsequent events in this complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint in the sense that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
need take no further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman