DRN-3224696
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
dealt with claims on their legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G have had a joint legal expenses insurance policy with DAS for some years. 
They have made a number of claims on the policy. Although they are joint policyholders, its 
Mrs G who has mostly dealt with the claims and the correspondence relating to this 
complaint. So for ease I will refer to her.
Mrs G sought funding for two claims, one against a school and one against a company  
(which Ill call N) that had carried out some work for Mr and Mrs G. Cover was provided 
and solicitors were instructed to act on both claims, but Mrs G was unhappy with the way 
both cases were handled. She asked DAS to provide funding for professional negligence 
claims against the lawyers who had dealt with the cases. 
DAS agreed to set up new claims. Their panel solicitors were unable to act due to conflicts of 
interest, so DAS asked Mrs G to provide details of her own solicitors to assess whether the 
claims had a reasonable chance of success (as required under the policy terms). 
Mrs G continued to correspond with DAS about how the claim relating to the school had 
been dealt with. She had been ordered to pay the other sides costs and DAS didnt agree to 
cover those costs. 
In relation to the professional negligence claim, Mrs G attempted to find someone to carry 
out the assessment. In October 2020 she gave DAS details of a barrister and DAS agreed a 
fee for them to assess the claims. But Mrs G was concerned that the barrister might have a 
conflict of interest and although DAS explained it was for the barrister to comment on that, 
she decided not to continue with that barrister.
Mrs G then provided details of a firm of solicitors to carry out the assessment. DAS agreed 
terms with the solicitors, including an hourly rate to be paid for their work. But the solicitors 
then told DAS they couldnt continue as Mrs G would not agree to their terms. So DAS asked 
Mrs G to find another solicitor who would be able to deal with it.
Mrs G raised a number of complaints about how the claims had been dealt with. DAS didnt 
accept it had been at fault so she referred the complaints to this service.
Mrs G has made previous complaints to this service about how DAS has dealt with some 
issues relating to the claims against the school and against N. Our investigator explained to 
Mrs G that she wasnt able to consider those issues that had been dealt with in the previous 
complaints. In relation to the new issues, she didnt think DAS was at fault.
Mrs G disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision.
Before proceeding with this decision I also explained to Mrs G that I could not consider 
anything that had been addressed in previous final decisions issued by other ombudsmen at 
this service. Although Mrs G said she had provided new information in relation to these 
issues, I didnt consider this was material new evidence that would lead to a different 
outcome. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As set out above, I have explained to Mrs G that I havent considered any complaint issues 
that were dealt with in previous final decisions. Mrs G provided further observations on this 
point which I have considered carefully, but my view remains the same. Her comments 
largely concern the way the litigation was handled by the lawyers acting for her. Thats not 
something that DAS had control over or was responsible for. This includes all the points she 
has raised about the claim concerning the school, and much of the complaint about N. It  
does, however, leave a number of complaint points that I have considered. I will deal with 
each of these separately.
The claim concerning N
Mrs G complains that DAS said she could not remedy the work until the expert report 
had been finalised.
DAS suggested this is a different wording of a previous complaint. Although another 
ombudsman considered a complaint about this claim, that decision covered certain issues 
about delays by DAS and payment for an expert report. In this complaint Mrs G has made a 
specific allegation about something DAS said to her. Im satisfied this is a discrete issue that 
wasnt considered as part of the previous complaint. Im not looking at any other issues 
concerning this claim, which have been dealt with previously.
Ive reviewed the correspondence relating to this. While the report would provide evidence of 
the problems and cost of rectifying them, from the information provided I havent seen any 
evidence DAS told Mrs G she had to obtain it before carrying out any work. I note that in 
recent correspondence with us she says it was a comment by the solicitors, who advised her 
it would be a breach of the policy terms to take action to remedy the problems before the 
value of the claim had been assessed. I cant comment on advice she was given by 
solicitors. In any event, Im not persuaded that DAS made this comment to Mrs G.
Professional negligence claim
Mrs G complains that DAS:
should provide the indemnity limit for this claim to a third party;
should do more to find a solicitor for her;
acted unfairly in relation to the hourly rate offered to her legal expert to carry out the 
prospects assessment; 
should pursue claims against the solicitors itself in relation to breaches of its Working 
Together document.
The policy includes cover for professional indemnity claims. But cover will only be provided if 
the claim has a reasonable chance of success  in other words, if Mrs G can shows its more 
likely than not she will win the case. Thats something which needs to be assessed by a 
lawyer. If a claim is assessed as having reasonable prospects of success, solicitors are then 
appointed to act for the policyholder. DAS agrees terms with the solicitors, in line with its 
Working Together document, including the hourly rate to be paid. The legal costs will then 
be paid when the case has been completed.Mrs G says she found it almost impossible to find a solicitor for the professional negligence 
claims. But to uphold this aspect of the complaint, I would need to be satisfied that this was 
due to some fault by DAS.
As with most legal expenses insurers, DAS has arrangements in place with a panel of 
solicitors firms and would normally pass a claim to one of them to assess whether a claim is 
likely to succeed. But none of them could take on these claims as they had conflicts of 
interest. Its very unfortunate for Mrs G that this was the case. But I wouldnt be able to 
blame DAS for the fact those solicitors couldnt take on the case; its for the solicitors to say 
whether they are able to act. 
Where no panel solicitors are available, normal practice is for the policyholder to find their 
own solicitor. And thats what DAS suggested.
Mrs G provided details of a direct access barrister who was willing to assess the claims. 
DAS agreed terms with the barrister, including an agreement as to how much he would be 
paid. But Mrs G then expressed concerns about whether he might have a conflict of interest. 
She subsequently decided she didnt wish him to deal with the claim. Whatever her 
concerns, that was Mrs Gs decision; there was no failing by DAS in relation to this.
Mrs G later provided details of a firm of solicitors willing to act. Again, DAS agreed terms 
with them to assess each of the claims and, if they had prospects of success, to represent 
Mrs G in pursuing the claims. DAS also agreed an hourly rate with the solicitors.
The solicitors then told DAS they hadnt received information required from Mrs G, and said 
they had explained to her certain requirements which she was not happy to accept. As a 
result, the solicitors said they couldnt take matters forward for her
Mrs G said the solicitors withdrew their services due to concerns that DAS would not pay for 
their services and asked her to accept responsibility for payment of any costs not paid by 
DAS. She was not prepared to sign their client care letter. While Mrs G had some concerns 
that she might end up having to pay some costs herself, DAS role is to assess the insurance 
claim in line with the policy terms and, if the claim is covered, to provide funding for the legal 
costs. The solicitors are not acting for DAS  they act for the policyholder (in this case, 
Mrs G) who is their client. So its standard practice for the solicitors to ask a client to sign 
their client care letter. Thats a matter between the solicitors and their client. Its not 
something DAS has control over. And DAS explained that as long as the policy terms and 
conditions were met, and the terms of appointment adhered to, the solicitors costs would be 
paid. 
Looking at what happened, its clear DAS agreed to instruct first a barrister and then a firm of 
solicitors to carry out an assessment and, if any of the claims had prospects of success, to 
act for Mrs G. In both cases, the rates offered by DAS were accepted by the lawyers 
involved. It wasnt DAS fault that neither proceeded. And DAS confirmed that if Mrs G found 
another solicitor it would seek to agree terms of appointment with them. 
I cant see that DAS has done anything wrong here. As there were at least two legal experts 
willing to work with DAS on the claims, and DAS had agreed terms with them, the claims 
could have proceeded. It would not be usual practice for DAS to place funds up to the 
indemnity limit with a third party and I cant see any basis on which it would be fair to ask 
DAS to do that, rather than providing funding in the normal way, in line with the policy terms.Finally, Mrs G says DAS should itself pursue claims against the solicitors in relation to 
breaches of its Working Together document, rather than simply providing cover for costs 
and expecting her to pursue the claims.
I understand Mrs G has in mind a section in that document that refers to the solicitors having 
adequate levels of professional indemnity cover, and indemnifying both DAS and the 
policyholder for any claims or losses arising out of their breach or failure to keep to the 
terms. While the clause refers to indemnifying both DAS and the policyholder, I think the 
purpose of it is to ensure that, if any issue arises, the solicitors can respond to any awards 
made against them. It doesnt mean DAS is obliged to pursue the solicitors for Mrs Gs 
losses, or that it would be fair to expect it to do so. 
Where a client alleges that their solicitor has been negligent or breached their obligations 
under their contract with the client, the usual way to pursue that would be through a 
professional negligence claim. The policy includes cover for such claims and DAS has 
agreed to provide cover (subject to the policy terms, such as the requirement that any claim 
has reasonable prospects of success, being met). DAS is willing to provide cover and has 
dealt with the claims in line with the policy terms. In these circumstances, it wouldnt be fair 
to expect it to pursue the case on Mrs Gs behalf. 
Subject access request
The service provided during the process was not acceptable
DAS questioned whether this service should consider a complaint about a subject access 
request (SAR) rather than the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). As our 
investigator explained, since this was carried out as part of dealing with Mrs Gs claim on her 
policy its something I can consider.
DAS has set out a chronology of what happened. Looking at the sequence of events Im 
satisfied DAS dealt with the request in a reasonable time. Mrs G did have some difficulties 
accessing documents through an online portal but DAS addressed those problems promptly.
When Mrs G made a further SAR a few months later, DAS didnt provide further documents, 
on the basis it had responded to a request recently, and because the request wasnt made in 
an attempt to understand the personal data held about Mrs G, but to help her with a 
complaint. The ICO advises that a business can refuse a SAR which is unfounded or 
excessive. This might include, for example, where the request is unreasonable, or is 
repeated. Mrs G had recently received the data from the previous request. The professional 
negligence claims were still ongoing and nothing significant had happened in the meantime. 
DAS was corresponding with Mrs G about the claim so she would have been aware of what 
was happening. Although its not for me to determine whether DAS has met the ICOs 
requirements, I can consider whether it acted fairly in declining the request and, taking into 
account the circumstances Ive described, I think it did.
Mrs G has complained that the ink disappeared from documents sent to her by post. She 
hasnt provided evidence of what she received, though I appreciate she says that would 
simply be blank documents. But DAS made various attempts to provide the documents in 
different formats and offered to help her access the online portal. Overall I think the way 
DAS approached this was fair.
Summary
Mrs G has been involved in legal disputes for some time now. I appreciate these matters 
have been very difficult for her to have to deal with and have caused a great deal of distress. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think DAS has been at fault in relation to those 
aspects of the complaint that Im able to consider.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman