DRN-3388954
The complaint
Ms H complains that the Society of Lloyds incorrectly declined a claim on a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms H had a PPI policy that started in 2005. According to the policy schedule, it could pay a 
monthly benefit of £330 a month, for up to 12 months, if Ms H lost her job or was off work 
sick for more than 30 days.
In March 2020, Ms H tried to claim on the policy. Ms H was self-employed as a beauty 
therapist, and said shed had to stop work because of the coronavirus pandemic. She said 
shed stopped work from 15 March, and submitted a claim on 20 March.
On Monday 23 March 2020, the government announced a national lockdown, and on 26 
March made regulations requiring certain businesses to close during the emergency period.
Meanwhile, on 24 March, the underwriters wrote to Ms H saying shed need to complete a 
claim continuation form on or after 15 April, together with evidence that shed received 
universal credit and that she was paying for her mortgage. Ms H provided this information on 
16 April. The underwriter then contacted Ms H to ask if she could get confirmation from HM 
Revenue & Customs that shed ceased trading. 
But Ms H wanted to claim on the governments self-employment income support scheme 
(SEISS). To qualify for SEISS, Ms H needed to declare she intended to continue trading for 
the 2020/21 tax year. Ms H was concerned that ceasing to trade would mean she couldnt 
receive this grant  and as she traded in her own name, it would also prevent her existing for 
tax purposes in future.
The underwriter looked at this, but insisted that Ms H needed to provide confirmation from 
HMRC that shed ceased trading. Dissatisfied, Ms H complained to the underwriter and then 
to Lloyds. Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. Ms H then referred the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint. Initially, he thought that the complaint should be 
upheld. He didnt think the policy required Ms H to show shed permanently ceased trading, 
and that, based on industry good practice, she could provide alternative evidence that shed 
ceased trading. Lloyds disagreed. It referred to decisions on other cases, and also noted 
that Ms H was receiving the governments SEISS grant  which meant she was still receiving 
an income from her business. Ms H had told us shed received five SEISS grants covering 
the period from May 2020 to August 2021. Our investigator reviewed the complaint again, 
and didnt think it should be upheld.
Ms H doesnt agree.
The complaint has been referred to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions that applied to Ms Hs policy said that it would protect her in the 
event of her unemployment. This meant Ms H had to be out of work and receiving the 
correct class of National Insurance credits by reason of unemployment. And she needed to 
be actively looking for work. 
But as Ms H was self-employed, three further conditions applied. She needed to cease 
trading because she couldnt find enough work to meet all her reasonable business and 
living expenses; she needed to have declared this to HM Revenue & Customs; and she 
needed to show shed registered as unemployed with the Department for Work and 
Pensions.
Im satisfied that Ms H couldnt find work  and I see she provided evidence to the 
underwriter that shed successfully applied for Universal Credit. But Lloyds says that Ms H, 
nonetheless, cant claim on the policy as she hasnt declared that shes ceased trading to 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ive thought about this. The reason Ms H couldnt declare the cessation of her business to 
HM Revenue & Customs was because she wanted to claim under the governments SEISS 
scheme: to do this Ms H needed to declare she intended to continue trading. This also 
meant that Ms H continued to receive an income through her business  and SEISS grants 
were taxable as trading income.
With this in mind, Im not satisfied that Ms H met the criteria to claim under the policy. As she 
was in receipt of the grant, she wasnt in a position to tell HMRC that shed stopped trading  
which was one of the conditions for a successful claim. I also note that the monthly benefit of 
this PPI policy was less than the £700 a month she says she was able to successfully claim 
under the government scheme. So if Ms H had declared the cessation of her business in 
order to make a claim on the policy, shed have been substantially worse off.
Ive considered Ms Hs further comments. She says the terms and conditions of the policy 
didnt say anything about receiving government money  and she notes that when she was 
off work sick for a period, she was able to claim on the policy despite receiving government 
unemployment benefits. She also says that the government grant was significantly less than 
her normal income. I have every sympathy for Ms H, and dont doubt shes had a very 
difficult time. But that doesnt change my conclusions  for the reasons Ive explained, Ms H 
still needed to declare shed ceased trading. 
Shes also compared her situation with that of people who were employed. But I understand 
that employees who were furloughed under the governments job retention scheme werent 
able to claim on these policies either  as they were still receiving a wage or salary  and in 
any case that doesnt affect the terms and conditions that applied to Ms H as a self-
employed person.
For the reasons above, I conclude that the underwriter reasonably declined Ms Hs claim. So 
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not going to tell Lloyds to do anything to put things right.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman