DRN-4049128
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain about the administration of their travel insurance policy by          
Great Lakes Insurance SE. Mr and Mrs Ps son, Mr S, is assisting them in bringing their 
complaint. Reference to Great Lakes includes its agents. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr and Mrs P had annual travel insurance underwritten by 
Great Lakes. The policy relevant to this complaint started on 19 December 2020 and 
was extended by three months to 18 March 2022. Mr P declared one pre-existing 
medical condition and Mrs P declared nine pre-existing medical conditions.  
In August 2021, Mr and Mrs P contacted Great Lakes about changes to Mrs Ps health. 
In October 2021, Mr and Mrs P contacted Great Lakes again. Great Lakes called          
Mr and Mrs P on 5 November 2021 to discuss Mrs Ps medical conditions. Ill refer to 
that phone call in more detail below. There were two other relevant phone calls on          
6 November 2021 and 8 November 2021. 
Following their conversations with Great Lakes, Mr and Mrs P proceeded on the basis 
that it had cancelled their policy. They paid £801.78 for a new single trip travel insurance 
policy with another insurer and went on their trip. On their return, they complained to 
Great Lakes as they were unhappy that it withdrew cover. They said that it was difficult 
to get through to Great Lakes when they wished to update it about changes to Mrs Ps 
health. Mr and Mrs P say that Great Lakes sent a renewal notification even though cover 
had been withdrawn. They want Great Lakes to refund all of the premium for their annual 
policy.
Great Lakes said that it was entitled to withdraw cover. It offered Mr and Mrs P a pro rata 
refund of £397.34, backdated to when they last travelled with the benefit of the annual 
policy in August 2021. It also offered compensation of £50 in relation to service issues. 
That wasnt acceptable to Mr and Mrs P.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that Great Lakes 
should reimburse Mr and Mrs P for the cost of their single trip travel insurance policy up 
to the value of the cancellation claim they could have made.
Mr and Mrs P agreed with the investigator. Great Lakes said that Mr and Mrs P hadnt 
made a cancellation claim and asked how it could pay a claim that it hadnt declined. The 
investigator explained that he hadnt recommended that Great Lakes settle a 
cancellation claim. Hed recommended that it cover the cost of the single trip policy      
Mr and Mrs P took out to cover their trip, up to the value of the cancellation claim          
Mr and Mrs P could have made. 
Great Lakes didnt respond further. Mr S asked that Great Lakes also pay interest. As 
there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
 
My provisional decision
On 9 March 2023, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this case. I indicated that 
I intended to uphold the complaint but with a different outcome than had been mentioned 
before. I said:
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which say  
as follows:
Health Declaration
[]
We are unable to provide cover for any pre-existing medical condition(s) where [] you 
are awaiting the results of any tests.[]
Changes to your health after purchasing your policy
If after you purchase your policy, or before booking any new trips, any of the following 
happens:
[]
you are now awaiting a diagnosis, investigation, test results or medical treatment
then you must contact [Great Lakes]. A member of the team will ask you specific 
questions about your medical condition(s).
This may result in an additional premium to allow cover to continue, to add additional Terms 
and Conditions to your policy or to exclude cover for the newly diagnosed condition or for 
the condition that has undergone significant change. 
If we are unable to continue to provide cover [] you will be entitled to make a claim under 
Section 1 (Cancellation) for costs which cannot be recovered elsewhere for trips booked 
prior to the change in health. 
Alternatively, you will be entitled to cancel your policy, in which case, we will refund a 
proportionate amount of your premium.
has Great Lakes acted unfairly?
I intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint but with a different outcome than has been 
suggested before. Ill explain why:    
In general terms, insurers can decide what risks they are willing to cover.             
Mr and Mrs Ps policy provides that Great Lakes may exclude cover in the 
circumstances that arose here. Mrs P was waiting for an MRI in November 2021. 
Great Lakes says that its underwriting decision was that there was no cover for any 
of Mrs Ps pre-existing conditions related to the outstanding tests or investigations 
and that Mrs P should report back when she received the test results. Great Lakes 
was entitled to come to that decision, and I dont think it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in doing so. But thats not what it told Mr and Mrs P in November 
2021. 
Ive listened to the recordings of the phone calls between Mr and Mrs P and     
Great Lakes in November 2021. On 5 November 2021, after taking further 
information from Mrs P, Great Lakes said that it could no longer offer cover. It said 
that the options were to cancel their upcoming trip and make a claim for 
cancellation or cancel the policy and receive a pro-rata refund of the premium and 
be reimbursed for the cost of an alternative, single trip policy up to the value of the 
cancellation costs and within the policy limits.Im conscious that there was a phone call between Great Lakes and Mr and Mrs P 
on 6 November 2021, but the recording provided is incomplete, so I havent heard 
the substance of that call. I understand that Mrs P clarified the position in relation to 
her outstanding medical investigations. 
In the phone call on 8 November 2021, Great Lakes told Mr and Mrs P that there 
was no cover for any pre-existing conditions. That was not in fact the case as there 
was no change in relation to Mr P. The options it offered to Mr and Mrs P were 
slightly different than it had mentioned before in that it said they could cancel their 
trip and make a claim on the policy, cancel the policy and receive a pro-rata refund 
of the premium or travel in the knowledge that their pre-existing medical conditions 
werent covered. Great Lakes didnt mention reimbursing Mr and Mrs P for the cost 
of a new, single trip policy to cover their upcoming trip. 
Based on their phone conversations with Great Lakes in November 2021, I think  
Mr and Mrs P understood that it had withdrawn cover and cancelled the policy, but 
it hadnt in fact done so as it was waiting to hear from Mr and Mrs P about how they 
wished to proceed.
Whilst Great Lakes was entitled to withdraw cover for any of Mrs Ps pre-existing 
conditions related to the outstanding tests or investigations, I think that its fair and 
reasonable for Great Lakes to reimburse Mr and Mrs P for the cost of their new, 
single trip policy up to the value of any cancellation claim Mr and Mrs P could have 
made if they had cancelled their trip in November 2021. Thats because                
Mr and Mrs P reduced Great Lakes exposure to loss when they decided not to 
cancel their trip and make a cancellation claim. I dont think its fair that they are 
penalised for that. Great Lakes should also pay interest on this sum. 
Great Lakes has already offered to pay Mr and Mrs P a pro rata refund of £397.34, 
backdated to when they last travelled with the benefit of the annual policy in   
August 2021. I think thats fair. I dont think that a fair resolution requires that    
Great Lakes pay interest on the pro rata refund of premium. Thats because it was 
offered to Mr and Mrs P in November 2021. They could have accepted it then, but                
Mr and Mrs P didnt tell Great Lakes how they wished to proceed. I can quite 
understand that they wanted to arrange alternative cover and go on their trip but in 
all the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to direct      
Great Lakes to pay interest on the pro rata refund, as I dont think its responsible 
for the delay in its payment. 
Mr and Mrs P asked that Great Lakes reimburse the total cost of their annual 
policy. There are no grounds on which I could fairly direct Great Lakes to do that as 
Mr and Mrs P had the benefit of cover under the policy until Great Lakes decided 
that there was no cover for any of Mrs Ps pre-existing conditions related to the 
outstanding tests or investigations. 
Mr and Mrs P mention that since their complaint, theyve taken out new annual 
travel insurance underwritten by Great Lakes and have declared the same medical 
conditions as before. Insurers may choose to offer different cover under different 
brands. And if Mrs P was no longer waiting for an MRI when the new annual policy 
was taken out, the basis of the risk was different. Mr and Mrs P also complain about service issues. They clearly had difficulty 
contacting Great Lakes in August 2021. Mr and Mrs P tried to contact Great Lakes 
about Mrs Ps medical conditions before a trip in August 2021. They had difficulty 
getting a response. By the time Great Lakes contacted Mr and Mrs P, nine days 
after their e-mail asking for help, Mr and Mrs P were on a trip. I dont think that 
delay was acceptable, particularly as Mr and Mrs P were attempting to ensure that 
their medical conditions were covered before a trip. 
There was also confusion in November 2021. Great Lakes first said that it could no 
longer offer cover then said that there was no cover for any pre-existing conditions. 
Neither of those statements accurately reflected Great Lakes underwriting position 
which was that there was no cover for pre-existing conditions that are related to the 
test Mrs P was waiting for and that all other unrelated medical conditions will be 
covered as long as theyve been screened and accepted. 
I think that the confusion caused Mr and Mrs P distress and inconvenience, as they 
were trying to make sure that they had appropriate cover in place before their trip.  
Great Lakes has offered compensation of £50 in relation to service issues. I dont 
think thats sufficient in this case. I think that compensation of £200 is fair and 
reasonable in relation to Mrs and Mrs Ps distress and inconvenience caused by 
Great Lakes poor service in this case.
Responses to my provisional decision
Great Lakes didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr S responded on                      
Mr and Mrs Ps behalf. He said that Mr and Mrs P accepted the provisional decision and 
he queried the calculation of the redress. 
The investigator explained that the proposed redress meant that Great Lakes would 
reimburse Mr and Mrs P the cost of the single trip travel insurance policy they took out 
with another insurer up to the value of the cancellation claim they could have made on 
their annual travel insurance policy with Great Lakes. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached previously. For the reasons Ive 
explained, a fair and reasonable outcome in this case requires Great Lakes to reimburse 
Mr and Mrs P for the cost of their new, single trip policy up to the value of any cancellation 
claim Mr and Mrs P could have made if they had cancelled their trip in November 2021. Its 
not for this service to calculate the value of the cancellation claim Mr and Mrs P could 
have made; Great Lakes will do that. Great Lakes should also pay interest on this sum. 
I think that Great Lakes offer to pay Mr and Mrs P a pro rata refund of £397.34 is fair and 
that it should also pay them compensation of £200 in relation to their distress and 
inconvenience. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right Great Lakes should pay Mr and Mrs P:
the cost of Mr and Mrs Ps single trip travel insurance policy with another insurer, 
up to the value of the cancellation claim Mr and Mrs P could have made on their annual travel insurance policy with Great Lakes if they had cancelled their trip in 
November 2021,
8% simple interest per annum on the amount calculated as directed above, from 
the date Mr and Mrs P bought the single trip travel insurance policy, to the date of 
settlement, 
£397.34 pro-rata refund of premium it has already offered, if it has not already paid 
this amount, and 
compensation of £200 in relation to their distress and inconvenience arising from 
service issues. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE 
should now take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman