DRN-4094638
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as S, complains about Lloyds Bank PLCs (Lloyds) conduct of 
their Anti Money Laundering (AML) procedure. 
In bringing this complaint, S is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr M. 
 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to the parties, so I wont repeat it in detail. 
Briefly:
S operated two accounts with Lloyds which it used for receiving payments from its 
clients. 
On 25 March 2022, Lloyds wrote to S to say that due to changes to AML regulations, 
S needed to meet certain criteria in order to continue using the two accounts. 
The banks letter outlined the various steps that needed to be followed in the process 
- including, that on 8 April 2022, the bank would send a questionnaire to S which had 
to be returned to the bank by 9 May 2022. 
On 14 April 2022, Lloyds questionnaire was received by S and Mr M completed and 
returned it to the bank. 
Mr M has told us that, concerned about the contents of Lloyds letter, he attempted to 
contact the bank. When eventually, he spoke to a bank employee Mr M says he was 
told S couldnt operate the accounts in the same way as S had done historically. He 
says he was also told that what needed to happen was for individual client accounts 
to be opened. 
Mr M says without having any assurance that Lloyds would continue to provide a 
client account facility for Ss clients, and fearful Lloyds would close them in a climate 
where other banks were less receptive to taking on new business clients, he decided 
to outsource to a third party the administration of the payments by Ss clients. That in 
turn meant Ss clients would no longer make deposits to the Ss accounts with Lloyds 
but to the third-party administrator.
But Ss accounts werent closed on 9 May 2022 as Mr M believed they would be. And 
so, on Ss behalf Mr M complained to Lloyds. In summary, he said; 
oThe bank didnt understand the nature of Ss business and imposed a policy 
that wasnt relevant to that business. 
oLloyds suggestion that to enable them to comply with AML requirements, an 
account for each of its many clients had to be opened was both unattainable 
and impractical. And despite being assured S would receive guidance and 
help, that did not happen which caused worry and stress.  
oThe third party charges a fee of £1000 per month for its service. Lloyds 
should not only apologise but pay compensation equivalent to at least one 
years worth of the cost of using the services of the third party.
Lloyds didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They said the 9 May 2022 date that was 
mentioned in the banks 25 March 2022 letter wasnt a date Ss accounts were being closed. 
Rather, it was the date by which the bank needed a response to the documentation 
proposed sending to S.
As Ss complaint remained unresolved, on its behalf, Mr M referred it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said Lloyds were within their rights to 
require customers to meet AML regulations in order for them to hold certain accounts. She 
didnt think it was possible to conclude that Lloyds had done anything wrong. Therefore, she 
felt unable to recommend the bank compensates S for the costs arising from having to make 
third party arrangements for the collection of payments from Ss clients. 
S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and on its behalf Mr M has asked for an 
ombudsmans review of the complaint. Mr M said  in summary:
oLloyds AML requirements did not take into account Ss membership of an industry 
accreditation scheme for businesses operating within its sector. Especially, given that 
the accreditation is operated by a nationally recognised organisation which 
scrutinises compliance by its members. It is unclear why membership of the 
organisation isnt good enough for Lloyds.
oThe bank left S hanging in a no-mans land, with the threat of closing its accounts at 
any time. He could not simply wait for the bank to close the accounts. So, there was 
no option but to find alternative banking arrangements.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions and for broadly the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
To begin with, I would add that in the same way as other banks, Lloyds have certain legal 
and regulatory obligations that they must carry out including, as the bank indicated, those 
relating to AML. 
However, the way in which Lloyds chose to discharge those obligations is a matter for their 
discretion. It is not for me as ombudsman to tell them how that should be done. That means 
it is not a matter for me whether Ss accredited membership of any industry organisations is 
something Lloyds properly ought to have taken into account in the AML process they were 
conducting for S. What seems to me to be the crux of Ss complaint, however, is that Mr M interpreted Lloyds 
25 March 2022 letter effectively as notification that the bank intended to close Ss accounts 
by 9 May 2022. And fearful of what he believed was the banks intention, Mr M therefore, 
took the decision in April 2022 to engage a third-party provider to administer Ss clients 
accounts.  
Whilst I can understand Mr Ms desire to protect S from the inconvenience that would likely 
be caused if its accounts were closed by Lloyds, I do not think the letter could reasonably be 
interpreted as notice by the bank of an intention to do so. 
Lloyds told S in its 25 March 2022 letter that they would require information from it and to 
that end the bank would send a questionnaire by 8 April 2022. The bank did so. 
The banks letter said:
Its important that you send this back to us by 09 May 2022. If we havent heard from 
you by then, well need to close your account(s).
Its also worth noting Lloyds letter also said:
Theres nothing else for you to do at the moment but its important that you provide 
us with information when we ask for it as well need to close your account(s) if we 
dont hear from you.
The reference to the 9 May was within the context of the date by which S needed to return 
the information  as Mr M duly did in April 2022. 
Mr M said he acted on Ss behalf because he felt Lloyds had left S hanging in a state of 
some uncertainty, facing the threat of closure of its accounts. 
I appreciate Mr M might have considered that was a reasonable way to mitigate the risk to S. 
But since the bank gave no notice to S that they were proposing to close its accounts as I 
would expect to happen with an appropriate notice period, it is difficult to conclude it has 
done anything wrong in this case. So, I dont think I can fairly require the bank to cover any 
of the costs S has incurred by having a third party administer the payments received from its 
clients. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given above and at the risk of disappointing S once more, I do not uphold 
the complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 
Asher Gordon
Ombudsman