DRN-3715351
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has unfairly asked her to repay the outstanding 
balance on her mortgage.
What happened
In 2003 Mrs B took an interest only mortgage with Lloyds Bank PLC for approximately 
£72,000 over a term of 20 years.
Mrs B says the mortgage was mis-sold to her as she didnt need it. We looked into that part 
of her complaint and an ombudsman decided that we couldnt consider its merits because it 
was brought out of time. The ombudsman informed both parties of that decision on             
30 March 2022.
At approximately the same time as being sold the mortgage, Mrs M was sold an investment 
product for a similar amount to the mortgage. She complained about that sale soon after and 
an ombudsman at this service decided she had been mis-sold the investment product and, 
as a result, the money she invested  approximately £72,000 was refunded to her. She used 
£36,000 to partially redeem the mortgage and kept the remainder as savings for 
emergencies. However, that amount was spent by Mrs B over the years that followed, and 
she no longer has the means to repay her mortgage. 
Ive seen from the contact notes Lloyds has provided that Mrs B has made contact with 
Lloyds a number of times to discuss what happens at the end of the mortgage term. From 
those notes, it appears that Lloyds is aware that Mrs B has various health concerns, a 
limited income and wants to stay in the property. Lloyds appears to have discussed 
affordability with her and its notes indicate she would qualify for a retirement interest only 
type product, but she put off making a decision about that in 2020. Lloyds wrote to Mrs B in 
2018 and again in 2020 asking her to contact it about her plans to repay the mortgage.
Mrs B complained to Lloyds in October 2020  it appears from Lloyds notes that was 
predominantly about the mis-sale of the mortgage. But Lloydss final response letter dated 
19 November 2020 also acknowledged she was concerned about what would happen when 
her mortgage term expires in 2023. In that regard Lloyds said it had gathered some income 
and expenditure information from her and explained there are options it can explore further 
with her. It said one of those was a retirement interest only mortgage. But she should contact 
it to discuss the matter. And it also gave contact details for various organisations Mrs B can 
contact for free advice.
Mrs B referred her complaint to us. As explained above, weve already decided that she 
brought the mis-sale complaint too late, but our investigator went on to make a finding about 
Mrs Bs concerns about the end of the term. Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. 
She said she thinks Lloyds has worked within the guidance of the regulator by keeping in 
contact with Mrs B and supplying her with enough information to help her take the next steps 
forward. 
Mrs B, via a third-party representative, didnt accept our investigators findings, so her 
complaint has been referred to me for a final decision. The representative has made several 
submissions in response to our investigators findings, but they relate to the mis-sale of the 
mortgage, not Lloydss actions at the end of the term. The representative has also made 
various comments about why he disagrees with the ombudsmans decision about our power 
to consider the mis-sale complaint. Having considered those comments, Ive seen that all 
those issues were addressed by the ombudsman in his decision. And Ive seen no reason 
that would persuade me to depart from that decision. That means my decision will only deal 
with Lloydss actions at the end of the mortgage term.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mrs Bs complaint, Ive thought about whether its handled her concerns about her 
mortgage term end fairly and reasonably, mindful of the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCAS) guidance to lenders (2013 and updated in 2018).
Mrs B has an interest only mortgage which comes to an end in 2023. Ordinarily Lloyds would 
expect the outstanding balance to be repaid by the end date of the mortgage. But Mrs B 
doesnt have the means to repay her mortgage. And, as outlined above, shes informed 
Lloyds of various health concerns, her limited income and her desire to stay in the property.
The FCAs guidance says lenders should communicate with borrowers approaching the end 
of their mortgage term early and frequently. Having seen the contact that dates back to 2017 
about the end of the term, I think Lloyds has done that, both over the phone and in writing. 
The letters are of a tone and contain the information that I would generally expect  they 
were informative without carrying any undue level of threat. And, during the telephone calls, 
it appears from the notes that Lloyds sought to understand Mrs Bs financial circumstances 
and mentioned options available to her.
The guidance also suggests that its reasonable for lenders to expect borrowers to engage at 
the end of the term about possible solutions. Lloyds notes show that Mrs B has done that by 
contacting Lloyds proactively to discuss the issue. I would expect both parties to engage with 
each other again following the conclusion of this complaint. Lloyds has said Mrs B hasnt put 
any repayment proposals to it so far, but I would expect it to clearly outline to her what 
options are available so that she can make an informed choice. She can also seek 
independent financial advice to help her make a final decision about what to do.
However, I dont think Mrs Bs discussions with Lloyds have reached the stage yet where 
shes had to make a final choice or Lloyds has declined any request she has made. So, that 
isnt something I can decide upon the fairness of here. 
That said, I can see from one conversation in 2020 that Mrs B said shed like to extend the 
mortgage term. That doesnt appear to have been considered by Lloyds to be in her best 
interests and it instead suggested a retirement interest only mortgage  where the balance is 
repayable on the death of the borrower or the sale of the property. I think thats reasonable 
because a simple extension to the current mortgage doesnt address the issue of repaying 
the outstanding balance. But I think thats something Lloyds should reconsider if Mrs B were 
to be able to demonstrate she would have the means to repay the mortgage at the end of 
the extended term.
Overall, while I think Lloyds should fully explore Mrs Bs financial circumstances and outline 
all options available to her, with specific regard to whats happened at the end of the 
mortgage term so far, I think its acted fairly and reasonably.My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman