DRN-3962454
Complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) did not advise him to cancel his mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took early retirement in 2019. He is also 
unhappy with the length of time it took for Lloyds to respond to his complaint. 
Background
In November 2019, Mr K decided to retire early from work, in part, due to being diagnosed 
with a serious illness. Mr K says he received a lump sum of £40,000 from his pension, 
£8,000 of which was used to repay an outstanding loan. In December 2019, Mr K had a 
meeting with branch adviser to discuss his outgoings. He said the advisor at the bank 
seemed interested in either selling him an ISA or some form of savings account. Mr K says 
that, at this time, Lloyds ought to have advised him to cancel his PPI as it was no longer 
valid. Mr K would like Lloyds to refund the premiums he paid from December 2019 onwards. 
 
Lloyds has accepted that it took some time for it to respond to Mr Ks complaint. Lloyds 
explained that due to a PPI deadline set by the regulator in 2019, Lloyds received an 
exceptionally high number of enquiries and complaints in relation to PPI. It had also been 
impacted by the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic so it took much longer than usual to 
respond to Mr Ks complaint. Lloyds therefore apologised for the delay in responding to his 
complaint. However, it has explained that it was Mr Ks responsibility to cancel the PPI if it no 
longer met his needs.  Lloyds added that the PPI policy remained live and covered him until 
he eventually cancelled it, so Lloyds didnt offer to refund him the premiums hed paid from 
December 2019 onwards. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Ks complaint. While she accepted that Lloyds did take a 
long time responding to his complaint, she felt it had apologised and she didnt think 
anything further was warranted for this issue. Furthermore, she explained that it was up to 
Mr K to cancel the policy if he no longer wanted it. She also explained that Mr K could have 
claimed under the accident and sickness elements of the policy, so as Mr K had had the 
benefit of being covered for the entire time the policy was live, she didnt think Lloyds had to 
refund the premiums paid. 
Mr K didnt agree. Mr K reiterated that hed been extremely unwell after November 2019, 
having undergone several operations. Mr K felt that as Lloyds was aware that hed taken 
early retirement, the advisor at the branch should have told him to cancel the PPI rather than 
try to sell him more products. Mr K also explained that he had been a customer of Lloyds for 
30 years and had never had any problems with Lloyds. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint and Ill explain why. 
Firstly, Id like to say how sorry I am to hear that Mr K has been unwell. I also appreciate 
Mr K is extremely disappointed with the level of service he has received from Lloyds and 
understand his strength of feeling regarding this. Given the length of time he has been a 
loyal customer of Lloyds, I appreciate he expected better service from the bank and the 
advisors at his local branch. 
However, when assessing a complaint of this nature I must have regard to the obligations on 
financial businesses. After a policy has been sold, the onus is on consumers to review it to 
make sure it still meets their needs, to amend it if different (or more extensive cover) is 
required, or to cancel it if it is no longer required. There is no obligation on Lloyds to review 
Mr Ks circumstances and the PPI to ensure it continued to meet his needs. I appreciate 
given his long history and working relationship with Lloyds, Mr K may have expected this 
service from Lloyds, but it is not one that it is obliged to offer. 
Ive looked at the terms of the policy that applied to Mr Ks PPI, and can see that as he took 
early retirement, he could not benefit from the unemployment element of the cover at that 
time. But the other elements of cover remained in place, and Lloyds has remained on risk of 
dealing with the accident and sickness elements of the policy. As Lloyds has remained on 
risk and Mr K has had the benefit of having the cover in place, I am unable to compel Lloyds 
to refund the premiums. I appreciate Mr K believes that taking retirement early meant his 
policy had been invalidated. But looking at the policy terms, only the unemployment element 
of the cover ceases on retirement. 
There seems to be no doubt that Mr K was aware he had PPI, hes mentioned making a 
successful claim in 2010 and I understand his mortgage payments were met by the PPI 
between November 2010 and July 2011. So, as explained above, if he didnt want it, the 
obligation was on him to cancel it, or specifically ask for advice in relation to it, to see if it 
provided enough benefit for it to be worth keeping. 
I would add that, while I can see that due to Mr Ks ill health, he had no immediate plans to 
return to work, many people do return to work after long periods of ill health or early 
retirement. So it is not an automatic assumption that a PPI policy ought to be cancelled 
under these circumstances. This has to be decided on a case by case basis based on a 
consumers specific circumstances  so the obligation really is on consumers to make that 
choice or seek specialist advice regarding the matter to help them make an informed choice 
to cancel the PPI or keep it if it does or will be of benefit in the future. I understand Mr K 
subsequently sought independent financial advice and was advised to cancel the PPI.
Overall, I appreciate that it would have been helpful for the branch advisor to remind Mr K 
that he had PPI, which may have prompted him to consider his options. But based on what 
Ive seen, I dont think Lloyds was obliged to do this and this doesnt mean that any 
premiums paid after this point have to be refunded. 
I also agree that there was a delay in Lloyds responding to the complaint. But Lloyds has 
explained why and apologised for the delay. I dont think it needs to do anything more here. 
With all this in mind, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision 
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2023.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman