DRN-3754600
The Complaint
Mr W says that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) (Barclays) didnt fairly or 
reasonably deal with claims under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the CCA)
in relation to the purchase of a holiday product on 6 September 2009 (the Time of Sale).
Background to the Complaint
It looks like Mr W purchased trial membership of a holiday club from a third party (the
Supplier) before going on to trade that membership in and upgrade at the Time of Sale at a 
cost of £14,095 (the Upgrade). And to help finance the Upgrade, he used his Barclays 
credit card.
Unhappy with the purchase, Mr W made claims under Section 75 of the CCA for
misrepresentation and breach of contract using a professional representative (PR) on 
27 November 2018 (the Letter of Claim). As both sides are familiar with the reasons for 
each claim at that time, I wont repeat them here.
On 3 December 2018, Barclays declined Mr Ws claims on the basis there wasnt the right 
arrangement in place to engage Section 75. On the 11th of that month, PR wrote back to 
Barclays to disagree with its analysis.
Barclays then went on to deal with a complaint about its handling of the claim. And it issued 
a final response in January 2019. It thought that it was right to decline Mr Ws claims for the 
reasons it had already given. It also appears to have thought that the claims were out of time 
under the Financial Conduct Authoritys six and three-year rule. But it acknowledged that it 
had asked Mr W for information it didnt need. So, it offered and paid him £50 to recognise 
that mistake.
A complaint was subsequently referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service. It was looked 
at by an investigator who, having not felt it necessary to make a finding on whether or not 
the right arrangement was in place to engage Section 75, thought that both of Mr Ws claims 
were out of time under the Limitation Act 1980 (the LA).
Mr W disagreed with the investigators assessment. And, in summary, he gave the following 
reasons:
1. He wasnt aware that his Barclays credit card was used to pay a different company to the 
Supplier. And as far as hes concerned, he used his credit card to pay for membership of 
a holiday club and for services that werent provided.
2. He wasnt aware that there had been a breach of contract until several years after the 
Time of Sale when, after several attempts, he tried to book holidays and couldnt find 
availability  even during off-peak periods. So, the relevant time limit shouldnt start until 
September 2015.
The investigator wasnt persuaded by what Mr W had to say in response to his assessment. 
So, the complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision  which is why it was passed to 
me.
I issued a Provisional Decision (PD)  which only focused on the outcome of Mr Ws 
Section 75 claims for misrepresentation and breach of contract as the £50 Barclays offered 
and paid to him wasnt in dispute. And, in summary, I wasnt persuaded that the claim for 
breach of contract should succeed while I thought the claim for misrepresentation was made 
out of time under the LA.
Barclays didnt respond to my PD. Mr W disagreed and gave the following reasons for doing 
so:
1. The fact that he paid a different business to the Supplier isnt his fault. He paid for 
membership of a holiday club provided by the Supplier. So, he should be afforded the 
relevant protection under the CCA.
2. He wasnt aware that there had been a breach of contract until several years after the 
Time of Sale when, after several attempts, he tried to book holidays only to find there 
wasnt any availability. So, to his knowledge, the contract between him and the Supplier 
was breached over a number of years rather than at the Time of Sale. And as a result, 
he thinks the time limit to make a claim started in September 2015.
As the deadline for responses to my PD has now been and gone, the complaint has come 
back to me to consider for a Final Decision.
What Ive Decided  and Why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When doing that, Im required by DISP 3.6.4 R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account the:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) ([when] appropriate) what [I consider] to have been good industry practice at the relevant
time.
As I said in my PD, when evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, incongruent or contradictory, 
Ive made my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means Ive 
based it on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available evidence and the 
wider circumstances.
And having done all of that, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld. I realise that 
this will be disappointing for Mr W. But I hope hell understand why thats the decision Ive 
come to.
Before I explain why, I want to repeat what I said in my PD about my role as an ombudsman. 
It isnt to address every single point thats been made to date. Instead, its to decide whats 
fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, Im only 
going to refer to what I think are the most salient points when I set out my conclusions and 
my reasons for reaching them. But, having read all of the submissions from both sides in full, 
I will continue to keep in mind all of the points that have been made, insofar as they relate to 
this complaint, when doing that.Was the right arrangement in place to engage Section 75 of the CCA?
Under Section 75 of the CCA, a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement is a
precondition to claims under that provision. And as I said in my PD, it looks like the 
payments Mr W made to help finance the Upgrade were made to a different company to the 
Supplier  which led Barclays to question whether there was a relevant debtor-creditor-
supplier agreement in place.
But as I also said in my PD, I didnt think it was necessary to make a formal finding on 
whether there was the right arrangement in place to engage Section 75 because, even if I 
were to find that there was a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier agreement in place, I thought 
that Barclays had a defence to the claims in question. And I still think thats the case now.
The Section 75 Claim for Misrepresentation
A claim for misrepresentation against the Supplier would ordinarily be made under Section 
2(1) of the Misrepresentation Act 1967 (the MA). And it was held in Green v Eadie & Ors 
[2011] EWHC B24 (Ch) [2012] Ch 363 that a claim under Section 2(1) of the MA is an action 
founded in tort for the purposes of the LA. So, the limitation period expires six years from the 
date on which the cause of action accrued (see Section 2 of the LA).
Mr W made a like claim against Barclays under Section 75 of the CCA and the limitation 
period for that claim is the same as the underlying misrepresentation claim. And as noted at 
paragraph 5.145 of Goode: Consumer Credit Law and Practice (Issue 68 (April 2022)), 
Barclays may adopt any defence that would have been or would be open to the Supplier, 
including that of limitation.
So, this means that Mr W had six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued 
to make a claim.
The date on which a cause of action accrued is the point at which Mr W entered into the 
purchase agreement. I say this because he entered into it based on the alleged 
misrepresentations of the Supplier. And as he used his Barclays credit card to help pay for 
the Upgrade, it was when he used that card that he suffered a loss.
As a result, I still think the cause of action accrued at the Time of Sale  which means that 
this claim had to be made within six years of that date unless there are grounds to extend 
that time limit in keeping with the relevant provisions of the LA. But as nothing thats been 
said and/or provided so far persuades me there are such grounds, and as this claim wasnt 
made until November 2018, it still looks like it fell outside of the time limit set out in the LA.As I said in my PD, Im not saying that any right that Mr W may have to make this claim has 
expired under the LA. Thats a matter for the courts. But I do think Barclays is entitled to rely 
on the LA as a defence to the claim. And for that reason, I see no reason to now ask 
Barclays to do anything further even if there was a relevant debtor-creditor-supplier 
agreement in place.
The Section 75 Claim for Breach of Contract
The Letter of Claim suggests that the Suppliers breach of Directive 2008/122/EC at the
Time of Sale amounted to a breach of contract. However, a breach of contract can usually 
be defined as the failure to perform any term of a contract  whether written or oral. And as I 
still havent been pointed to specific contractual rights that Mr W lost after the Upgrade, I still 
cant say that theres been a breach of contract that Barclays is likely to be jointly liable for.
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr W said that there had been a breach of 
contract by the Supplier several years after the Time of Sale because:
[He] tried to book holidays with [the Supplier] and could never find anything available even
in off peak periods. [He] paid the Annual Maintenance Fees from 2010 until 2015 when [he]
refused to pay any more money because the service that [he] had paid for clearly wasn't
being delivered at any level whatsoever. Consequently, the Breach of Contract did not occur
immediately to [his] knowledge in September 2009 but over a number of years when [the
Supplier] were not able to provide what [he] had originally paid for.
And in response to my PD, Mr W made more or less the same argument. I know he also 
said that the time limit to make a claim for breach of contract starts in September 2015. But I 
didnt conclude in my PD that this claim had been made out of time under the LA.
As Ive said before, I can understand why Mr W might think that the difficulty he had booking 
the accommodation he wanted to book amounts to a breach of contract. But as Ive also said 
before, that isnt the same as being deprived of something he was contractually entitled to. 
And as his own submissions during the course of this complaint make it clear1 that he could 
book accommodation, just not the accommodation he wanted, in the absence of contractual 
documentation that suggests he was guaranteed accommodation wherever and whenever 
he wanted, I still cant see that theres been a breach of contract for the reason Mr W gives.
1 Mr W said the following in a letter to Barclays in either late 2018 or early 2019:
Since purchasing this membership, I have made numerous attempts to use and enjoy my holidays, but every time I tried to
book I found out that the holiday offers were not discounted.
In addition to this the standard of accommodation was average and could not be described as luxury. Therefore, this product
was totally mis-sold to me and in no way meets the description as presented at the Meeting.
It seems now when using [the Suppliers] Points System, it is never a case of being able to go on holiday where I want to, but
more being limited to where there is accommodation available [].My Final Decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Morgan Rees
Ombudsman