DRN-3889174
The complaint
Ms P complains Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) unfairly closed her bank accounts. 
She also complains they racially discriminated against her. 
What happened
Ms P held a current and savings account with Nationwide. 
In June 2020, she needed a balance enquiry statement showing her account details on 
Nationwide headed paper, she said it was for official purposes. Ms P said she had been 
advised by Nationwides customer service by phone that she could get the same from a 
branch. So, she proceeded to visit a branch. 
Due to Covid-19 related restrictions, before entering the branch Ms P was required to outline 
what services she needed. According to her, a staff member, who I will refer to as C, said 
the branch was unable to provide such a statement, Ms P had received a letter to confirm 
the same and she was told head office would be able to provide it. Ms P said she had no 
knowledge of such a letter and customer service had told her otherwise. 
C told Ms P to provide her account details by writing it on a piece of paper and she would 
generate the letter for her to collect in a couple of days. Due to a previous incident of fraud, 
Ms P said she was reluctant to provide this unless she was inside the branch and speaking 
to a cashier. There was a verbal exchange between Ms P and C. Ms P was given access to 
enter the branch and she used the internal ATM to withdraw money. Unhappy she was 
unable to get what she needed, Ms P said words to the effect of I will shoot head office an 
email about this. Thereafter, she went to another Nationwide branch, spoke to a manager 
and obtained the statement letter she needed. 
C felt Ms P had made a threat of violence to shoot Nationwide staff members and the 
incident was reported via their internal channels. As a result of the incident, Nationwide told 
Ms P they would close her accounts with immediate effect (in 14 days) due to her 
unacceptable behaviour. Ms P complained she had been wrongly accused of a crime and 
she believed she had been treated this way due to her race.
Having investigated the complaint, Nationwide accepted Ms P had made no threat of 
violence, the statement had been misconstrued and taken out of context. However they felt 
C wasnt wrong in raising the matter. But Nationwide said they had carried out a holistic 
review of Ms Ps accounts and it had been said her behaviour had been confrontational and 
intimidating in more than one branch and over an extended period of time. Nationwide 
concluded their relationship with Ms P had broken down irretrievably and they would 
proceed to close her accounts, but they would provide 60 days notice instead. The accounts 
closed in September 2020.
In December 2022, I issued a provisional decision outlining my intention to uphold the 
complaint. I said:
Branch incident in June 2020
Nationwide accept Ms Ps statement was taken out of context and she made no threat to 
shoot their staff. So I dont need to make a finding on this. However, Ms P said she was 
upset that such an accusation had been made about her and she was made to feel that she 
was a violent and dangerous person. Ms P said such an accusation of violence had been 
made due to her race based on harmful stereotypes, meaning she was racially discriminated 
against. 
I need to stress that our service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes 
discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. This is because we are an informal alternative to 
the courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out 
within the Act. However, I can consider whether the business has acted in a fair and 
reasonable manner and in order to do that Ive taken a number of things into consideration 
including the Equality Act 2010.
I consider the accusation raised against Ms P to be serious so I can understand why she 
was considerably upset and hurt by this. She also referenced a well-publicised incident 
concerning the death of a civilian following an interaction with a police officer in the United 
States which had not long taken place before this situation. With that in mind, I can 
understand her genuine fears that had the police been called, matters couldve escalated 
and she couldve been harmed or even killed in any resulting interaction with the police. She 
said she had expressed her feelings to Nationwide when she complained and she felt they 
had failed to take her concerns seriously or considered how the situation made her feel. Ms 
P said she deserved an apology from Nationwide but this was never received. 
I wish to thank Ms P for her honesty and Im sorry to hear how the situation made her feel. I 
acknowledge her comments, the wider social context at the time and why this wouldve 
intensified her feelings and impact on her. However it wouldnt be appropriate for me to 
comment on hypothetical situations about what couldve happened but I have taken it into 
account when considering the overall impact of Nationwides actions on Ms P. What I can 
comment on is what did happen. 
I understand at the time there were restrictions in place at Nationwide branches due to the 
pandemic and they were limiting services to consumers to essential purposes only (although 
their discretion may be used). It would seem in this case, the branch didnt consider Ms Ps 
request to be essential as she had access to online banking and the ATM for balance 
enquiries and thats why they werent willing to provide the letter as requested. However for 
Ms P, it was necessary as it was needed for official purposes and she had been told by 
customer service she could obtain it from a branch. So I can understand why being told she 
couldnt get it wouldve been frustrating for her. Given the second branch was able to fulfil 
her request, presumably having exercised their discretion given why the letter was needed, I 
dont consider it wholly unreasonable that Ms P felt the first branch had treated her unfairly. 
Its likely these differences compounded her strength of feeling on the events complained 
about.
Nationwide has a duty to protect its staff and I expect it to take that duty seriously, it also has 
a duty to treat its members fairly. I note in Cs statement about the incident she comments 
she heard the word shoot and another staff member heard the rest. On that basis, it would 
appear C didnt hear in full what Ms P had said. I find its most likely C heard the words 
shoot and head office and came up with her own conclusions. To my mind, if C had 
believed there was a genuine threat, it wouldve been reasonable for her or any other staff 
member present to attempt to clarify Ms Ps statement to determine whether it was indeed 
one of violence but there is no suggestion this happened. Nationwide accused Ms P of making a serious threat and they maintain C was right to report 
what she heard. However I dont consider Cs follow up actions to be indicative of what a 
reasonable person would expect if they genuinely believed Ms P posed an imminent threat 
of danger. For example, to call the police. Based on the incident report, C confirmed the 
police hadnt been called. In my opinion, that suggests C never thought it was a real threat or 
perhaps there was a possibility she had misheard what Ms P said.  
Ms P has also explained why she was reluctant to provide her account details on a piece of 
paper while standing outside of the branch and in the circumstances, I can understand why 
she may have felt this way given what she said about being subject to an earlier instance of 
fraud. But rather than attempt to de-escalate the situation as per Nationwides policy about 
how to deal with verbal and aggressive behaviour (for example to provide reassurance that 
the account details would be treated with care and in a confidential manner), Cs back and 
forth verbal exchange with Ms P only seemed to aggravate the situation. 
While I cant say with any certainty whether C wouldve handled the request any differently 
for somebody else in identical circumstances, for the reasons explained above, Im not 
persuaded Ms P was treated fairly. 
Closure of the accounts
At this point, I wish to stress that in instances of unreasonable and aggressive behaviour, I 
wouldnt expect financial businesses, such as Nationwide, to tolerate this from their 
consumers. As mentioned above, they have a duty to protect their staff. 
Here, although Nationwide accept no threat of violence had been made by Ms P in branch, 
they confirmed the accounts would be closed due to previous incidences of her 
unacceptable behaviour in that branch and others. They stated their banking relationship 
had broken down.
As part of my investigation, I asked Nationwide to provide more detail about what made 
Ms Ps previous behaviour to be challenging and intimidating as theyve alleged. In 
summary, they said she raises complaints when shes unhappy with the service, she is 
demanding and argumentative, she visits around three or four times a week, her requests 
are labour intensive and she responds poorly when her requests arent met. On the other 
hand, Ms P said she was treated unfairly in the branch in question and she doesnt get a 
similar treatment elsewhere. 
Based on Nationwides policy relating to verbal and aggressive behaviour, there is a clear 
process for employees to follow which involves reporting instances to an internal team. 
However with the exception of the branch incident in June 2020, there is insufficient 
evidence of any other reports involving Ms P. Nationwide said she had been warned verbally 
by a branch manager. They allege she had acted unreasonably in other branches but I 
havent been provided with statements from these said branches. Based on the information 
presented to me, I find there is insufficient evidence of Ms P being warned about her alleged 
behaviour or restrictions placed on the services she can obtain. If a warning had been given 
and her behaviour hadnt changed, I find it wouldve been reasonable for Nationwide to have 
taken further action sooner but theres insufficient evidence they did. On balance, I cant say 
Nationwide took steps to engage constructively with Ms P about her alleged behaviour.  
Overall, I find there is insufficient evidence of a prolonged pattern of Ms Ps alleged 
unreasonable behaviour, over an extended period of time and across a number of branches 
as Nationwide has asserted throughout this complaint. So I question, had the branch incident in June 2020 not occurred, would Nationwide have 
closed Ms Ps account when it did in September 2020 due to her alleged unacceptable 
behaviour. Im not convinced they would have because it wouldve happened already. 
Nationwides account terms say they can end their banking relationship providing they give 
two months notice (60 days). They arent required to provide a reason and I must stress the 
decision to provide banking services is a commercial one. Although not obligated to provide 
a reason, in this case theyve done so. Therefore I find it reasonable for me to consider 
whether its fair, clear and supported by evidence. For the reasons explained above, Im not 
persuaded it is. I dont find Nationwide had sufficient evidence that supported their decision 
to close Ms Ps accounts. 
Given the number of calls and letters from Ms P to Nationwide about it, I can understand 
why she was confused and frustrated by their decision and I will take this into account when 
making an award for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
How to put things right
Below, I will explain what I find Nationwide should do to put things right. However I wish to 
make it clear that in doing so, I havent solely considered the branch incident but all factors 
that I consider to be key including the level of service Nationwide provided after the event 
and the impact of the same on Ms P.
To summarise the key events in this case. Ms P said she was given conflicting information 
as to whether she could obtain the letter she needed in branch, she was prevented from 
going inside and told to provide her account details on a piece of paper while waiting outside 
despite her concerns relating to fraud. She was falsely accused of making a threat of 
violence, Nationwide decided to close her accounts and in my opinion that decision wasnt 
supported by clear evidence. Lastly, despite raising her concerns, expressing how the 
situation made her feel and the allegation of discrimination, it doesnt appear these were 
addressed or taken seriously by Nationwide. 
Ms P said when she complained, Nationwide failed to take into consideration the impact of 
the branch incident and the staff member dealing with the complaint laughed when she 
raised her complaint about racial discrimination. Nationwide have provided copies of their 
calls. 
Having listened to them, I cant hear the staff member laughed. However he told her she 
hadnt been discriminated against. By the time of this call, there is no indication Nationwide 
had investigated the allegation of discrimination so its disappointing he had reached his own 
conclusion without considering it fully or taking into account Ms Ps feelings. Had he done 
so, its unlikely a reasonable business would maintain they have nothing to apologise for 
despite Ms P clearly expressing the impact of this situation after Nationwide admitted she 
made no threat of violence. In a later call, Ms P raised the incident in the USA and she was 
told that would never happen here. I find such a comment wouldve further compounded 
Ms Ps feelings about the situation. I find it demonstrated a lack of empathy and awareness 
of an event so prominent in the media which affected people across the world, not just Ms P.
Ms P has explained being accused of such a serious allegation has had a negative impact 
on her. Shes explained she was made to feel like a dangerous person, a criminal who would 
cause serious harm to others which isnt true - a damage to her reputation and her 
character. She was fearful about police being called, how she might be treated and any resulting impact on her career and further studies. She said she struggled to sleep, felt 
disrespected and her feelings were dismissed. 
I find Ms Ps repeated reference to the case in the USA further demonstrates her strength of 
feeling, concern and her sensitivity about issues of racial discrimination at the time 
(especially as it was so soon after). This can be seen based on her number of calls and 
letters. While I accept Nationwide are not responsible for the actions which led to Ms Ps 
increased sensitivity, I am disappointed to see that when Nationwide knew it had made an 
error, they failed to understand how the error compounded how she already felt and her 
fears. Overall, Im not satisfied Nationwide fully considered the impact of their actions and 
conversations on Ms P.
As part of my investigation, I outlined to Nationwide what Ms P has told our service about the 
impact of the situation and I said I was surprised they hadnt offered an apology or 
acknowledged how it made her feel. In response, they said they didnt have anything to 
apologise for due to her behaviour in their branches and C was right to report the incident. 
This is disappointing as it was another missed opportunity for Nationwide to fully consider 
their actions and the significant impact it had on Ms P.
Ive explained above that I dont find Ms P was treated fairly during the situation in branch. 
Although Nationwide say the incident had nothing to do with their decision to close Ms Ps 
accounts, their actions suggest otherwise. This is supported by the lack of evidence on their 
system that demonstrates theyve considered her behaviour was unreasonable, theyre 
unable to provide the service she requires and communicated the same to her. 
But most significantly, Im not satisfied with Nationwides overall actions and conversations 
with Ms P after the branch incident. As explained above, they failed to fairly consider her 
concerns about how she had been treated and her allegation of discrimination. Also, they 
failed to demonstrate empathy and awareness about how the overall situation had impacted 
her and how their further actions compounded her strength of feeling that she hadnt been 
treated fairly.
Taking everything into account, I find Nationwide should provide a written apology to Ms P, 
including the acknowledgement of how the entire situation made her feel. I also consider it 
fair for Nationwide to pay £1,000 compensation to Ms P for the trouble and upset caused.
Response to the provisional decision 
Ms P accepted the findings however she didnt believe the compensation amount was 
enough given the trauma and emotional stress she experienced having been wrongly 
accused by Nationwide. Nationwide didnt accept the findings but they said they were willing 
to pay the compensation in order to resolve the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms P for her comments which Ive considered. I wish to reassure her that Ive 
carefully thought about what she had told our service and Nationwide about how the 
situation impacted her. My thoughts were outlined in my provisional decision so I wont 
repeat them again. Having done so, I remain of the belief £1,000 is a fair compensation 
amount given the circumstances.
 On the basis I havent been provided with any further information by either party to change 
my decision I still consider my findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Therefore, my final decision is the same for the reasons as set out in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Ms Ps complaint.
To put things right, Nationwide Building Society must:
-Provide a written apology to Ms P as directed above;
-Pay £1,000 compensation to Ms P for the trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Simona Charles
Ombudsman