DRN-2878017
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) declined a debit card transaction.
What happened
On 24 November 2020, Mr A used his Co-Op debit card to make a payment of £57.99 to an 
online mobile phone retailer. Co-Op contacted Mr A by text to confirm the transaction was 
genuine and he replied to say it was. On 25 November 2020, the retailer said the purchase 
was confirmed as OK. He contacted the retailer again on 4 December 2020 and they said 
the payment hadnt been received and the order had been cancelled. 
Mr A complained that Co-Ops processes were unfair  he had the money in his 
account and so the payment should have been made. The phone was a Christmas 
present for his son, so he was keen to find a replacement. And so - he then had to 
buy the phone from another retailer, at a higher price.
Co-Op said theyd referred the payment due to their fraud checks. There were in place to 
protect both the bank and customers from fraud. Their systems were more likely to block 
certain types of payments which research showed there was a higher risk of fraud. And also, 
if the type and amount of payment wasnt typical for the bank account.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said Co-Op had acted reasonably. The 
terms and conditions explained they might decline payments suspected to be fraudulent. 
Theyd texted Mr A and hed replied to say the payment was genuine  and their text 
message said if the payment had been declined, to check with the retailer to see if the 
payment needed to be made again. Mr A had done this  and the retailer told him the order 
was OK  so the cause of the problem appeared to be the retailer, not Co-Op.
Mr A disagreed, he said that as far as he could see, it was unreasonable for Co-Op to refer a 
payment to the retailer just because of a few fraudulent payments in the past. And he also 
said Co-Op shouldve contacted him personally to advise him the payment hadnt been 
made, rather than rely on text messages. He asked that an ombudsman look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a fact that unfortunately, fraud is becoming more and more common in financial services 
 and all banks, including Co-Op, have processes in place to ensure its kept under control  
to protect both customers and banks. Certain types of retailers and payment types have 
been shown to attract a higher level of fraudulent transactions than others  it would appear 
that this payment fell into that category. And  a check on the payment would also be more 
likely if it was an unusual one. 
Co-Ops terms and conditions do contain their right to run such checks as they say: 
well make a payment from your account if you ask us to unless: we suspect 
fraudulent or criminal activity.if we refuse to make a payment, well let you know 
why as soon as we reasonably can, unless the law or any regulation prevents us 
from doing so. If we arent able to tell you in advance, well contact you as soon as 
possible afterwards. You can always call us straight away to ask us why weve 
refused a payment and what you need to do to correct any errors that made us 
refuse it.
I can see that Co-Op detected the payment was flagged as being potentially 
fraudulent and they contacted Mr A by text on 24 November 2020 and this said We 
can see that the card ending XXXX had a transaction YY on ZZZ, £AAA. Please can 
you confirm if this transaction was made by you by replying Yes or No. Mr A replied 
to say it was OK and Co-Op then texted back Thanks for confirming the transaction 
was made by you. If any of your transactions were 'declined' please check with the 
retailer to see if you need to make any payments again, just wait 5 minutes before 
trying your card.
Mr A doesnt dispute that he confirmed that the payment was OK. But what 
happened then was that he checked with the retailer  as suggested by Co-Op - on 
25 November 2020  and the retailer confirmed to him that the order was OK. Mr A 
showed us the chat with the retailer. When he hadnt received anything from them, 
he contacted them again  on 4 December 2020  to find that the order had been 
cancelled. In an ideal world  Mr A couldve checked his bank statement and 
wouldve seen that the payment hadnt been debited to his account - but he didnt. 
But Im not holding that against Mr A  as he had been told by the retailer that the 
order was confirmed.
Mr A has said to us that he thinks Co-Op shouldve followed through with a phone 
call to him  but I dont think its fair to expect that  given the high numbers of 
payments and checks going through every day - and theyd given him clear guidance 
in their text. And hes also said that it wouldve been better to simply decline the 
transaction  as he would then have known where he was and couldve used 
another card. I hear what he says here  but equally, I can see that Co-Op were 
trying to be helpful in only questioning the payment  for some customers, to just 
decline a payment may also be unhelpful. Mr A has also said that it was 
disproportionate for Co-Op to decline transactions for this mobile phone retailer 
because of isolated past instances of fraud. I cant comment on Co-Ops fraud 
systems or what their data tells them about this retailer  I can only say that fraud 
checks are sophisticated and flag potential fraudulent transactions based on the 
criteria Ive described.
To me, it appears that the fault here lies with the retailer  who told Mr A that the order was 
confirmed, and not with Co-Op. Im sorry to see what happened to Mr A, and that he incurred 
additional costs of buying his son a mobile phone for Christmas  but I think that Co-Op 
acted fairly and reasonably here, and I wont be asking them to do anymore.
(continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman