DRN-3564066
The complaint
Mr H has complained about the service issues he experienced with Inter Partner Assistance 
SA (IPA) under his home emergency policy.
What happened
Mr H had an insurance policy with IPA at the relevant time to cover certain emergency 
events which might occur in relation to plumbing, drains and electrics at his home. At the end 
of October 2021, the electricity in Mr Hs home went off in the middle of the night. Mr H 
reported the problem to IPA. Mr H considered it to be unacceptable that IPA couldnt send 
an electrician to review the problem for a number of days. He also considered IPAs 
response to his complaint was unacceptable and IPA paid Mr H compensation of £100.
Mr H complained to this service. Mr H thought that IPA should pay him £1,000 in 
compensation. The matter was investigated, however our investigator decided not to uphold 
Mr Hs complaint. He said that the maximum amount payable per claim of £1,000 had no
connection with appropriate compensation due to any problems that occurred. 
The investigator also considered that, as the policy explained what would happen if a 
contractor wasnt available, he didnt think IPA had acted unfairly in providing Mr H with the 
opportunity to engage his own electrician. Bearing in mind that Mr H said that the problem 
was caused by his electrical supplier, he also concluded that the claim would have been 
excluded from cover in any event. He noted that the policy didnt specify or guarantee how
quickly help could be provided. The investigator thought that the £100 offered by IPA was 
fair for the problems that Mr H had experienced. He concluded that the fault was with the 
electricity supplier and not to do with anything covered by the policy. 
Mr H remains dissatisfied and the matter has therefore been referred to me to make a final 
decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues for me to consider here are firstly, whether under the terms and conditions of the 
policy, it was fair and reasonable for IPA not to have sent out an electrician immediately and 
instead to advise Mr H to instruct his own chosen electrician. Secondly, I need to consider 
whether IPA responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Hs complaint.
My starting point in these matters must be the policy and the relevant terms and conditions. I 
note that the policy states We will organise and pay up to £1000 per claim including VAT, 
call out, labour, parts and materials to carry out an emergency repair;
The policy goes on to say; In some circumstances we may find it difficult to deploy an 
authorised contractor to attend your home or deal with your emergency within a reasonable 
timescale. It then gives examples of such circumstances and states that; In these 
circumstances, you may, with our prior agreement, arrange for your own contractor
to resolve your emergency and we will refund the cost of your contractor up to £1000 inc
VAT less any excess payable, as shown on your certificate. Please provide a fully itemised 
invoice or receipt from your own contractor to support your claim for reimbursement. We will 
only reimburse the cost of the emergency repair applicable under the policy.
In the exclusions part of the policy, it states; - We will not cover the following:  
Disconnection or failure of mains services by a utility company concerned or any equipment 
or services which are the responsibility of the utility company.
Mr H gave an account of the incident and said that he waited until the next day before 
reporting the matter, in case it was a power cut, however the power didnt come back on. 
IPA said they had no electricians available at that point however and that neither of the two 
electrical companies they used could send anybody out for four days. Mr H said that IPA 
didn't try to get anybody else. Mr H considered that hed been placed in danger by having to 
go up and down stairs for two nights to try to resolve the problem. 
Mr H felt that his policy wording clearly stated that hes bought cover to address electrical 
emergencies, and yet IPA simply advised him to find his own electrician and that they would 
compensate for any costs as a result. He said that he didnt see the point of paying for 
insurance when he had to solve the problem himself. By the time his electrician came round 
to investigate, the electricity was working again, and didnt charge Mr H. The electrician 
found that other households nearby had experienced similar problems. The conclusion was 
that the problem had been with the electricity supply. Mr H said that his electrician could 
have charged up to £1,000 under the policy with no guarantee of a successful repair.
Mr H said that he had checked on-line and that there were twelve electrical repair companies 
or engineers within ten miles of his home. He said that IPA; obviously couldn't be bothered 
to try to find anybody. In addition if they had been more professional they should have had 
on their books five or six potential subcontractors which would have greatly enhanced the 
chance of getting someone to me straight away.
 
Mr H said that hed been offered a small amount of compensation which he considered to be 
derisory. IPA increased this but Mr H remained unhappy and said it was not enough. 
Finally, IPA offered £100 as a final offer of compensation. Mr H acknowledged that hed 
verbally accepted this sum and that £100 had been paid. Mr H said that it was only when 
hed received an email from IPA which said that the complaint had now been closed that IPA 
mentioned Mr Hs right to complain to this service.
Mr H was also unhappy about the way in which IPA handled his complaint and that theyd 
relied upon the small print of his policy using the letter of the law and not the spirit; I should 
have realised that would have get out clauses in the small print. I can see therefore see why 
you came to the decision you did.
Finally, Mr H thought that he should have been prioritised for help due to his age and health 
issues. Mr H said that the matter had caused himself and his wife a great deal of additional 
stress. He considered that there had been a total breach of contract; and total disregard for 
very old people being without electricity and heating. He felt that IPA should pay a much 
larger amount of compensation.
Turning to what IPA said in response to the complaint, it acknowledged that Mr H had not 
been happy about the way it had handled this matter. IPAs records show that Mr H initially 
telephoned IPA on Thursday 28th October 2021 and was unhappy that IPA couldnt arrange 
anyone to attend until the following Monday 1st November, particularly as he noted that he was extremely vulnerable; and has this policy in place to take the distress out of emergency 
situations.  The note also shows that Mr H had told IPAs representative that he felt the way 
he was told to get his own electrician was abrupt and quite rude. The notes indicate that the 
representative apologised if this was the case. 
IPA said that operatives are normally asked to prioritise jobs for the vulnerable where 
possible. It said that it sent a template letter following payment of £100 compensation to 
explain the right of the policy holder to complain to this service. IPA also explained the 
procedure they would follow if a contractor had been sent out and it was later identified that 
the problem has been caused by something excluded from cover. They said that the claims 
team would explain to the customer the reason why there would be no further cover in place. 
This was regardless of whether an engineer was sent out originally. Until the engineer 
attended, IPA said that it was often not possible to see if something was or wasnt insurable.
Ive considered all the relevant documents and everything that Mr H and IPA have told us 
about this case. I can appreciate that loss of electricity, especially during the darker evenings 
for more than a short period would have been a stressful and upsetting event, especially for 
an elderly and vulnerable family and I can understand that Mr H will have been genuinely 
concerned for the safety and well-being of himself and his wife.
As Mr H was paying for home emergency insurance, he expected IPA to provide emergency 
assistance when the electricity to his home failed. What is clear however is that the loss of 
electricity wasnt due to IPAs actions. From Mr Hs evidence, the loss of electricity was due 
to an issue under the control of Mr Hs power supplier. Unfortunately, such an event is 
specifically excluded from the policy cover and the power supplier would itself be expected 
to take responsibility for the problem and act promptly once alerted.
Ive also considered whether IPA applied the terms and conditions of its policy fairly and 
reasonably. The terms do allow the insurer to take the approach of allowing the policy holder 
to instruct his own electrician where the insurer finds it difficult to deploy one or to deal with 
the emergency within a reasonable timescale. What I cannot say is that it was unfair or 
unreasonable for IPA to take this approach.
In any event, from the available evidence, Mr H says that he probably suffered loss of 
electricity for two days and two nights. He reported the matter to IPA the day after the first 
night of electricity loss. I can appreciate that if IPA had deployed an electrician that day, then 
the electrician would have been likely to have quickly established that the loss of electricity 
was due to a supply issue. It appears however that the supply was restored prior to the visit 
of Mr Hs electrician which from Mr Hs evidence is likely to have been on the second day or 
night of electricity loss. Im satisfied therefore that even if there had been an intervention by 
IPA, its unlikely that Mr Hs electricity will have been restored sooner than it was.
As for the manner in which, Mr H was spoken to, Ive not received access to any relevant 
telephone recording. Its noted however that IPA apologised if Mr H had been spoken to 
rudely or abruptly. I note that Mr H has ceased cover with IPA as he was dissatisfied with the 
service received. In all the circumstances however, I cant say that IPA applied the terms 
and conditions of the policy in an unfair or unreasonable manner and Im satisfied  that £100 
was fair and reasonable compensation to reflect any service issues experienced by Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint and I dont require Inter 
Partner Assistance SA to do any more in response to it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman