DRN-3279167
The complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt pay them enough 
when they made a claim on Mrs Ps motor insurance policy after a non-fault accident.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Ps vehicle was written-off after a multi-car collision. Admiral offered them 
£14,740 for it - the highest valuation shown in the national trade guides. But Mr and Mrs P 
thought the guides were out of date, as in their view they didnt take into account the effect of 
various major events (such as Covid) on the economy and hence on vehicle prices. They 
said they couldnt find a similar vehicle for the sum Admiral had offered. 
In the end Mr and Mrs P bought a new vehicle that cost over £6,000 more than the sum they 
got from Admiral. They said theyd be content for it to pay them only £3,260 more, as they 
thought £18,000 for their vehicle would be a fair sum. But Admiral didnt increase its offer.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. She thought Admiral had 
offered the market value for their vehicle (as required by the policy) rather than a sum to buy 
a suitable replacement. She said it was fair for Admiral to use the national trade guides to 
establish what the vehicles market value was, as we think thats the most reliable way to do 
it. The investigator pointed out that the trade guide valuations are updated regularly, but as 
there was still no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our settled approach to valuation disputes is that insurers should in most cases use the 
national trade guides to establish what a vehicles market value is. I dont agree with Mr and 
Mrs P that the trade guides are out of date, given that theyre updated regularly, so the data 
used to compile the valuations in them is likely to reflect national trends. 
In the examples of similar vehicles provided by Mr and Mrs P, only one was advertised for 
sale at close to £18,000  and it had exceptionally low mileage. They provided details of one 
advertised at £14,462 that was only six months older than their vehicle - with lower mileage 
 but they thought it was located too far away for them to consider. One of the trade guides 
showed details of seven vehicles registered in 2019 that were similar to Mr and Mrs Ps 
vehicle. Their mileages differed (between 22,000 and 5,486) as did their asking prices, which 
ranged from £15,295 to £13,994. The closest match to Mr and Mrs Ps vehicle was one with 
mileage of 16,999, advertised at £14,999. 
I dont think any of the examples Ive seen support Mr and Mrs Ps view of what their vehicle 
was worth. And Admiral was only obliged by the policy to pay them the vehicles market 
value prior to its loss anyway. I think it did that, and that it acted fairly in relying on the trade 
guides, so I cant uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman