DRN-3549881
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money they lost to a binary 
options investment scam.
As most of the correspondence is from Mr K, Ill treat all submissions as having come from 
him in this decision.
 
What happened
Around October 2017, Mr K was introduced to a merchant called Trade24 by an 
acquaintance. The acquaintance spoke highly of them and showed Mr K how much money 
theyd earned on Trade24s trading platform. Mr K was put in touch with an account manager 
for Trade24 and he was persuaded to invest. 
Between 17 October 2017 to 23 November 2017 Mr K used his HSBC current account to 
make 21 Visa debit card payments totalling just over £48,000 to Trade24. On 24 November 
2017, he paid Trade24 £12,000 via bank transfer. 
In December 2017 Mr K wanted to withdraw some of his profits. Trade24 initially allowed him 
to withdraw funds but explained he could only withdraw a maximum of £5,000 per month. Mr 
K made further withdrawal requests in January 2018 but Trade24 provided excuses as to 
why they couldnt process his withdrawals. He contacted HSBC on 15 January 2018 to help 
him process chargeback claims. 
In the meantime, Mr K received a further £5,000 back from Trade24 in February 2018. 
HSBC processed chargeback claims on Mr Ks behalf in August 2018. Trade24s bank 
defended most of the claims and HSBC made further chargeback representations on Mr Ks 
behalf. These (except for one) were also defended. In total, £26,000 was re-debited from Mr 
Ks account and returned to Trade24s bank in December 2018.  
Mr K complained to HSBC because he didnt think it did all it could to help him. HSBC issued 
its final response stating it didnt have any further options to assist with his chargeback 
claims but recognised it delayed processing chargeback claims for him and paid £200 by 
way of compensation. 
Mr K referred his complaint to this office. One of our Investigators felt that HSBC should 
return all of Mr Ks disputed payments on the basis that the chargeback claims should have 
been more robustly pursued and that HSBC could have prevented the bank transfer. He 
suggested that HSBC pays a further £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset this matter 
caused Mr K. 
Mr K accepted but HSBC did not and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint. It 
said in summary:
A dispute under Visas misrepresentation reason code 13.5 stood no prospects of 
success pursuant to the rules of the chargeback scheme. 
The significant credits Mr K received from Trade24 (£10,000) isnt consistent with a 
scam company. 
The bank transfer wouldnt have triggered HSBCs fraud detection systems because 
it was not unusual based on previous account activity. 
On 1 June 2022, I issued my provisional decision largely upholding this complaint. For 
completeness, I repeat my provisional findings (which form part of this final decision) below:
I have considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback 
Ive first considered that by the time Mr K returned his chargeback paperwork to HSBC, he 
had no available balances left on his trading account. He also didnt provide the specific 
evidence required of the Visa dispute rules which (amongst other things), included; a dated 
screenshot of his trading account showing a balance and that hed tried to withdraw an 
amount equal to or less than the available balance on the same day. So whilst some of Mr 
Ks chargeback claims succeeded because Trade24s bank didnt defend those claims, Im 
not persuaded HSBC had any reasonable prospect of success by escalating Mr Ks claims 
to Visas final stage of arbitration. And thats because Mr K didnt have the required evidence 
for it to do so. 
Fraud prevention 
HSBC is aware of our general position on a PSPs safeguarding and due-diligence duties to 
protect customers from the risk of financial harm due to fraud. We have published many 
decisions on our website setting out these principles and quoting the relevant rules and 
regulations. It is unnecessary to rehearse them again here in detail.
It is common ground that the disputed payments were authorised by Mr K for the purposes 
of the Payment Services Regulations 2009 (the Regulations), in force at the time. This is 
because they were made by Mr K using the legitimate security credentials provided to him 
by HSBC. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accountsand any payments made or receivedto counter 
various risks, including anti-money-laundering, countering the financing of  terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams;
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate its customers were at risk of fraud (amongst other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer; and
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Updated its internal watchlist to include information from credible sources within a 
month of any adverse publication. Credible sources include information published on 
the FCAs watch list or the International Organization of Securities Commissions 
(IOSCO) Investor Alerts Portal. Im satisfied that Trade24 were scammers. I say this because there were several regulator 
warnings published about them more than one month prior to Mr Ks payments. Ive included 
that information below:
9 March 2016  the FCA published a warning about Trade24 
27 September 2016  Ontario Securities Commission published a warning on the 
IOSCO Investor Alerts Portal about Trade24. 
19 May 2017  Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority published a warning on 
the IOSCO Investor Alerts Portal about Trade24
Trade24 were required to be regulated by the UKs Gambling Commission at the time of Mr 
Ks payments and they were not, nor were they regulated anywhere else as far as Im 
reasonably aware.
 
Ive taken HSBCs point that Trade24 returned a total of £10,000 to Mr K but this doesnt 
change my conclusion that they were scammers. Having reviewed the correspondence 
between Trade24 and Mr K, they were trying to keep him on the hook and investing for as 
long as possible. Token pay-outs for further inducement is a common feature of investment 
trading scams. 
As Im satisfied Trade24 were scammers, it would have been reasonable for HSBC to have 
properly questioned Mr K before processing the first payment to satisfy itself that all was 
well.
If HSBC had fulfilled its duties by asking suitably probing questions, there is no reason to 
doubt that Mr K would have explained what he was doing. In such circumstances, whilst the 
bank had no duty to protect him from a bad bargain or give investment advice, it could have 
explained to him the very high risks of getting involved with unregulated and unlicensed 
binary options dealers. It could have also explained its own customer experiences with 
unregulated and unlicensed high-risk investment traders in that customers would often be 
prevented from withdrawing available balances. After all, at that time, there was information 
in the public domainwhich a bank ought to have known even if a lay consumer ought not
about the very high risks associated with binary options trading, including many warnings of 
potential fraud (e.g. Action Frauds June 2016 warning; the European Securities and Markets 
Authoritys July 2016 warning; the Financial Conduct Authoritys consultation paper of 
December 2016; and the Gambling Commissions December 2016 scam warning that an 
unlicensed operator is likely operating illegally; City of London Polices October 2017 report 
noting victims had lost over £59m to binary options fraud; Visas Business News publication 
of October 2017 where it expanded its chargeback scheme rules to cover binary options and 
investment disputes arising from merchants often unlicensed and unregulated deploying 
deceptive practices; and so forth). 
Mr K says that HSBC flagged some of his payments but simply sought to confirm that he had 
authorised the payments and didnt provide him with any warnings. HSBC hasnt provided 
any evidence that would suggest it gave Mr K any meaningful warnings, so Ive concluded it 
missed an opportunity to intervene.
If HSBC had asked Mr K what the payment was for and the basic surrounding context, it is 
likely he would have fully explained that hed been introduced to Trade24 by an 
acquaintance and that everything had been done over the phone and online with his broker. 
HSBC did not need to know for certain whether Mr K was dealing with a fraudulent high risk 
investment trader or investing in a legitimate (albeit highly speculative) product; reasonable 
grounds for suspicion are enough to trigger a banks obligations under the various 
regulations and principles of good practice. I consider there were such grounds here and, therefore, that HSBC ought reasonably to have provided a scam warning in light of all the 
information then known to financial professionals about the risks associated with unregulated 
forex and binary options dealers. 
If HSBC had given a warning, I believe that Mr K would have paused and looked more 
closely into Trade24 before proceeding. There is no evidence that he was willing to take high 
risks or had a history of speculative investments or gambling. It seems more probable that 
he would have made further enquiries into whether or not Trade24 were regulated in the UK 
or abroad. He could have discovered they were not and the various regulatory warnings 
about the risk of unregulated investment scams (see above). In other words, I am satisfied 
that a warning from his trusted bank would probably have exposed Trade24s smoke and 
mirrors, causing him not to invest and preventing any losses.
Even if he had not worked out that this was a scam, it is likely that a warning would have 
alerted him to the common issues arising in relation to binary options and unregulated high 
risk investment dealers, which in turn would have revealed the truth behind his supposed 
brokers (mis)representations  i.e. that they were not really regulated UK investments but 
highly-risky bets more akin to a wager in which the broker must lose if he is to win. So before 
any of Mr Ks payments were actually processed, he would probably have stopped in his 
tracks. But for HSBCs failure to act on clear triggers of potential fraud or financial harm, Mr 
K would probably have not lost any money. 
Contributory negligence
Despite regulatory safeguards, there is a general principle that consumers must still take 
responsibility for their decisions (see s.1C(d) of our enabling statute, the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000).
In the circumstances, I do think it would be fair to reduce compensation on the basis that Mr 
K should share blame for what happened. Ive noted that Mr K was an inexperienced 
investor and had not previously made investments (other than a pension scheme) before. 
But Ive also noted that Mr K wrote to HSBC in April 2018 listing all the adverse information 
hed discovered about Trade24. I think if hed carried out some basic checks (rather than 
trusting the word of an acquaintance alone) hed have likely discovered the adverse 
information about Trade24 prior to paying them. 
I think it would be fair to reduce compensation by 20% on the basis that Mr K should share 
some blame for what happened.
  
Finally, I think HSBC paying £200 for the delays in processing his chargeback claims is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. But Im minded to award an additional £150 because 
despite Mr K complaining about the bank transfer of £12,000, HSBC didnt address this or 
look to recover it at any stage. Its most likely all the funds would have been gone by the time 
Mr K got in touch with HSBC but this still would have had an impact on him, which I dont 
think HSBC has addressed.
 
Responses to my provisional decision
HSBC replied to my provisional decision and said it accepted it on a goodwill basis only. 
Mr K replied to my provisional decision and queried the breakdown of the credits Id quoted 
in my provisional decision as he couldnt recall all the refunds hed had. He also queried the 
interest payment. I provided a breakdown of Mr Ks credits from Trade24, along with the 
chargeback refunds. I also explained that as the payments originated from funds held in Mr 
Ks savings account, the appropriate rate of interest was Mr Ks savings account interest. Mr 
K replied and accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties to this complaint have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from what Ive said. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am mainly uphold this complaint. HSBC UK Bank plc should 
refund to Mr and Mrs K all of their stolen payments  but subject to a 20% deduction for 
contributory negligence.
 
As Mr K received £22,360.16 through successful chargeback claims and pay-out 
inducements from Trade24, these should be deducted from the overall settlement. This 
leaves a total loss balance of £38,000, so 80% of that would amount to an award of £30,400. 
The funds originated from a savings account (paid to the current account through internal 
transfers), so HSBC should add interest to that sum (less any tax properly deductible) at the 
relevant account rate(s) form the respect dates of loss to the date of refund.
HSBC should also pay an additional £150 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman