DRN-3239419
The complaint
Miss M has complained about Cabot Credit Management Group Limited, after a debt 
collector they appointed wrote to her about someone elses account.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with what happened, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In early 2021, Miss M received a letter from the debt collector, about an account belonging to 
another individual who had the same name as her. It turned out that the debt collector had 
run a trace for their customer but had not carried out sufficient checks, so theyd mistakenly 
written to Miss Ms address. The debt collector had been appointed by Cabot.
Miss M complained. Cabot apologised, explained that Miss M just had similar details to the 
actual customer and it wouldnt affect her credit, took the account back from the debt 
collector, and made sure Miss Ms address was no longer on the account.
Our investigator looked into things independently and explained that the complaint would be 
better directed against the debt collector, as they were the ones who ran the trace, changed 
the address incorrectly, and wrote to Miss M. They didnt think Cabot had done anything 
substantially wrong themselves.
Miss M didnt agree. She felt Cabot were responsible for what happened. She was also 
unhappy with the way theyd handled her complaint, and that their investigation had left a 
soft search on her credit file. So the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that it was indeed the debt collector  and not Cabot  who ran the trace, 
incorrectly thought their customer might live at Miss Ms address, and wrote to Miss M.
I appreciate Miss Ms arguments around the debt collector acting as Cabots agents, and 
I do see where shes coming from. But Cabot didnt do anything inherently wrong by 
appointing a debt collector. And we generally award compensation against the business who 
actually did something wrong. Here, its the debt collector who got things wrong by mis-
tracing the account, not Cabot. And the debt collector are a separate business who are 
regulated in their own right, and who we can consider complaints about directly.
I dont think it would be fair  or particularly pragmatic  for me to hold Cabot responsible for 
a different business actions, when we can just look at a case against that other business 
directly instead. I can see that Miss M now has a separate case with us against that debt 
collector, which seems appropriate here.
After Cabot became aware of what the debt collector got wrong, they apologised on their 
behalf, took the account back, directed the debt collector to address the complaint from their 
end, and made sure Miss M wasnt mixed up with their customer anymore. That all seems 
reasonable.
I understand Miss M is unhappy that theres a soft search from Cabot on her credit file. 
Cabot did that search as part of their complaint investigation, so they could see what the 
situation was. And thats reasonable. Its just a soft search, which is only visible to Miss M so 
that she can see whos looked at her file. Its not visible to lenders and wont affect her credit 
score or otherwise cause her any harm.
I also understand that Miss M is unhappy with the way Cabot handled her complaint. For 
example, I understand she felt that their final response wasnt good enough and that they 
took too long. But Im afraid that as our investigator explained, those points fall outside of our 
jurisdiction. Thats because we can only consider complaints about regulated activities  
such as collecting a debt. But handling complaints is not a regulated activity in and of itself. 
So I cannot consider those points. Id also note that were not the regulator and are not here 
to fine or punish businesses.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint against Cabot Credit 
Management Group Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 March 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman