DRN-3423086
The complaint
Ms R has complained about how Paragon Bank Plc has treated her in relation to a hire 
purchase agreement. 
What happened
The circumstances of the complaint are well known to both parties. So Im not going to go 
over everything again here. But I think it would help to summarise the main points. 
Ms R acquired a used car for around £46,000 in April 2017 under a five-year hire purchase 
agreement with Paragon. The cars mileage was around 48,000. It looks like around a year 
and a half later Ms R started having some serious issues with the car and she got back in 
touch with Paragon. There have been various complaints raised. The initial complaints 
related to:
The quality of the car. 
The affordability of the agreement. 
Being forced to enter the agreement by an abusive ex-partner. 
The support received from Paragon. 
It looks like the manufacturer offered to pay 50% of the cost of repairs. But the cost to Ms R 
would have still been substantial. Ms R stopped making payments towards the agreement in 
2018. At this point she owed around £31,000. The car was recovered from a garage in May 
2020 by Paragon and it was sold at auction a few months later. At that point the mileage was 
around 88,000. Ms R raised further complaints relating to:
Having personal possessions in the car when it was sold, which cost nearly £1,000. 
Not being told the car would be sold. 
Being left owing around £17,500 after the car was sold at auction.
Negative impact on her credit file. The agreement defaulted in August 2019. 
Following on from this, Paragon took the decision to write off the debt of £17,500. But Ms R 
wanted the default removed and compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Rs complaints. He didnt think there was enough 
evidence to show the faults with the car made it of unsatisfactory quality. He highlighted that 
it was a used car that had covered nearly 50,000 miles when it was acquired. And that Ms R 
had been able to cover around 40,000 miles. 
Our investigator also thought about the sale of the car at auction. He said he thought 
Paragon had acted fairly by selling it. Itd been unable to reach Ms R. Payments hadnt been 
made for nearly two years, and the car had been left at a garage. He thought it was 
unfortunate the car had been sold with Ms Rs possessions in it. But our investigator thought 
Ms R could have made arrangements to retrieve the items. 
With regards to the debt, our investigator noted Paragon had removed Ms Rs liability and 
had written of a significant sum. He didnt think the default should be removed though as he 
thought it was an accurate representation of what happened. But he noted the default had 
been marked as satisfied, which he thought was fair. 
Finally, our investigator didnt think Paragon needed to take any further action such as 
awarding compensation. 
Ms R came back to say she wasnt complaining about the faults with the car anymore. But 
she did highlight she thought the agreement was unaffordable. And she was unhappy with 
the support offered by Paragon. She was unhappy with the costs shed incurred in 
transporting the car to garages and highlighted storage costs that mightve been payable 
while the car was left at a garage. And that she thinks had Paragon been fairer she may 
have walked away with around £10,000 to put towards another car. 
Our investigator responded to say, in summary:
Ms R was able to pay the agreement for 18 months before the fault with the car, 
which indicates it was affordable. 
Ms R wasnt asked to pay storage costs. 
It was unfortunate Paragon didnt get an inspection but that it wasnt responsible for 
the issues as he thought the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
Paragon wasnt liable for the transport costs as he thought the car was of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. 
Ms R could have retrieved her personal possessions. 
He couldnt see how Ms R would have been left with around £10,000 if shed have 
sold the car herself as she wouldve needed to use the funds to settle the agreement 
with Paragon. 
He thought Paragons decision to clear the debt was exceptional, and he didnt think 
he could ask them to do more. 
Ms R highlighted she was in a really difficult position and requested compensation. She said 
the main complaint points she wanted to pursue were in relation to:
The agreement being unaffordable.
Being unable to retrieve her personal possessions. 
I issued a provisional decision that said: 
I first want to say that Im sorry to hear Ms R has been through a difficult time. It cant have 
been easy, and I thank her for taking the time and effort to bring the complaint to our service.
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend 
any discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. I want to assure 
Ms R and Paragon that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I 
think are the key issues. Our powers allow me to do this.
Ms R acquired the car under a regulated hire purchase agreement, and our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
Things have moved on since Ms R first brought her complaint to our service. She no longer 
wants to pursue the complaint about the quality of the goods or indeed some of the other 
things shes previously complained about. So, for the avoidance of doubt, what Im going to 
mainly focus on in this decision is the most recent points Ms R has said shes unhappy 
about. So Im considering the complaint about the affordability of the agreement and her claim the car was sold with personal possessions in it. But for completeness sake, I do 
agree theres insufficient evidence the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. 
The facts of the case dont point towards that. The car was used with nearly 50,000 miles 
covered when it was acquired. Ms R was able to cover a significant number of miles before 
the fault occurred, indicating the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So this 
means that Paragon cant fairly be responsible for costs off the back of the fault. 
Affordability
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and/or irresponsible 
lending on our website. So Ive thought about this when deciding Ms Rs complaint. 
I think there are two key questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the affordability circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Paragon complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Ms R 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Ms R could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Paragon act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Paragons actions disadvantaged Ms R in any way, Ill go onto consider what I think 
is a fair way to put things right.
Proportionate checks
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out rules and guidance that Paragon is required 
to follow. When deciding to offer finance to Ms R, Paragon was required to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could sustainably repay the 
borrowing. 
The checks that Paragon were required to carry out had to be borrower focused. So instead 
of seeing how statistically likely Ms R was to repay the borrowing, it needed to assess 
whether she could sustainably repay the borrowing, taking into account her personal 
circumstances. And it needed to base its creditworthiness assessment on sufficient 
information.
What is considered proportionate will depend on a number of factors such as (but not limited 
to):
The type, amount and duration of the credit. 
The frequency and size of the repayments.
The total amount payable and total charge for credit. 
The interest rate and any other costs which may be payable. 
Any other potential adverse consequences for the customer arising from a failure to 
make payment. 
So I think the checks needed to take into account Ms Rs personal circumstances. 
In this case, the cash price of the car was around £46,000. There was an £8,000 deposit. 
And Ms R was being asked to pay back around £765 per month for five years. So this was a 
significant commitment. Paragon hasnt told us exactly what it considered prior to offering finance. It said no 
affordability was conducted on the case as Ms R had strong credit scores, low unsecured 
debt and she was maintaining a mortgage. It also highlighted Ms R paid a significant deposit. 
And so the case passed through its affordability matrix. 
Without knowing more about what Paragon looked at, its hard for me to say its checks were 
proportionate. As Ive pointed out, Ms R was being asked to pay back a significant sum over 
five years. Its not clear that Paragon asked what her income was, or whether it carried out 
any sort of verification. Im not sure it could safely conclude Ms R would be able to 
sustainably repay such a significant debt on the basis she had an £8,000 deposit, she was 
paying a mortgage (that Ive not seen evidence of) and had low unsecured debts. Taking into 
account the relevant rules at the time, I dont find Paragon has shown it completed 
proportionate checks. I think it ought to have done more to verify Ms Rs income and asked 
more questions about her expenditure. 
What would proportionate checks have shown?
As, from what I can see, proportionate checks werent carried out before Paragon lent to 
Ms R I dont know exactly what they would have shown. So Ive thought about what it likely 
would have found out had it done so. 
Ms R has provided a copy of a recent credit file, a 2018 P60, along with three months worth 
of bank statements from before she entered into the agreement. Of course, different checks 
may have shown different things. And just because something shows up in the information 
Ms R has provided, it doesnt mean Paragon would have seen it. But in the absence of 
anything else, I think its fair for me to put weight on her documents as an indicator of Ms Rs 
financial circumstances at the time Paragon offered her finance. 
Ive first looked at Ms Rs credit file to see what that tells me. Its a more recent credit file, so 
theres only limited information on there that wouldve been available to Paragon when Ms R 
entered into the hire purchase agreement in 2017. From what I can see, there isnt anything 
on there that would have indicated Ms R wouldnt have been able to maintain her payment to 
the hire purchase agreement, or that she was struggling with any of her commitments. I can 
see a County Court Judgment was issued against Ms R, and other defaulted accounts. But 
these all happened around two or three years after she entered into the agreement with 
Paragon. So this isnt enough in itself to indicate Paragon shouldnt have lent to her in 2017.
Ive looked at Ms Rs P60. This indicates Ms R was paid around £14,600 for the tax year to 
April 2018. Again, as this is the year after Ms R entered into the agreement with Paragon, it 
doesnt tell me the whole story. So Ive next looked at Ms Rs bank statements for the 
months leading up to when she entered into the agreement. 
Ms Rs statement from around January 2017 shows she had over £5,800 paid to her. Of this, 
it looks like around £1,800 is from her wages; around £1,850 from work and child tax credit; 
around £300 from child benefit; and around £1,250 from the department of work and 
pensions (DWP). She also received other payments into her account from various sources 
such as what looks like regular child maintenance payments. 
In the February 2017 statement, Ms R received nearly £2,700. This was around £1,350 from 
wages; around £300 from child benefit; around £500 from work and child tax credit; and 
again payments from other sources.
In the March 2017 statement, Ms R received nearly £3,900. This was around £1,450 in 
wages; around £300 from child benefit; around £500 from work and child tax credit; around £630 from DWP and the balance from other sources, and what looks like a loan of around 
£400. 
So putting aside the loan in March 2017, had Paragon taken steps to verify Ms Rs income, I 
think it likely would have seen in the months leading up to her taking out the hire purchase 
agreement she was receiving, on average, almost £4,000 per month. 
Ive thought about what Paragon would likely have seen if it had asked Ms R about her 
regular expenditure. 
Ive first looked at Ms Rs direct debits because these would be regular committed 
expenditure. I can see Ms R paid her mobile bill; water; energy; DVLA; a credit card and 
another debt. Her direct debits totalled around £500 in January 2017, around £450 in 
February, and around £400 in March. As I said above, it doesnt look like Ms R was paying 
rent or a mortgage at the time, so Ive not included a figure for that. 
Ive also looked at other expenditure that is more likely to be regular. So this could be for 
things like supermarket food shopping, petrol and subscriptions. As I think this is the sort of 
spending Paragon should have likely established had it carried out proportionate checks. Its 
not an exact science. Ms R took out quite a lot of cash, and its not always easy to determine 
what payments are for regular food shopping for example, compared to discretionary 
spending for eating out. It looks like Ms R was spending somewhere between £1,000 and 
£1,500 a month on regular things like supermarket shopping, petrol and subscriptions. 
What this means is that even had Paragon taken steps to verify Ms Rs income, and had it 
asked her more about her expenditure, as I think it should have done, its not clear that Ms R 
wouldnt have been able to afford around £765 per month towards the hire purchase 
agreement. So I dont think I can safely conclude Paragon acted unfairly by granting Ms R 
this particular hire purchase agreement. 
Did Paragon act unfairly in another way?
I think its also important to note Paragon has written off a significant sum, that looks to have 
been fairly owed by Ms R. It wrote off over £17,000.  It was also willing to allow Ms R to end 
the agreement by paying a reduced voluntary termination amount of around £5,000 back in 
October 2020, because it didnt add on the arrears. So, while I know Ms R has been 
unhappy, and shes complained things didnt get resolved sooner, I think Paragon has 
broadly tried to help her. Even if I were to find it made mistakes, I dont consider there would 
be proper grounds to ask it to pay Ms R compensation given it has already effectively 
compensated her such a significant sum by reducing what she owes. 
Similarly, while not something Ms R followed up on more recently, after our investigator sent 
his assessment, she did mention she was unhappy with the impact on her credit file. But 
Ms R stopped paying the agreement at the end of 2018. Paragon communicated with her 
over the next few months about the faults with the car. But as the agreement wasnt being 
paid, and as there wasnt evidence the car was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of 
supply, I dont think Paragon acted unfairly by recording a default in August 2019. Lenders 
are generally required to take those sorts of steps once an agreement hasnt been paid for a 
few months. So I dont find I have I can fairly ask it to remove this. 
Personal possessions left in the car
Ms R has complained her car was sold with personal possessions in it that were worth 
almost £1,000. Our investigator said he didnt think Paragon needed to reimburse her 
because he thought it had acted fairly by selling the car. It had tried to speak to Ms R various times before doing so. He also said Ms R could have retrieved the items sooner given the 
car was in the garage for so long. From Ms Rs point of view, I imagine she is unhappy the 
car was sold before she had the opportunity to retrieve her things. Which I can understand. 
But what I do have to bear in mind is that, other than what Ms R has told us, weve not been 
provided evidence of the items she says shes lost. Its not clear Paragon were ever put on 
notice of the items before the car was sold. And the car was left for a very long time at the 
garage. Finally, given what Ive said above about Paragon effectively compensating Ms R by 
a significant sum through discounting what she owes, I dont think I can fairly direct it to 
compensate her for personal possessions on top of that. The reduction Paragon has offered 
far outweighs the cost of the items Ms R says shes lost. 
Summary
In summary, while Im sorry to hear what Ms R has been through, I dont think theres 
sufficient evidence the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I dont 
consider Paragon unfairly granted finance, or that it is reporting information incorrectly on 
Ms Rs credit file. And given it has offered to remove her liability for the debt and mark the 
default as satisfied, I dont find there are proper grounds to ask it to do more to compensate 
her. 
Paragon responded to say it had nothing further to add. 
Ms R responded to say she didnt earn enough to cover payments. She said she was a 
personal carer at the time, and that she wasnt in receipt of maintenance payments. So she 
didnt agree with the outcome. She said some of the spending on her account was in relation 
to work expenses. 
We wrote back to Ms R to let her know wed looked at her bank statements when 
considering her income and expenditure. But we invited her to send us further information 
such as payslips, evidence of expenses or any other documentation she thinks would help 
demonstrate her financial situation. 
Ms R supplied a 2017 P60 and explained she wanted her deposit back and that she was still 
unhappy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Ms R for providing further evidence. Ive already set out in the provisional decision 
what I think about the various complaint points raised. So Im not going to go over everything 
again. Ms R is still unhappy about the complaint relating to affordability of the agreement. So 
Ive thought about what shes said and provided. 
In relation to the 2017 P60, I have to bear in mind it doesnt show the whole picture of her 
financial situation when she entered into the agreement with Paragon. The P60 only shows 
what she earnt in relation to the particular employer noted on it. Which is why I looked at 
other evidence such as Ms Rs bank statements for the months leading up to her entering 
into the agreement. I thought this better reflected her financial situation. And it showed, on 
average, she was receiving significant sums from various sources. As Ive not been supplied 
sufficient evidence to show she didnt have enough disposable income to afford the 
agreement with Paragon, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision.Therefore, for the reasons given above, Ive set out why I thought Paragon didnt carry out 
proportionate checks when deciding whether to lend to Ms R. But based on the other 
evidence available, I couldnt conclude it acted unfairly when it granted her the finance. 
Paragon took Ms Rs circumstances into account, and agreed to write off a significant sum, 
that otherwise would have been payable. I think this is fair and, while Im very sympathetic to 
the situation, Im not going to direct it to do anything else. 
Ms R has indicated she wants to take things further. I should point out shes not obliged to 
accept this decision. Shes free to pursue the complaint by other means, such as through the 
courts. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Paragon Bank Plc has done enough to put things right for Ms R. Im 
not directing it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2022.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman