DRN-2420172
The complaint
Mr H complains AXA Insurance UK Plc have unfairly declined his buildings insurance claim.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
All references to AXA also include its agents.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Although weather records show wind speeds at the time wouldnt meet the policy 
definition of the storm, I have considered the videos taken at the time by Mr H. I can 
see in the video there did appear to be heavy rainfall, so I can see there were 
adverse weather conditions at the time
The damage reported, leaking from the conservatory roof, could be consistent with 
the sort of damage a storm could typically cause, so Ive looked at the information 
available to decide whether the weather conditions were the main cause of the 
damage
AXAs report says the condition of the roof before the adverse weather has served to 
highlight the issues with seals in the roof  which have perished over time. This isnt 
unusual for this to happen, and adverse weather would serve to highlight the issue
AXA declined the claim. They pointed to an exclusion in the policy that says it doesnt 
cover:
Wear and tear, depreciation, the effects of light or the atmosphere, mould, dry or wet 
rot or fungus and costs that arise from the normal use, maintenance and upkeep of 
your buildings and its contents.
Mr H feels the inspection wasnt properly completed, as AXA assessed the damage 
from ground level and took photos - and didnt get on the roof
However, this isnt unusual. AXA is entitled to rely on the opinion of experts, and I 
dont think they have acted unreasonably here by relying on this report. As I have no 
other information available that says otherwise, I cant say AXAs conclusion is 
obviously wrong
During one of their visits, AXA removed some plaster to inspect the damage. As Mr H 
has said he doesnt want AXA to reattend the property, they have offered to cover the 
costs of having this replaced upon receiving quotes from a contractor of Mr Hs 
choice. I think this seems reasonable in the circumstances, so Im not asking AXA to 
do anything further
AXA agreed a second visit shouldnt have been arranged. They also acknowledged 
there were delays in communicating the outcome of the claim to Mr H. AXA have 
offered £75 compensation and considering the information available to me, I think 
this fairly reflects the inconvenience he has been caused
So for these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 August 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman