DRN-3574709
The complaint
The trustees of a trust, who Ill refer to as A, complain the service they received from 
Jelf Insurance Brokers Limited (Jelf) resulted in A incurring a financial loss.
Any reference in this decision to A or Jelf includes respective representatives or agents.
What happened
A say that in March 2019, they spoke with Jelf about obtaining commercial property 
insurance to cover a property they own abroad  Property B.
A say Jelf guaranteed them it could insure Property B, but they subsequently had to 
chase the progress of this several times over the following months.
Jelf responded in July 2019 saying it was unable to provide cover. By that point it 
was hurricane season at Property Bs destination. A say this made it impossible to 
arrange insurance with another provider at that stage.
Property B was therefore uninsured and subsequently destroyed by a hurricane, 
resulting in a financial loss to A.
A say that in August 2019 Jelf admitted it had previously given A incorrect 
information by saying Property B couldnt be insured and that it shouldve 
approached other insurers at that time who wouldve provided cover. 
A complained to Jelf about its handling of the matter. Jelf didnt uphold the complaint 
so A brought it to this service. To put things right, A wanted Jelf to reimburse their 
losses of $400,000.
Jelf maintains it was unable to provide A with insurance for Property B and that it 
never guaranteed or promised A otherwise.
Our investigator considered the matter and was satisfied insurance through Jelf 
wasnt available in 2019 and hed not seen any supporting evidence that it promised 
A something different. He concluded Jelf hadnt done anything wrong and didnt 
uphold the complaint.
A disagreed, so the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Much of the correspondence A reference to support their testimony in this case 
happened over the phone. Call recordings arent available from either party. Ive 
considered the information that is available in this case when making my decision. 
Jelf maintains it couldnt provide insurance for Property B in 2019. But argues that if it 
could have, it would have, as it would have been in its business interest to do so. 
This seems more likely than not from a business perspective given Jelf would have 
earned a commission. Ive not seen supporting evidence to contradict this, so Im 
persuaded insurance wasnt available for Property B in 2019.
The emails Ive seen between A and Jelf from the relevant time period dont show 
that Jelf guaranteed to provide insurance for Property B as A alleges. Its also worth 
noting that a quote was never obtained so a guarantee of insurance is unlikely to 
have been possible prior to that happening.
The earliest correspondence Ive seen showing the matter was discussed between A 
and Jelf is a call note from May 2019. Ive then seen an email sent from A to Jelf in 
July 2019, requesting an update on progress of obtaining a quote. But this doesnt 
reference any previous chasers or lack of response.
On balance, the evidence simply doesnt support that A first raised the matter of 
obtaining insurance for Property B in March 2019 as they allege  or that they spent 
months chasing the quote thereafter.
A say that by the time Jelf responded in July 2019, it left them in a position where 
they couldnt obtain cover elsewhere as by that point it was hurricane season. But I 
find they had several months before that email to shop around for alternative cover  
prior to hurricane season.
A say they waited for Jelfs response because it had guaranteed them it could obtain 
insurance for Property B and as long-standing customers of Jelf they trusted them. 
But from what Ive seen, Jelf agreed to look into whether insurance was available for 
Property B. It did that and informed A that it wasnt. Im therefore satisfied it did what 
it said it would do with regards to looking into a quote.
As set out above, I havent seen supporting evidence to show A spent months 
chasing the progress of the quote as they allege. And while it seems Jelf couldve 
responded sooner than it did regarding this, I have to keep in mind the responsibility 
to ensure Property B was adequately insured sat with A. And until a contract of 
insurance was in place, Property B wasnt covered, putting it at risk. 
I expect A would have known that, but say they sought cover with Jelf only, due to a 
long-standing relationship. 
While I understand they may not have wanted to go elsewhere because of this, Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen they could have explored other insurance options and 
had the opportunity to do so. Something that on balance, Id have expected them to 
do, much earlier than they did, given the risk of Property B being uninsured, the 
alleged lack of response from Jelf and As own admission about the impending 
hurricane season and the difficulty that poses in obtaining insurance.
But even with all of this in mind, A ultimately chose to wait for a quote from Jelf, 
meanwhile not pursuing other insurance until it was, as they say, too late. 
Im satisfied in the circumstances of this case; it was that choice, made by A, that 
resulted in them not having insurance in place when they needed it. Im aware the 
impact this has had on Property B has been significant, which will understandably be 
very upsetting for A. But from what Ive seen, thats not Jelfs fault in this case. I 
therefore dont hold it responsible for the losses A incurred as a result.
It follows I dont uphold this complaint and wont be directing Jelf to do anything 
further in this case.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or reject my 
decision before 18 August 2022.
 
Rosie Osuji
Ombudsman