DRN-1957405
The complaint
Mrs F complains that Nationwide Building Society, trading as Portman Building Society,
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 2002 alongside a mortgage. 
Mrs F said the adviser she spoke to when applying for her mortgage insisted that she had to
have PPI because she was the sole mortgagor. She says she wasnt given any choice but to
take the policy, even though she didnt need it.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mrs F didnt agree with the 
adjudicators view, so the case was passed to me. On the information that was then 
available to me, I also didnt think Mrs Fs complaint should be upheld.
I issued a provisional decision on 20 May 2020, which forms part of this final decision. I have 
summarised below the findings and conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, which 
forms part of this final decision.
I found that there was very little paperwork available from the time of this sale. But I didnt 
think this was that surprising given how long ago it took place. So, in my provisional 
decision, I needed to decide what I thought was most likely to have happened using the 
limited information available to me. 
Taking account of the policy quotation and sample mortgage application form Nationwide 
was able to provide, I concluded that, on balance, it was most likely that Mrs F was aware 
that the PPI was optional and actively decided to take it.
I also concluded that this was a non-advised sale by Nationwide, which means Nationwide 
didnt need to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mrs F. But it did still need to give her 
enough information for Mrs F to decide if it was right for her. I thought it likely that the 
information Nationwide gave her could have been better than it was. But I said that, from 
what I knew about her circumstances when the policy was sold to her, I didnt think better 
information would have been likely to change her mind about taking it.
So, I provisionally decided that Mrs F hadnt lost out by anything that Nationwide may have 
done wrong when it sold her the PPI policy. I asked both parties to respond to my provisional 
decision with any further comments and evidence that they might wish to provide before I 
made my final decision.
Nationwide responded saying that it continued to think that the policy hadnt been mis-sold to 
Mrs F, but had no further information it wished to provide to me.
Mrs F responded saying that she wasn't given any option regarding PPI and didn't know the 
policy was being added. She said the figures quoted always included the protection and she 
was never given the PPI figures separately.
Mrs F also provided some new information about her circumstances at the time of the sale. 
She said that, in addition to her main, full-time job, she was also employed by two other 
businesses on a part-time basis. And she thought that this might have made it difficult for her 
to claim for unemployment benefit under the policy. In the light of this new information about 
her employment circumstances, Mrs F was asked to provide further, more detailed, 
information and evidence concerning these other jobs she has now said she had at the time 
of the sale. Although Mrs F responded to this request, she didnt provide all the information 
and evidence that was requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would apologise to both parties for the time that it has taken me to reach my final decision 
on this case.
Ive carefully considered the further things Mrs F has said about not knowing the policy was 
optional or that it had been added to her mortgage, and the lack of information she was 
given about the policy at the time. But this hasnt changed my mind about thinking that she 
was most likely to have known the policy was optional and agreed to take it. I still think it 
would be unfair for me to uphold Mrs Fs complaint based only on what she thinks she 
remembers happening some eighteen years ago.
Ive also carefully considered what Mrs F has said about the two additional jobs she now 
says she had when this PPI sale took place. And I think its quite likely that these other jobs 
might have made it more difficult for Mrs F to make a claim for unemployment under the 
policy. But Mrs F hasnt been able to provide the further detailed information and evidence 
which was requested to show she was employed in these other roles at the time of the sale 
and her working hours and level of remuneration she received then. Mrs F also doesnt 
appear to be completely clear on the date at which she commenced work in these jobs. 
So, on the information and evidence that is available to me, I dont think it would be fair for 
me to conclude that these additional jobs meant that the PPI policy wasnt right for Mrs F.
I also need to take account of the fact that this was a non-advised sale. This means that it 
was ultimately up to Mrs F to decide if the policy met her needs, based on the information 
she had been provided with about the policy. And although I think its possible that 
Nationwide might not have specifically informed her that she needed to be unemployed to 
claim on the unemployment cover included in her policy, I think its reasonable to expect 
Mrs F to have realised that this was likely to be the case  based on the normal meaning of 
the term unemployment.
So, on balance, what Mrs S has said in response to my provisional decision, and the 
additional information she has now provided, hasnt changed my mind about not upholding 
her complaint. I still dont think Mrs F is likely to have lost out by anything that Nationwide 
may have done wrong when it sold her the PPI.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2021.
 
Simon Furse
Ombudsman