DRN-2558734
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complained that CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV failed to 
reasonably consider Mr Os claim for dental treatment after he broke a tooth.  
What happened
Mr O is covered under Mrs Os dental policy, which is provided by her employer.  
 
Mr O broke his tooth while on holiday after accidentally biting down on an olive stone. His 
dentist advised the broken tooth would need to be extracted and replaced with a dental 
implant. He contacted CIGNA about making a claim. He believed he should be covered 
under the accidental damage benefit, which offered cover up to £2,500 per year. He was 
disappointed when he was told hed only be covered for the dental implant. The policy limit 
for dental implants is £850 per year. 
Mr O complained that his claim wasnt being fairly considered. He said biting on the olive 
was a dental accident and so he should be eligible to claim the higher policy benefit. CIGNA 
reviewed its decision but concluded that Mr O had been correctly advised that he hadnt had 
a dental accident, as defined by the policy. It explained he was therefore only eligible to 
claim in relation to the dental implant. 
Mr O remained unhappy and so referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator 
considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He wasnt persuaded the incident, which led to 
Mr O breaking his tooth, met the policy definition of an accident. But he noted that Mr O 
may be able to make a claim for his dental implant, but that this would have to be considered 
by CIGNA separately. 
Mr O disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. He noted that 
he could have sought remedial work while still on holiday, which may have cost more than 
the restorative work his dentist had now proposed. He said he and his wife had opted for the 
most comprehensive cover available with CIGNA as they wanted to avoid the situation they 
now found themselves in, where a claim was being turned down because of policy 
limitations. He said it was unreasonable for CIGNA to hide behind its rules - which he said 
he was unaware of prior to his claim - to absolve itself of responsibility for the claim. He also 
said hed not received reimbursement for the dental implant costs. 
CIGNA has since confirmed that Mr Os claim was settled in February 2021 up to the policy 
limit for a dental implant (£850).
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint, largely for the same reasons as our 
investigator. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O feel strongly that theyve been treated unfairly 
and so will be naturally disappointed by my decision. But as Ill go to explain, I dont think 
CIGNA has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions set out which claims will be met by CIGNA and what limits 
to cover exist. Ultimately, its for CIGNA to determine what it will and wont cover. No policy, 
regardless of how comprehensive, provides cover for all events. 
This complaint centres on whether Mr O required dental treatment because of an accident 
as defined by the policy. Under a section entitled What will I be covered for? the policy 
terms set out: 
If a dental accident or emergency takes place in the United Kingdom or overseas, well 
pay for treatment for the immediate relief of pain, swelling or bleeding, for you or your 
dependants covered under the plan. 
Well pay for any necessary corrective treatment for you or your dependants covered 
under the plan. The amount well pay for dental accidents and dental emergencies is 
subject to the limits in the list of benefits. []
Where fully restorative treatment is needed after temporary treatment during a dental 
accident, this is covered within the normal policy terms and conditions and is subject to the 
normal policy limits and requirements.
While Mr O says he was unaware of these rules, Im satisfied that theyre clearly set out 
within the policy terms and conditions and form part of the contract that Mrs O agreed to 
when she took out the cover. 
The policy defines an accident as an unforeseen event caused by external trauma (i.e. an 
external blow to the mouth) and solely as a result of non-self-inflicted direct oral impact to 
your dentition and supporting structures. While I agree it was accidental in an everyday 
sense of the word, I consider CIGNA was reasonable to conclude that Mr O biting on an 
olive stone didnt meet the policy definition of an accident. This is because the trauma 
didnt come from outside his mouth, but rather from inside while he was chewing his food. 
CIGNA has further explained that even if it did consider Mr O had suffered an accident it 
would only cover treatment for the immediate relief of pain, swelling or bleeding under the 
accidental damage benefit limit. While I appreciate what Mr O has said about the potential 
treatment he could have sought while oversees, crucially he didnt get any immediate 
treatment to relieve pain, swelling or bleeding. The subsequent fitting of dental implants was 
restorative treatment and was therefore only covered up to the usual limits for dental 
implants. 
Having carefully considered the policy definition above, I consider CIGNA has fairly and 
reasonably applied the policy terms. So I cant say its acted unreasonably by advising Mr O 
that his claim couldnt be considered under the accidental damage section of the policy. 
CIGNA has advised that it has now settled Mr Os claim under the dental implant section of 
the policy and has paid the full annual maximum benefit of £850. Im satisfied that this is 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
While I can understand Mr Os disappointment that the policy hasnt covered his claim in full, 
I cant say CIGNA has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman