DRN-1820318
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-handled the transfer 
of their current account to a new provider. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three elements to this complaint:
RBS not transferring all the regular payments to the new account
RBS imposing a stop on the one-off transfer of funds to the new account
RBS transferring the account balance to the wrong person on closure
 
I set out below my thoughts on each of these in turn before going on to consider what if 
anything is necessary to put things right.
Transfer of regular payments
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs D instructed RBS to transfer their account to a new bank. This 
included all the regular payments set up on the account. RBS accepted this switch request 
on 29 August 2019 and sent a confirmation letter to Mr and Mrs D. In that letter it set out the 
actions Mr and Mrs D needed to take to ensure their payments were correctly set up on their 
new account.
RBS has said that, because of the type of account held by Mr and Mrs D, it was not possible 
to do a complete switch to a new provider with all the payments transferring. Instead, it could 
only conduct a partial switch, and it was necessary for Mr and Mrs D to make arrangements 
with their new bank to set up their regular payments, or with payees to set up new direct 
debits.
Because the regular payments were not all transferred, some payments were missed by Mr 
and Mrs D, including mortgage payments, and in some cases charges were incurred. 
However, the key question for me to consider is whether RBS was at fault  in particular, 
whether it explained sufficiently clearly how the transfer would proceed, and the actions 
necessary for Mr and Mrs D to undertake.
Its not in dispute that Mr D called RBS to say that he wanted to switch to a new provider and 
that RBS confirmed this in writing. So Ive carefully reviewed RBSs account literature and its 
correspondence with Mr and Mrs D about the transfer to see what information was provided.The account held by Mr and Mrs D with RBS was not a standard current account and was 
not eligible for the current account switching service. In clause 5.2.3(c) of the terms and 
conditions of the account, it specifies that, where a customer wishes to close their account 
(where the mortgage has been released and the facility removed), they are responsible for 
informing third parties with whom they have arranged direct debits and standing orders.
The letter sent by RBS to Mr and Mrs D on 29 August to confirm the account closure stated 
that:
RBS has sent a list of the standing orders, direct debits and bill payments on the 
account to the new bank;
The new bank will contact Mr and Mrs D to ask which payments they want to move 
over to it; and
RBS will continue to make these payments from their account unless the new bank 
tells RBS to stop.
 
Its clear from this letter that Mr and Mrs D needed to inform their new bank about which 
payments should be transferred. Ive also seen a letter to Mr and Mrs D from their new bank 
which repeated what they needed to do to transfer the payments. 
I recognise that the account closure was not conducted by RBS in the way that Mr and 
Mrs D expected. I also recognise the cost and inconvenience this caused Mr and Mrs D. 
However, as the letter sent by RBS to Mr and Mrs D clearly stated the action necessary to 
transfer the payments, which was also confirmed in the letter from their new bank, I do not 
believe RBS can be held responsible for this. Therefore, I do not uphold this element of the 
complaint.
Imposition of a stop on the one-off transfer of funds and Transfer of account balance
In anticipation that payments might be taken from their new account before the account 
transfer was complete, Mr and Mrs D made a one-off transfer of funds from their RBS 
account to their new account. But this transfer was stopped by RBS. As a result, Mr and 
Mrs D say they incurred charges when payments couldnt be made.
When the account was closed, RBS sent the closing balance to a wrong account. This 
resulted in Mr and Mrs D being without their funds for a few days.
RBS has acknowledged both these mistakes. Therefore, my consideration has focussed on 
how to put things right.
I recognise that having the transfer stopped when it was needed to cover payments would 
have been stressful for Mr and Mrs D, and would have required time and effort to address. 
Mr and Mrs D also said they incurred charges from the firms which could not receive 
payment at this time, and that their credit file was affected  though they have not been able 
to provide evidence of this. When the problem was identified, Mr and Mrs D no longer 
needed the transfer to be made as direct debit payments had by that time been established 
with their new bank.
I also recognise that having the closing balance of their account mis-directed would have 
caused Mr and Mrs D significant anxiety, in particular not knowing if or when these funds 
would be recovered. When this problem was identified, RBS took immediate action, 
reimbursed the funds as a temporary measure and recovered the funds the following day.These two mistakes by RBS have caused Mr and Mrs D much distress and inconvenience. 
In the end, the problems have been resolved and I have seen no evidence of direct loss for 
Mr and Mrs D. However, I believe RBS should compensate Mr and Mrs D for the distress 
and inconvenience caused. 
RBS has already paid Mr and Mrs D £350 in compensation for these mistakes. Having 
considered all the circumstances, I believe this amount is reasonable. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs D would like greater compensation. I agree with Mr and Mrs D 
that when a customer instructs a bank to make a transfer of funds or to close an account, the 
customer rightly expects the bank to follow the instructions carefully. That did not happen in 
this case. However, although these events have caused Mr and Mrs D significant distress, I 
believe the £350 paid by RBS as compensation is fair and reasonable.
My final decision
My decision is that the £350 paid to Mr and Mrs D by The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc is a 
fair and reasonable way to put things right  so I do not require it to take any further action. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 July 2020.
Andy Wright
Ombudsman