DRN-2282452
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy about TSB Bank plc (TSB) failing to stop a continuous payment 
on their account. 
They have stated that TSB have provided them with poor customer service when they tried 
to resolve the issue.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P made a purchase via a social media company. They thought it was a one-off 
payment for £3.25. They later found out that they had given this company a continuous 
payment authority which meant that there would be a monthly recurring payment of £89 that 
would be debited from their account. Mr and Mrs P contacted TSB on 2 September 2019 
and explained the above. TSB applied a payment stop and sent Mr and Mrs P a new debit 
card as a precaution. 
However, Mr and Mrs P realised that there was a pending transaction for £89. They made 
TSB aware of this on 16 September. TSB explained that the same company contacted Visa 
directly to get the new card details. As a result, two further payments of £89 were taken on 
18 September 2019 and 18 October 2019. On both occasions, TSB refunded the total 
amount to Mr and Mrs P.A complaint was then raised by Mr and Mrs P to TSB about them 
failing to stop the continuous payment and the poor customer service that they have 
received.   
TSB claimed that they did not make any error and that they would not be able to contact 
VISA directly to prevent any more debits. This is because the recurring payments would 
have been agreed during the original transaction that was made which would have formed 
part of the terms and conditions to a subscription service. Although a payment can be 
reversed, TSB cannot fully prevent the merchant from attempting to process further 
payments again. 
TSB did admit that Mr and Mrs P could have received better customer service and 
compensated them £26, this was to cover the trouble and upset and any expenses that they 
may have occurred. They also gave Mr and Mrs P the option of submitting any evidence of 
any other expenses so that this could be reviewed further. 
One of our investigators here reviewed the above complaint and felt that TSB had acted in 
line with the rules set out by the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR). TSB tried to 
stop the continuous payment and refunded the customers for the two further payments that 
continued afterwards. In regard to the poor customer service issue, the investigator felt that 
TSB tried remedy the situation by admitting they could have done better and by offering the 
customers compensation. The level of compensation TSB offered Mr and Mrs P would be 
considered fair and reasonable in the circumstances relating to the poor service.  
Mr and Mrs P did not agree with the investigators view, they feel that TSB should have 
contacted VISA on their behalf to stop the continuous payment. They continue to remain 
unhappy about the service TSB have provided regarding GDPR difficulties Mr P faced, and 
want TSB to re-train their staff, and amend their policies and procedures. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
By agreeing to a continuous payment authority (CPA), a customer gives the retailer 
permission to take out multiple payments. When a customer gives notice to their card 
provider to stop a CPA, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSR) expect the card 
provider to treat any future payments as not authorised. If they have trouble stopping the 
CPA, the card provider cannot hold the customer liable for this and should provide an 
immediate refund.  
I would say TSB have acted fairly regarding this issue, they tried put a stop to the payment 
and issued a new card to Mr and Mrs P. When TSB was made aware of the two additional 
debits, they refunded the amount to Mr and Mrs P. On that basis, it would be fair to suggest 
that TSB have taken the correct actions which are in line with the guidance set out by the 
PSR. 
I can appreciate the frustration Mr and Mrs P are facing each time a payment is attempted 
and then reversed, I would recommend that they approach the Business thats processing 
the card payments in order to put a definitive stop on any future attempts. 
Also, TSB have already admitted that they could have done better with the customer service 
element, I have reviewed the actions taken by TSB to resolve the issue and determined 
whether it seems fair and reasonable. TSB apologised to Mr and Mrs P and tried to remedy 
the situation. They recognised the trouble and upset that Mr and Mrs P experienced, which 
is why they awarded compensation and covered expenses. The amount of compensation 
seems to be fair and reasonable under the circumstances of the complaint. 
It would also seem fair to cover any reasonable expenses and I can see they have tried to 
do this whilst giving Mr and Mrs P the option of submitting further evidence of any other 
expense. I havent seen anything that would prompt me to look further into TSBs policies, 
procedures and re-training of staff. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I am satisfied that TSB Bank plc have acted fairly on this 
occasion. I will not be asking them to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Afroz Rasool
Ombudsman