DRN-4408959
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs Hs complaint is about a claim Mr W made on their The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mr W says NFU have treated him unfairly.
All references to NFU in this decision include their claims handlers.
What happened
Mr W made a claim on his and Mrs Hs NFU legal expenses insurance policy for help with an 
employment dispute he was involved in. When he claimed he made clear there a time limit of 
90 days to submit an unfair dismissal claim, failing which he would be time barred.
On 30 September 2022 NFU acknowledged the claim and asked for further details. Mr W 
provided these promptly in response. It wasnt until 10 January 2023 that NFU confirmed to 
Mr W that his claim was one which was covered in principle and would be allocated to a 
panel firm to consider. The panel firm contacted Mr W two days later. When Mr W spoke to 
the panel firm, he explained that he had settled his dispute and that the date to pursue a 
claim for unfair dismissal had passed on 20 December 2022. As such he was now time 
barred from pursing it. Mr W also told NFU that hed called in December 2022 to chase the 
progress of his claim but hadnt heard anything in response until January 2023.
NFU accepted theyd made a mistake and not dealt with Mr Ws claim in a timely manner. 
But they also couldnt say their mistake had caused Mr W to miss out on settling on better 
terms or pursing a claim at all, so they offered him £300 in compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused to him. Mr W thought this wasnt enough. He thought NFU should pay 
him £1,000.
Our investigator considered the matter and initially determined that NFU should appoint a 
Solicitor to determine the settlement that Mr W couldve reasonably achieved at the time his 
claim was made and if this was more than Mr W accepted then NFU should pay the 
difference. NFU didnt agree. They made some detailed submissions in response which the 
investigator put to Mr W. Mr W also provided further information about his claim at that point 
and the details of the settlement he reached with his employer. 
Based on that information, the investigator revised her view and concluded that although 
NFU were at fault, Mr W could have chased them more proactively to stress the urgency of 
the matter. Because he didnt do so, she said that NFU couldnt be held responsible for the 
outcome of his claim. She did however say the amount NFU offered was too low and that 
they should pay Mr W £500 in compensation for the delay in dealing with his claim and loss 
of expectation. Neither party agrees with this outcome, so the matter has been passed to me 
to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree that Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
In this case NFU accept they did something wrong, so the issue for me to determine is 
whether what theyve offered to put things right- namely £300 in compensation- is enough to 
properly compensate Mr W for their failure to deal with his claim in a timely manner and at 
least by the expiry of the limitation applicable to unfair dismissal claims.
The parties have made some detailed submissions in this case. NFU has said that at the 
point the claim was reported, Mr W had already completed the ACAS early conciliation 
process. Hed also put together draft Particulars of Claim. In addition, he was aware of the 
deadlines applicable to his claim and that he would need to submit it by the limitation date. 
He didnt however do so. NFU say they were never made aware by Mr W that he was 
considering settling the dispute with his employer or that the terms being discussed between 
them were not acceptable to him. They also say that theyve had no information on what Mr 
Ws claim might have been worth or any advice to determine the merits of it. Because of this 
they take the view that theyre not responsible for Mr W settling the claim in the way that he 
did and that the compensation theyve offered is adequate recognition of their failure to deal 
with the claim promptly in this case.
On the other hand, Mr W says the dispute he had with his employer wasnt negotiated at all. 
He says he received a phone call from his employers representatives saying what hed be 
paid and that was it. Hes also talked about the considerable stress this situation put on him 
and his family as well as the worry about how to support himself and them financially as a 
result of losing his job. He feels that hed done what he needed to do by making his claim 
and chasing NFU in December 2022 and that they should have done more to support him.
Ive thought carefully about what both parties have said. And I agree that this would have 
been a very worrying and difficult time for Mr W. I also appreciate that he told NFU from the 
outset about the limitation applicable to an unfair dismissal claim. But given he drafted 
Particulars of Claim, Im not sure why he didnt file them by the limitation date when NFU 
failed to respond to him. I understand that he might have wanted to see an end to the 
dispute and move on but given the urgency of the approaching limitation, I think it would 
have been reasonable to chase NFU well before it expired and draw to their attention to the 
fact that he needed legal advice or assistance for the situation he found himself in. So, whilst 
I find that NFU were responsible for delays and failing to provide Mr W with legal assistance 
before the expiry of the limitation, I dont think I can hold them responsible for Mr W missing 
the opportunity to make an unfair dismissal claim or achieving a better settlement because 
this doesnt appear to be something he was looking to pursue in any event. If he had wanted 
to, I would have expected to see him filing the Particulars of Claim at Tribunal and chasing 
NFU for urgent assistance in respect of his claim.
Aside from that, neither NFU nor I have any clarity around whether Mr Ws claim had 
reasonable prospects of success under the policy, which meant his claim was capable of 
cover at all, and if so whether it was likely he couldve achieved a better settlement. At this 
point, I dont think it makes much difference because Im not persuaded Mr W would 
necessarily have done anything differently had NFU had his claim assessed sooner. His 
actions in relation to his claim seem to support that.
I do however agree that the compensation offered by NFU is too low. As Ive said above, this 
was a stressful time for Mr W and his family. So NFU should have dealt with his claim in a 
timely manner. The fact that he had to chase them after three months of inactivity isnt 
acceptable. Nor is the fact that he expected to receive help but wasnt offered any within an 
adequate time frame. So, I agree with the investigator that NFU should pay Mr W £500 in respect of this to reflect the delay and loss of expectation.
Putting things right
NFU should pay Mr W and Mrs H £500 for the delays and loss of expectation they caused.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr W and Mrs Hs complaint and direct The National 
Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited to put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman